ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the joint discussion of the Law 34915, Adoption of the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Ukraine on International Legal Cooperation in respect of Crimes Related to the Declining of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 on 17 July 2014 (Tractatenblad 2017, nr. 102) and 34916, Provisions related to the prosecution and trial in the Netherlands of offences related to the bringing down of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on 17 July 2014. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It's certain flight MH17 has been taken down. It is certain that 298 deaths are to be regretted. It is certain that justice must be done to the victims and to the next of kin. For the sake of criminal investigation, the Joint Investigation Team, abbreviated the JIT, was established. This will include Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, the Netherlands and Ukraine. The JIT countries preferred an international tribunal for the UN Security Council. Because this was blocked by a veto from the Russian Federation it has to be over another bow. The JIT countries chose all for national prosecution and trial in the Netherlands. This shows great confidence in the Netherlands. It is a fine compliment, but we must be aware that this also entails a great deal of responsibility. In order for persecution and trial to take place in the Netherlands in accordance with Dutch law, the Netherlands and Ukraine have signed a treaty that is now before us for ratification. This Convention extends the right to prosecute for the Netherlands. Ukraine transfers its jurisdiction to the Netherlands on the basis of the principle of territoriality regarding the bringing down of MH17. The Netherlands can not only prosecute and prosecute suspects of Dutch nationality, but also suspects who do not have Dutch nationality. That all sounds good, but what if the suspect or convicted person simply doesn't show up or isn't extradited by the country he or she is a national of? The latter can become a reality if the person in question has Ukrainian nationality. The Ukrainian constitution prohibits extradition of its own nationals and there may be more countries that are legally restricted to extradition or simply do not cooperate. The question to the Minister is: are there any other countries that are restricted by law to extradition of their nationals who are also in the scope? What about Russia, for example? I'd like a response. Nevertheless, a trial can be held in opposition and can also be condemned in absentia. However, there is a risk that the effective execution of a sentence in the case of a convicted person of Ukrainian nationality will not be carried out. It is, of course, nice that Ukraine indicates its willingness to cooperate. However, the political instability of Ukraine, a country that is also known about corruption, is a matter of concern. Then I come to the question of what guarantees the government can offer that any sentence imposed will actually be enforced. What means of coercion does the Treaty provide for the effective execution of a sentence imposed on Ukraine? Criminal prosecution and trial shall be limited to persons who have actually pulled the trigger or ordered the tractor to be pulled. But the question arises as to why the airspace was not completely closed off. Why did they only opt for a flight ban of up to 32,000 feet? After taking down an Ukrainian Antonov aircraft, it was known that there was a heavy missile system in the wrong hands. This was also known to the Dutch government. The vice ambassador Willems was present at a briefing in Kiev three days before the MH17 disaster, in which this information came up. This information, combined with the range of a Buk rocket, which can be effective at 45,000 feet, should ring the alarm bells, shouldn't it? Then you have to realize that a flight ban of up to 32,000 feet isn't enough? Mr. Chairman. Did the vice ambassador pass on this information to the government for taking down the MH17? What has the Dutch Government done with this information? How is it that there were airlines that decided not to fly over the Ukraine anymore? Apparently, they had picked up signals that there were serious risks. The absence of openness raises suspicions. What has been the role of the Dutch government? Has she been negligent? Is there a failure? This will not come to light in the intended litigation. However, in the first instance, the next of kin, and then Parliament, are entitled to the truth. Hence my question to the Minister to clarify this. I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u5	Madam President. The VVD Group welcomes the submission of the law of approval for the treaty with Ukraine, and of the law of prosecution and trial MH17. The adoption of these two laws will be an important step towards the ultimate trial and punishment of the perpetrators of this terrible crime. The choice of prosecution and trial in the Netherlands has been preceded by a careful process of consultation and decision-making by the most concerned five countries, so that the decision could also be taken jointly by the JIT countries. The choice was: prosecution and trial by a newly established tribunal, or national prosecution in and through the Netherlands. We are aware of the situation and I do not need to repeat it here. In the end, it led the Dutch government to ask the JIT countries to make their preferences known. On the basis of the preferences, the circumstances, the Russian veto, the opinion of the Public Prosecutor and after weighing relevant aspects, the Dutch Government has also expressed a preference for national prosecution in and through the Netherlands, embedded in international cooperation and support. This means that the decision of the JIT countries was taken jointly. Mr. Chairman. For the purposes of prosecution and trial in the Netherlands, the Netherlands and Ukraine have appointed a number of subjects on which agreement has been reached in the bilateral treaty for approval. These are agreements in a number of areas: the transfer of criminal proceedings by Ukraine to the Netherlands regarding the taking down of flight MH17, the possibility of interrogating or hearing any suspects via a video link, and the transfer of the execution of any prison sentences imposed. With the transfer of criminal proceedings by Ukraine, as a country in which flight MH17 was taken down, to the Netherlands, there is no doubt that the prosecution and trial in the Netherlands may include all of the perpetrators, regardless of their nationality. This was an important condition for Australia and Malaysia to agree to the chosen criminal proceedings. The Dutch commitment is of course aimed at arresting identified suspects, and where possible being extradited to the Netherlands. Can the government give an indication of the situation with regard to the identification of potential culprits, I ask the Minister, now that the recent formal step has been taken to actually hold the Russian Federation liable? Mr. Chairman. Whether the extradition of suspects will succeed must of course be awaited, especially in the case of suspects who are Ukrainian or Russian nationals and who are resident in their own countries. Probably they cannot be extradited because the Ukrainian or Russian constitution prohibits the extradition of its own nationals. The chance that these suspects will voluntarily go to the Netherlands will therefore hardly be more than theoretical. Therefore, the possibility of trial by video link is extremely important here, yes, decisive for the prospect of effective criminal proceedings. In the explanatory memorandum, the government has rightly indicated that it assumes that the hearing of both witnesses and suspects by video connection will be very often required during the upcoming trials. Earlier, however, the Dutch government was still very reluctant about trial by video link, as reflected in earlier statements made in the complement to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, in 2002 and 2008, as well as in the EU legal aid agreement in 2000. These statements by the government meant that in Dutch case law no use would be made of the possibility of hearing suspects by videoconference. The explanatory memorandum to this legislative proposal indicates that this approach has actually been overtaken by new technical developments and legal developments. The Treaty with Ukraine now explicitly provides for the possibility of video interviews. However, the Minister writes that the government will still consider whether the retention of these declarations in the case of this legal aid is still desirable. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like these statements to be withdrawn without delay, including formally. Maintaining these obsolete statements makes it easy to doubt whether the Dutch government itself is fully convinced of the admissibility of the use of the video media. That would be fundenes Fressen for any lawyer who understands his profession. Let's not be naive. Every mistake, every bit of fog that will linger, will be used ruthlessly by the suspects and their counselors to escape the dance. Can we soon hear from the government what it is going to do about this risk? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Cut. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. When I had the madness of World War II, which had erupted a century before, working on me in an old West Flemish trench on 17 July 2014, my phone reported that a new war in eastern Europe caused new madness. Above East Ukraine a passenger plane, on its way to Kuala Lumpur, had just crashed, probably shot out of the sky; it was full of Dutchmen. The shady civil war in Ukraine, which had recently broken out after months of unrest and rebellion, but for most people here still far from their bed, was suddenly in the middle of our living room. As the names of passengers became known, it became clear how much we are connected through family members, friends, acquaintances and colleagues in this country. Here in this Chamber we lost our colleague Willem Witteveen, who had gone with his wife and daughter to Indonesia for a long-awaited holiday. Many of us were also connected by other lines to the people who died in a war they had nothing to do with, guiltless victims of a man-made disaster, as I called it the day after the disaster on the Dutch radio. I had shortly before been on behalf of the Council of Europe in the disintegrating country for talks with the new government, with the colourless parliament and with concerned citizens in Kiev and Lviv and in Donetsk, in which region the physical surpluses of 196 Dutch and 102 people with another hometown were scattered among the smoking remains of what once was MH17. The Dutch government undertook the difficult task of ensuring that the victims could be rescued and repatriated as quickly and as worthy as possible from an area in which the mutual violence of government forces and rebels flared over and over again. I myself contacted my parliamentary colleagues in Ukraine and Russia to ask them to at least use their influence not to add to the terrible drama and at least to allow relatives to say goodbye to what was left of their loved ones. Everyone promised help and everyone did their best, but before we saw the first cases unloaded on Eindhoven Air Base, days of desperate waiting and increasing distress. War does not rhyme with respectful action and barbarism does not match civilisation, it turned out once again. And yet, it had to be and so it had to be, the Prime Minister promised, I think on behalf of all of us, that we would not rest until possible perpetrators and responsible persons were tracked down and tried. The war there should not become an excuse to leave it here. People aren't collateral damage. The Prime Minister, the government and the people, we all knew that it would be a huge challenge to take action and achieve justice. It was not only said by the Netherlands, but by the entire international community. He had, through the United Nations Security Council, five days after the disaster in Resolution 2166 demanded that those responsible for this incident be heroed to account and that all States cooperate fully with efforts to establish accountability. The way in which such a process of justice should be carried out has been the subject of intensive consultation by the most concerned countries in particular since the disaster. The approach presented today is a thoughtful and under conditions most likely best choice. It is noted that Ukraine, which has primary jurisdiction over trial on the basis of the territoriality principle, fully transfers its right to prosecute offenders and those responsible for bringing down MH17 to the Netherlands. As a result, the criminal proceedings before a Dutch court will be able to do justice to all victims, regardless of their nationality. We thank the Ukrainian Government and the Ukrainian people for their willingness to transfer their jurisdiction to another country in this exceptional case, and we hope that in due course residents of Ukraine will be satisfied with this far-reaching decision of their authorities. Can the Minister tell us when this treaty, signed almost a year ago by the Justice Ministers Blok and Petrenko, will be ratified by the Verchovna Rada in Kiev? Are there any questions on the Ukrainian side about this unique transfer of sovereignty, or is there any understanding that a torn Ukraine is in fact not and will be able to adequately judge a crime committed on its territory? Can the Minister also explain to us why it had to be so long before this House could consider this important treaty and now have to hold this plenary debate with the government without any committee consultation? I'd have liked to see that different. If this House agrees to this treaty today, and my group is in favour of it, an important step will be taken to fulfil what we promised in 2014: The Netherlands will not rest before the perpetrators of the attack on the occupants of MH17 have been tracked down and tried. But the road is still long and full of obstacles. Now that the Joint Investigation Team's investigation says that the plane was taken down by a Buk missile, removed from Ukrainian territory, but from the 53rd Air Defense Brigade of the Russian army, perpetrators and responsible persons in Ukraine and Russia must be sought. But Ukraine says it has no actual jurisdiction in the east of the country. With rebels there is no contact as far as I know and Russia denies any form of involvement. Another major problem is that, should those responsible be detected, both countries have no constitutional right to extradite their nationals to the Netherlands. Therefore, if it comes to a search and trial, those convicted will not come to the Netherlands to serve their sentences. The prison sentences allocated to them will have to be served in one of those countries, under the law in force there and under the regimes in force there. How problematic does the Minister consider this settlement to be? Madam President. If suspects and witnesses are found, their interview will therefore almost entirely have to be done via videoconferencing. My group believes that this has been well thought out and that this approach can work. Can, because it's the first time we've done it like this. Can the Minister explain again how he thinks we're going to work this out? Where are the thoughts and witnesses heard, under what circumstances and with what guarantees of a fair trial? It won't be easy. Is this also being contacted with the de facto authorities in Eastern Ukraine? Should it be possible to restore the rule of law in that part of Ukraine in the future, will there be any agreement on this? And are there any contacts with the Russian authorities about a possibility of actually hearing witnesses and trial of suspects, should they be in Russia? May I ask the Minister, however cold it may sound, to do expectations management? Passenger planes have been shot out of the air before, but it rarely came to proper criminal treatment. The Lockerbie process, which was about blowing up Scotland by a Libyan bomb from an American passenger aircraft with 259 passengers, is an exception. No proper trial followed after a Siberia Airlines flight with 78 occupants was brought down by a Ukrainian rocket in 2001. This did not happen after insurgents in Abkhazia in 1993 fired three Georgian traffic planes with a total of 136 occupants from the air. No criminal proceedings followed after an Iranian Airbus with 290 occupants was shot down by a rocket of an American Navy ship in 1988, nor after a Korean passenger aircraft with 269 passengers was shot down by a Russian fighter aircraft in 1983. The same applies to the Italian aircraft with 81 passengers, which was probably shot down in 1980 by or with the knowledge of France. All these disappointing experiences call for thoughtful expectations management on the part of the government. False hope must be avoided. But, Madam President, it is absolutely important that we take this step today to enable criminal prosecution at least. Our promise to the next of kin requires that we do the utmost to do justice. In this context, I would like to make a few comments on another course of law which the government is examining. That is the state's responsibility for an international tort of a state against one or more other states. That is a not often used figure in international law. Recently, the Netherlands, together with Australia, held the Russian state liable for its involvement in taking down flight MH17. Russia has been requested to come into contact with the Netherlands and Australia with the aim of finding a solution that does justice to the enormous suffering and damage caused by the taking down of MH17. In his letter to Parliament on 25 May, the Minister for Foreign Affairs wrote that submitting a judgment to an international judicial organisation could be another step. Although there is no formal relationship between the criminal proceedings that will be possible through the Treaty to be ratified today and the state liability claimed, there is a link. It is precisely because, unfortunately, it is uncertain whether the planned criminal proceedings could actually take place in full force, that it is not unwise to seek redress in other ways as well. The figure of State liability offers some opportunities for this, as it appeared after the blow-up in 1985 by the French secret service of the Greenpeace ship Rainbow Warrior in the port of Auckland, New Zealand. The Greenpeace ship participated in international protests against French nuclear tests on the Polynesian island of Moruroa. The Dutch photographer Fernando Pereira was killed by the French bombing of the Rainbow Warrior. In the end, France paid compensation to New Zealand for "all the damage it has suffered" through the state liability procedure. With Greenpeace and Fernando Pereira's family, the French state made separate damages arrangements. So the figure can work. Madam President. Following years of preparations, the so-called Articles on Responsibility of States for Internationally Wrongful Acts were adopted for notification by the United Nations General Assembly in 2001. In doing so, the possibility was left open to include the relevant articles later in an international treaty. It hasn't come to that. The Netherlands, too, has not so far been in favour of such an international treaty on state liability. I ask the Minister whether the developments surrounding the search for redress regarding the MH17 damage have changed in this respect. Or is the Netherlands still of the opinion that it would be better to leave the relevant articles to the international tribunal of state practice and doctrine? Madam President. If we really do not want to leave any possibility untapped in the legitimate desire to find justice, then we still need another legal action. Ukraine can also be called upon for an international tort. After all, Ukraine was responsible for not completely closing its airspace after the outbreak of violent confrontations, while the Ukrainian authorities were clear that aircraft were being shot from rebel territory and the rebels had weapons reaching high in the air. On 14 June of that year, a Ukrainian transport plane was taken down by them. A week before that, a military cargo plane was hit and a military transport helicopter was hit. The ceasefire of which the new President, Poroshenko, had given up high in Strasbourg on 26 June during his speech to the Council of Europe, was torn apart for a few days, which meant that further escalation of violence could be expected. Especially after another military cargo plane was shot out of the air on 14 July and a fighter plane was hit by an airplane from another plane on 16 July, all signals in East Ukraine were on dark red. All these signals, together with the fact that a number of international airlines had already independently considered that it was too dangerous to continue flying above the area, should have resulted in the complete closure of the airspace over Eastern Ukraine. At least that was what aviation experts from the Netherlands and Ukraine judged. However, the Ukrainian Ministry of Transport never considered it because it did not take into account that the weapons held by the rebels could also be used for passenger aircraft. The question whether such a failure by the Ukrainian authorities can be regarded as an international tort and whether this can justify a claim based on State liability towards Ukraine is therefore legitimate. Can I ask the Minister why such a state liability has not yet been invoked against Ukraine? Can he tell us if and, if so, when it is likely to happen? Madam President. In conclusion, the SP Group supports the government's efforts to bring perpetrators and those responsible for the MH17 drama to justice and supports the present treaty with Ukraine on the transfer of jurisdiction to prosecution in this particular case. The other route of state liability is also worth a try, with Ukraine in addition to Russia being held liable for a possible international tort. Given that all the procedures that have been initiated so far are useful and necessary, but none of them will produce any results in the foreseeable future, my group also wants to see otherwise the States involved in the MH17 disaster talking about ways at least and very partially to satisfy all those who have lost their loved ones and who will spend the rest of their lives facing that loss. To them, governments and parliaments have an expensive duty to do everything they can to bring about the bottom line, to track down perpetrators and those responsible, to try and punish them, and otherwise to do everything possible to make the lives of the next of kin even a little more bearable. Our compliments to the government so far, but there is still much to do on the long road to entitlement for the guiltless victims of a disaster that should never have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u8	I have an enlightening question for Mr. Kox. He's talking about Ukraine's state liability for non-closure of airspace. But what if the Netherlands had all that information and didn't do anything with it? After all, the Netherlands already had information that there was heavy artillery. What about the liability of the Dutch state? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u9	I think that is a very different form of liability, which Parliament does not need to talk about. If individuals feel affected by actions by the Dutch state or airlines, they can make the way to court. So far, relatives have abandoned it. I think they got rid of that for good reason. The first task is to complete the criminal process. That's hard enough already. As I said, my compliments to the government that at least the exercise can begin. It's gonna be a huge exercise to do it. Secondly, there is the path of state liability. It has not been used very often, but it is a path which may lead to any result, as I mentioned with the Greenpeace example, and which could thus lead to satisfaction, in this case financial satisfaction for the victims. My proposal is to extend that to Ukraine as well. The other question of liability lies with the victims. That's what they're gonna do. So far I have no reason to believe that the Dutch Government has played a part in this. Here's what's clear. 1. Those who shot the plane out of the sky are the culprits. They have to go to jail, to put it mildly. 2. There have been people responsible for something happening. That must also be considered in criminal proceedings. 3. There are two states which, in my opinion, have not acted as they should have acted. That is where the figure of the international tort will have to be looked at, if that is what we are doing. I have already said: do expectations management, because the past shows that there are not so many opportunities. In any case, let us not make people believe that there are many other ways. But it is always the right of next of kin to look for another course of justice, but Parliament does not need to talk about that, because we have already arranged that. Our group looks forward to the Minister's response with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Kox. I call Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. Four years ago, we wished each other a good recess at the end of the last session, as we will do today. A few days later, on July 17, a shock of disbelief and bewilderment went through the country after taking down the MH17 over Ukraine. 298 people were killed, among them our colleague Willem Witteveen. My group appreciates the many efforts made by the government following the disaster in a number of successive steps. First of all, the transfer of the remains of the victims to the Netherlands, followed by the investigation of the Research Council into the disaster and the investigation of the Joint Investigation Team that led to the holding of responsibility of the Russian Federation. The legislative proposals before us today are a further step in the process of finding and prosecuting suspects in order to do justice to victims and their next of kin. Both legislative proposals can count on the full agreement of my group. My group briefly addresses the main points raised by the two legislative proposals and asks a single question to the Minister. It has been agreed by the so-called JIT countries that the prosecution of suspects will take place in the Netherlands under Dutch law. To this end, a treaty has been drawn up with Ukraine, whereby that country transfers its right to prosecute to the Netherlands. Ukraine will transfer suspects on its territory to our country. However, this does not apply to suspects of Ukrainian nationality because this is contrary to the constitution of the country. Although disappointing, this will have to be accepted. The PvdA Group appreciates the government's search for the next best solution, which I would like to mention, and which has been found in the possibility of using video trial. From the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal and the answers to questions in the Lower House, my group has concluded that the requirements of the ECHR can be met and that it is up to the court to decide on the use of this form of trial. Unfortunately, a suspect may refuse to cooperate. That goes against our sense of justice. For next of kin, it can be incredibly important to be able to see people suspected of shooting their loved ones, though not face to face, but at least via a video connection. Can the Minister explain again why a consent requirement has been agreed? Is this an express wish of Ukraine and, if so, what arguments does the country have for it? Or does it result from conditions, guarantees or case law of the ECHR? Or are there any other considerations that make the consent requirement inevitable? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. During the examination of the bill in the Lower House, the Minister promised to look again closely at whether nothing had been overlooked at this point and to come up with a letter in a few months' time. Of course, my group is very interested in the content of that letter and we ask the Minister to send it to this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Another point in the treaty is the possibility, a Ukrainian suspect who has been convicted in the Netherlands, of having his sentence served in Ukraine. There is something to be said for this, but it cannot be that in practice this can lead to a lower sentence. Can the Minister indicate how Ukrainian criminal law relates to the Dutch? Are there differences and, if so, which ones are they? Is there a risk of a convicted person getting away with a lower sentence than that imposed by the Dutch judge? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. So much for my group's questions. We see the decision-making process on these two legislative proposals as an important step in a process that is far from coming to an end. We wish the government every success in all the next steps to be taken, and we are confident that it will do so with the same tenacity and care it has shown so far. That is what we owe to the victims and their next of kin. Mr. Chairman. My group awaits the Minister's response with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. From this Chamber we follow with great interest the debates in the House of Representatives on the aftermath of the terrible disaster with the MH17. For the next of kin it is a never healing wound and we too, as Mrs Vlietstra just said, were almost exactly four years ago affected by the loss of our colleague Willem Witteveen. For everyone who mourns and sympathizes, but also in the interests of the international legal order, discovering the true cause and the trial of the guilty is crucial. Unfortunately, the circumstances cannot be more harsh, with a crime scene abroad, where there is a conflict with a powerful neighbour and where geopolitical consequences are lurking. But my group is pleased that the cabinet is doing everything it can. The treaty we are discussing is an important step in this direction. GroenLinks strongly supports the Convention and the Implementing Act. They contribute to the impact of international cooperation to detect and bring to justice the suspects. However, our group would like to know whether the agreement with Ukraine is sufficient or whether we are also trying to get cooperation off the ground with other countries. We can imagine that, in the current circumstances, this is difficult with Russia, but we would like to know what the Minister's ambitions and efforts are at the moment. The Minister has already indicated in the Lower House that there must be concrete new facts to deal with this. At the same time, the Minister said that we already have legal aid cooperation with Russia, so perhaps he can explain that further. Of course, we have the results of the Joint Investigation Team's investigation. Where does this fact now lead in cooperation with Russia? My group supports the government's efforts to hear and judge suspects in person as much as possible. The Netherlands has even made a statement to the second additional protocol of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters that it will not hear suspects through a videoconference. The cabinet has now made an exception to this because of the special circumstances, mainly the fact that Ukraine will not extradite its own citizens. Does this mean that suspects of another nationality can be physically heard in the Netherlands? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Government states that it intends to consider whether it will maintain the statement made. Mr Knip referred to this as well. We, too, would like a little more insight, if possible, into the Minister's assessment of whether that discussion has already produced a proposed position. We are a little less enthusiastic than Mr Knip, because we believe that, despite new technology, it is still much more desirable to be able to hear someone in physical presence, especially when it comes to suspects. My group understands the law of approval so that Ukrainian citizens can be tried in the Netherlands, but the procedure is carried out from Ukraine and the execution of the sentence is also in the hands of Ukrainian authorities. We share the dissatisfaction with this process, but we are pleased that Ukraine is cooperating in this. However, my group has concerns as to whether the Netherlands can guarantee procedural guarantees during such criminal proceedings. The consultation with a lawyer and the hearing by the judge through a videoconference is far from ideal. But what about the other criminal rules? Are Ukraine's procedural rules applicable and, if so, in which they differ from the Dutch? What can the Minister say about the prison conditions of the suspect in Ukraine, both in custody and in enforcement? Will the Netherlands not be jointly responsible for possible deficiencies in Ukrainian criminal justice and enforcement? I'd like a response. Can the Minister also tell us whether and, if so, how the Netherlands will and can monitor the way in which the possible sanctions to be imposed are implemented? Where in Dutch criminal law the position of victims has been constantly extended in recent years, the implementing law seems to have less attention to the position of the next of kin and that is complicated. In fact, the Minister does not provide for a separate procedure for dealing with their claims against the defendant in spite of the Council's repeated request for jurisdiction. My group considers that to be unsatisfactory. It could lead to a longer period of involvement of the survivors in proceedings and a referral from the criminal court to the civil court. It also imposes a burden on the criminal court to assess complex claims in these complex processes. There are many legal issues now that there are many countries and national legal systems involved. This also raises the question of whether there should also be a convention to establish civil liability. We do not, of course, want the next of kin to end up in years of legal hacking after all they've been through. In the Lower House, the Minister has agreed to enter into a separate letter on all claims and on whether a special arrangement is indeed being made. We very much call on the Minister to work on a settlement as easy as possible and, above all, to make the most of the action in the current criminal case. We would also like to receive the letter that the Minister has promised to the House of Representatives. Of course, the question has also been raised on the other side as to whether Ukraine should not also be held liable for the non-closure of airspace. That is also mentioned here. It is a very different reproach than taking down an aircraft, but it is one of the factors that has contributed to the emergence of this disaster. During the answer in the Lower House, the Minister said that the criminal investigation also includes the investigation into the non-closure of airspace. Is that true? Can this indeed lead to a possible state liability of Ukraine? As far as I'm concerned, this is no longer about criminal proceedings, but you're in a tortuous act. I would like some clarification from the Minister. How is this included in the regime of the Implementing Law and the Approval Act? Finally. It will be a long and difficult road that we will have to take to try the guilty, but we are very pleased with the willingness shown by the countries concerned so far. We are also very pleased that we now at least have these laws in place that we can vote on later. We wish the Minister every success in moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. After a Buk missile took down MH17 from Malaysia Airlines on 17 July 2014, with 298 passengers on board, the Dutch government has always stated that it will make every effort to bring justice to the victims and survivors of this disaster. We appreciate that commitment and the government's constant effort. The Netherlands does this together with other countries, including Malaysia, Australia and Ukraine. The Netherlands, which has 196 victims and is the most affected, has taken over the leadership of the grieving nations, both in the case of the prosecution, which is carried out by the JIT, and in the form of the trial. An attempt to establish an international tribunal stranded in 2015 on a veto by the Russian Federation in the UN Security Council. After consultation, it was decided to allow the Dutch judge to take the trial. In this context, the Treaty with Ukraine is important, as Ukraine also has jurisdiction because the disaster took place over Ukrainian territory. From the point of view of care, there is now a convention with Ukraine on legal cooperation that gives the Dutch courts the power and allows them to bring all crimes related to the taking down of flight MH17. My group considers this an important step, welcomes it and supports the government in its determined determination to allow justice and justice to be done. This is important not only for the next of kin, but also as a signal to the international community. A crime like this can't go unpunished. Mr. Chairman. We understand that Russia is not a party to this specific cooperation and that this does not need to be discussed with the Russians either. After the Netherlands, Ukraine has jurisdiction and not Russia. Russia is now being asked to cooperate in the search and prosecution process. The Dutch Government has now found that Russia is not doing enough. Our question to the government is which international treaties provide the basis for a discussion with Russia on both prosecution and trial, apart from United Nations Security Council Resolution 2166 of 2014. I am referring, in particular, to the European treaties which are also mentioned as the basis for legal cooperation with Ukraine, and I believe that Mr Strik referred to this as well. What are the treaties of the Netherlands and Russia? And what do they mean for consultation with the Russian Government? Mr. Chairman. I will not go into detail about the technical design of any further legal proceedings. This has happened in the House of Representatives and a number of colleagues have already done so; I am thinking, among other things, of the videoconference. However, I would like to draw attention to the language of the process once it is done. Taking down flight MH17 is an event of international proportions with a major international political impact. The law has now created the possibility to allow parts of the process to take place in English. It is also conceivable that the whole process takes place in English to avoid constantly changing language. What is the Minister's opinion on this? Mr President, I would like to limit myself to a single question, but above all I would like to say that my group supports the government's actions to ensure justice and justice for what happened on that 17th July 2014 over Ukraine. We hope that it will be possible to bring the perpetrators to justice once and for all, and we wish the government a great deal of strength to bring this about one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, during a condolence visit, I spoke to a couple who had lost their son in the MH17 disaster. Speaking with that sad father and mother, you once more realize how important it is for these people to be clear about what happened then and that justice is being done. As a matter of course, I am thinking of the PvdA Group, which Mr Witteveen had to lose. The MH17 disaster is not only a sensitive diplomatic and political issue. First of all, it is a human tragedy that calls for compassion, honesty and justice. I hope that the legislation before us will be able to make some contribution to this. For the SGP, the rule is that the law must have its course. If possible, those responsible for taking down the plane must be punished. The problem here is that we are dealing with victims of different nationalities. We are also dealing with complex countries such as Russia and Ukraine. It is a complex international legal context in a very sensitive area. It is important that not only the perpetrators are brought to justice, but also that the feelings of the families of the many victims are carefully dealt with. It is in itself special that the countries concerned have decided to cooperate as much as possible. Ukraine has even transferred jurisdiction to the Netherlands in this case. In a complicated context, as simple as possible in the given context, it is hopefully possible to do justice in this way and to bring the truth up to date as much as possible. The treaty with Ukraine is clear in itself. The main problem is that Ukraine has no opportunity to extradite its own citizens for criminal investigations. We can set up whole theories about this, but that is the situation that we must now take as a starting point. Practice should aim to ensure that authorities and suspects cooperate in the best possible manner of questioning. We therefore call on the Minister, if necessary, to call on the authorities to continue to cooperate favourably, including for Ukrainian citizens. The problem remains that they cannot be forced to cooperate. Can we assume that, within the scope of the rule of law, everything will be done to get suspects to speak? As far as penalties are concerned, the Minister has repeatedly ensured that there are no substantial differences between the Dutch and Ukrainian criminal law. This is also an important starting point for the SGP: after proof, there must also be a substantial penalty. The starting point must be that suspects are heard at the courthouse in the Netherlands. Anyone who wants to do so can follow the case there. But if that is not possible, a video connection is a good second solution. In this way, it is possible to prevent suspects from being convicted in absentia. The SGP therefore welcomes the possibility of video connection. The draft law before us makes good arrangements for this and also takes good account of the interests of both the suspects and the next of kin. After all, when one thing is frustrating, it is when suspects do not speak or the next of kin and other involved are unable to follow what happens during the trial. Because it is also possible for Russian citizens to be involved, the relationship with that country also requires attention. At the moment, there is no treaty with Russia. However, it may be necessary to be able to hear those suspects as well. Does the Minister have the impression that Russia can be moved to cooperate? Are any further steps being taken to be able to question those suspects as well? Mr. Chairman. The painful wounds that were struck four years ago will not be healed. However, it is crucial for the processing process that the data subjects know that justice is being spoken. The SGP sincerely hopes that the treaty and the further regulation can meet this in a responsible manner, so that justice and truth can ultimately go hand in hand in this difficult area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u19	Madam President. Strictly speaking, as far as our group is concerned, we did not have to deal with both of these proposals in plenary. The difference of opinion on its essence is, as it turns out, extremely limited. Both proposals, the Convention and the Implementing Act, were also accepted unanimously in the House of Representatives, uncontested, evidently. There are, however, cases in which plenary debate is mainly a matter of marking. The present agreement with Ukraine on legal cooperation on the MH17 is such a matter. We are here today marking our determination and unflinchingness to come to truth finding and justice. That is what we owe to the 298 victims of this disaster, their families and ourselves. The present treaty regulates cooperation with Ukraine. It is a clear choice for the Dutch legal system. It is in itself remarkable that one country, in this case Ukraine, transfers its powers of prosecution of its own nationals to another country. That can be said with appreciation here. Ukrainian suspects must not be extradited. This is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution, but Ukrainian suspects may appear in the Hague Court by video. They are then convicted here, if convincing evidence has been provided. Their punishment will be done in their own country. The presence of suspects in a court of law is an essential element in criminal proceedings. It is therefore a pity that the cooperation of a suspect is also essential in this treaty to want to appear in the courtroom per image connection. It's been memorized before. The Minister has already made it clear that there is no other way. Among other things, the second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters gives the defendant a decisive voice in this. Any bargaining with the European protocol through this bilateral treaty would only increase the risk that a judge will later make comments on fair trial. That is the very last thing we should wish for in a future MH17 process. Madam President. We should not confuse this treaty with the recent liability of the Russian Federation by the Dutch and Australian governments. This liability was directly derived from the findings of the Joint Investigation Team. However, it is not completely separate from it either. After all, this team found that the Buk rocket in question, including a launcher, was transported from a Russian barracks, that they then made a whole trip across Russian territory and that they then entered the rebellious area in Eastern Ukraine. That's where the shot was fired, after which the launcher returned. Hence the liability charge. About names of suspects, the Joint Investigation Team hasn't shown itself. Not yet, as we can probably say, because you get the feeling that a net is slowly but surely closing. There are no names of suspects so far, but the leader of the Westerbeke team said on the occasion of the presentation of his latest report: "The perpetrators have different nationalities." It is not too risky, on the basis of this reconstructed Buk installation, to draw the conclusion that we are dealing here with two nationalities: perpetrators of Ukrainian and offenders of Russian nationality. The question is, therefore, whether we should not seek such a treaty on criminal cooperation as is currently the case with Ukraine, even with Russia. The Minister has previously indicated that this is not yet on the agenda. I would venture to doubt that on the basis of the findings of the Joint Investigation Team. It seems to me that such a treaty with Russia in the present constellation will, unfortunately, be unlikely to be a safe speculation. But the step-by-step approach probably fits in with an attempt to do so. Or are we wrong about that? When is such an attempt going to be discussed, I ask the Minister? Madam President. It is now four years since the world, and our country in particular, was spooked by the dramatic event of the MH17. Images of those days are all on the retina: the flower sea at Schiphol, the serene dignity in Eindhoven, the funeral procession on the A2. The next of kin and ourselves have we solemnly promised that the perpetrators will be punished. It's not easy. We are a small country and rude retribution we cannot and do not want. We want truth finding and justice. Truth finding goes one step at a time. In view of the screaming injustice, it is pitifully slow, but it is no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u20	Let me clarify a question: the CDA colleague is talking about possible perpetrators of any Russian nationality. He says that maybe that's why you should make a treaty with Russia. But with the present treaty that we are concluding with Ukraine, can we prosecute any of the perpetrators of Russian nationality? Isn't that already provided for? And my second question is: what could a treaty like this possibly add to the current treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u21	I believe that the premise of the first question is not entirely correct. The second question follows on from what I am asking the government, so I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u22	I understand that Ukraine has delegated powers to the Netherlands. The principle of territoriality lies with them, because it happened above Ukraine. This could prosecute any suspects of any nationality. Isn't that already provided for? That also applies to Russian nationality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u23	As long as it is Russian nationals who are on Russian territory, that is not the case. With regard to Russian nationals who, in a hypothetical case, would be arrested on Ukrainian territory, there are possibilities for extradition. Madam President. Like I said, truth finding goes one step at a time. And in view of the screaming injustice, it is pitifully slow, but it is no different. I congratulate the government, the previous and the present cabinet, on the acribic determination with which they are pursuing our goal. The proposals are a small part of them. We are convinced that there will be perpetrators and trials at the end. It could take a long time, it could take too long. But we owe the next of kin and also the international legal order that one thing is certain for every perpetrator and every potential perpetrator of such a crime: one day comes the day of reckoning. For this reason alone, Madam President, it is a good thing that the two proposals have not remained a piece of work and we look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I give the floor to Mr Dankert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u25	Madam President. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals on the legal aspects of our country's efforts with other countries to achieve truth and satisfaction regarding the take-down of the MH17 flight, almost four years ago. One legislative proposal focuses on a specific, concrete implementation of international legal cooperation, namely the treaty between Ukraine and the Netherlands, and the other contains provisions related to the prosecution and trial in the Netherlands of criminal offences related to the taking down of flight MH17, which will then apply rules of the Dutch trial. The members of the D66 Group welcome this choice made by the government for trial and prosecution in the Netherlands, embedded in international cooperation and support. This reflects both the national and international dimension of the immense tragedy that has taken place with the downfall of the MH17 flight. The same applies to the creation of the Joint Investigation Team, in which dozens of detectives and prosecutors from the five countries concerned cooperate with the Netherlands, Belgium, Ukraine, Australia and Malaysia under the leadership of a Dutch Chief Prosecutor. If I understand correctly, the cooperation can be different in each country, but the ultimate goal remains the same for all: the perpetrators must be brought to justice. This successful legal and practical cooperation raises the question of whether such cooperation as is now enshrined in the treaty with Ukraine and in a second treaty, including with the other members of the Joint Investigation Team, could possibly be developed in Australia, Malaysia and Belgium. For this, we can opt for the same model as with Ukraine, but it does not have to be exactly the same model. Could bilateral agreements be envisaged with these other countries? Does the Minister have any views on whether it is a good idea to go further or not? Madam President. Immediately after the downfall of the MH17 flight, Prime Minister Rutte identified the cause of the plane crash and the detection and trial of the perpetrators as two main priorities of the government. In both areas, the excellent work of the Security Research Council and the Joint Investigation Team has made great progress. Following the latest report by the OVV, the Netherlands and Australia have decided to jointly hold Russia liable for its share in the downfall of the flight MH17. The other Joint Investigation Team countries and countries outside supported this proposal. This is why it was unexpected that the Malaysian Transport Minister declared publicly at the end of May: "There is no conclusive evidence to confirm that Russia was responsible for the downing of Malaysia Airways flight MH17." Would the Minister explain what the Malaysian Government's position is now and on what grounds did the Malaysian Transport Minister make this statement? It does not seem to me that these are political reasons, namely the desire not to go into confrontation with Russia. Also in earlier stages of our country's cooperation with the most concerned other countries there were signs that some of them were concerned about possible repercussions that the Joint Investigation investigation might have on relations with Russia. This brings me to Moscow's attitude to the efforts of the international community to find truth and satisfaction about taking down the flight MH17. From the outset, Russia's attitude to proposals and initiatives aimed at an internationally agreed process of persecution and trial was critical or negative. Immediately after the disaster, Moscow did not agree that ICAO, the international civil aviation organisation which is the primary organisation responsible for such disasters, was in charge of the international community's response to the MH17 disaster. Instead, Moscow felt that the UN institutions in New York should play a central role. In concrete terms, this would mean that the Security Council, that is to say Russia, would be given a veto. In line with this, Moscow's veto was one year later against the proposal of the five countries of the Joint Investigation Team to establish an international MH17 tribunal. Even then Moscow wouldn't touch the buttons. The work of the Security Research Council, for which there is much international appreciation, also found no mercy in Moscow. However, it should be noted that Russia has not completely closed the door over the years. For example, if I am well informed, some Russian experts have been involved in the investigation into the disaster and some evidence has been submitted by Russia. This raises the question as to whether it would be appropriate to engage in a discussion with Moscow on forms of further cooperation and more intensive cooperation than at present. Several colleagues have already spoken about this today and have already put forward concrete proposals. Can the Minister go into more detail, in particular, on the point which Mr Knapen also mentioned, on what the Minister said in the debate in the House of Representatives, namely that the time has not yet come for a treaty? On the basis of what criteria would you, Minister, change that "not yet" into "maybe"? I am not asking, as you will understand, because we want to express an instinctive sympathy for the Russian position, but given the importance of Russia's involvement in criminal proceedings and practical cooperation, which I believe is ultimately necessary for the outcome of the procedure. My final point, Madam President, concerns the use of certain words. This is often an important point in diplomacy. In Resolution 2166 the Security Council called for international cooperation shortly after the downfall of the MH17 flight, with the aim of making those responsible for this atrocity liable. However, the explanatory memorandum to the bill on international legal cooperation refers to "to accountability" of persons as an objective of national and international efforts. That "calling to account" seems to go less far than "putting to account." Will the Minister comment on this and clarify the legal consequences of the use of these two different terms? With that, the disaster with the MH17 remains mainly a major human tragedy. Our thoughts go out to the family and friends of the victims. We look forward to the effective prosecution and trial of those responsible for this catastrophe. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The taking down of Malaysian Airlines' MH17 flight on 17 July 2014, just a few days after four years ago, with 298 casualties, is and remains a national disaster with a huge impact. We shall never forget this. The road to justice, to prosecuting and punishing the guilty to do justice to the victims and their families, is a difficult and time-consuming one, as it turns out, and has many legal bumps. Last September, with the agreement of the countries of the Joint Investigation Team, it was decided to prosecute and prosecute the defendants in the Netherlands, according to the rules of Dutch criminal law. Today we are discussing the resulting two legislative proposals, for the law approving the Convention between the Netherlands and Ukraine on International Legal Cooperation and its implementing law. Both legislative proposals were adopted unanimously in the House of Representatives. That says something about the joint political will to do all the things that ultimately bring the guilty to the Dutch courts. But, Mr President, unfortunately, we will not get the guarantee that the perpetrators of taking down the MH17 will be punished by ratifying the Convention and adopting the implementing law. 50PLUS would like once again to confirm to the Minister that the Netherlands continues to make every effort to ensure that suspects are effectively prosecuted and tried. This also means that an international solution must be sought to ultimately bring potential Russian suspects to the Dutch courts. After all, Russia also does not issue its own nationals. The present legislative proposals are absolutely an important step in the right direction and 50PLUS supports the content of both. It is also a great compliment from the other countries to leave to the Netherlands the complete persecution and trial. This means absolute confidence in the Dutch legal system. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has the following questions to the Minister. Due to the prohibition of extradition of own nationals in the Ukrainian Constitution, Article 8 of the Treaty provides for the possibility that Ukrainian suspects may be tried in the Netherlands via teleconference or videoconference. The defendant's consent must be subject to this condition. If he refuses to do so, he will not appear in person but can only be convicted in absentia. During the debate in the House of Representatives on 6 June, the Minister said that only trial by videoconference can take place if suspect agrees and that trial by videoconference also does not apply to all crimes. Surely my group can assume that crimes directed against life, such as death by guilt, manslaughter or murder, are not excluded? I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. The second point raised by the Minister was that he was not sure whether the Dutch court would still consider the criminal proceedings a fair trial if the defendant's consent requirement was missing. The Minister is referring to the non-compulsory appearance of suspects in criminal proceedings. But how does this relate to the Dutch court's ability to force a suspect to appear under conditions? I refer to Articles 258 (2) and 278 (2) of the Criminal Procedure. Application of Dutch law makes the European Convention on Human Rights, the ECHR, applicable. As we all know, the ECHR precedes the Dutch penal code. This also applies mutatis mutandis to Ukraine, also party to the ECHR. Article 6 of the ECHR guarantees the right to a fair trial referred to by the Minister. The question is whether the right to a fair trial includes the right to renounce presence in a trial through videoconference. In other words, to waive the right to be present at your own criminal proceedings. Article 6 of the ECHR protects precisely the right to be present at your own trial. The vast majority of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR, deals with situations where the suspect wanted to be present in order to be able to defend himself, but was obstructed or restricted. So why would a possible obligation on the defendant to be present at a video conference infringe this "fair trial" described in Article 6, my group asks the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Should the Minister not refer earlier to Article 5 of the ECHR, the right to freedom and security. The right to freedom can be legally restricted by public authorities. Article 5 (1) (3c) of the ECHR allows restrictions of freedom in the event of suspicion of criminal offences and paragraph 3 recognises the right to be brought before a court soon after arrest. Could you not say, then, that the judge may, in principle, issue an injunction against the defendant? In other words, the Dutch criminal court can indeed force the Ukrainian suspect to participate in the videoconference on the basis of the admissibility of Dutch criminal proceedings in conjunction with the aforementioned Article 5 ECHR. Does the Minister share our view? In this context, 50PLUS also refers to the forthcoming legislative proposal extension of victim rights of the Minister for Legal Protection, introducing an obligation to appear for certain suspects. The Minister writes: "The case law of the ECHR nor the aforementioned Directive indicate that the defendant's right of presence implies or implies a right of absence. Therefore, if the conditions laid down in Article 5 ECHR are met, this section expressly provides for the possibility of requiring the defendant to attend the hearing.' If the defendant can be forced to take part in the videoconference and then do not say anything about his right to remain silent, it is still much better than not appearing at all. Survivors of the victims will at least get a visual on the suspect. Can the Minister therefore comment on what he said in the debate with the House of Representatives on 6 June last on this matter? I quote the Minister: 'If you could arrange such a forced video conference with Ukraine, there is a very good chance that the suspect will come into the picture and not say anything at all, because that point of consent is gone and he does not want to participate in it. Then why don't we put the horse behind the cart?" What does the Minister mean by this statement? We are all here striving for prosecution and trial in which suspects, preferably in person and therefore in the picture, stand trial. Recourse to the law of silence is frequent in criminal proceedings and that is a constitutional right, so that can never be violated. So what does the Minister mean by this statement? Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u28	You're short, aren't you? You're two minutes late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u29	Excuse me, I'm closing up. Another question on the transfer of the enforcement of custodial sentences. A suspect with a non-Dutch nationality who has been sentenced to a custodial sentence in the Netherlands after trial will thus serve his sentence outside the Netherlands. However, the custodial sentence imposed by the Dutch court may be different from that imposed in Ukraine, for example. According to the Minister, the level of penalties in Ukraine is very similar to that in the Netherlands. Is that generally the case, or are the penalties for life crimes similar to those of the Netherlands, I ask the Minister. Surely it would be indigestible if the sentenced person served a lower sentence than that imposed by the Dutch court? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate and suspend the meeting for lunch.
