ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the concerns of three large companies about the consequences of the sale of Eneco shares. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Eight speakers have come forward. Everyone has three minutes' speaking time. I'd like to meet with you: two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	"We have only one earth, and we cannot burden it more heavily than is strictly necessary." Mr President, you may think that this is from the election programme of the Party for Animals, but it is not. That phrase comes from Eneco. I can see the minister looking up if he is, but it's really there. I quote their mission: renewable energy from everyone. "We invest in wind farms, biomass plants, heat and solar parks to increase the supply of renewable energy." That long-term mission is in danger. Now Eneco is still in the hands of 53 municipalities, but a majority threatens to sell its shares to the highest bidder. In recent months there has even been a real sales dispute about the sustainability price between the shareholders and the Enecotop. Meanwhile, the moods have calmed down and sales agreements have been made, a kind of covenant. This should maintain the sustainable course of Eneco. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Minister what sustainability demands are being made. Is the covenant legally binding, even after the sale? Or is it a sustainability guarantee up to the front door and is it just an intention that can go into the trash after the sale? Can the Minister answer these questions? If that is not possible now, it can possibly be written later, as long as it is for the municipal elections, because after these municipal elections decisions are taken. Mr. Chairman. An acquisition could mean the end of Eneco's sustainable course. According to Reuters, Eneco is mainly interested in the oil sector. Shell is often mentioned. That could be the death blow for sustainability at Eneco, because Shell has very different interests than sustainability. For example, top man Ben van Beurden spoke out loud earlier this year for shale gas. So again: what conditions are imposed on the buyer of Eneco and how binding are the terms, even in the longer term? Mr. Chairman. In addition to energy, Eneco also provides heat. It's even the biggest heat farmer in our country. Although we have legally regulated that electrical grids remain in public hands, this is not the case for heat grids. During the split of Eneco, an illogical cut was made whereby the heat grids did not end up with the public network operator, but with the commercial production supplier. So the heat grids go with the sale. That is an important reason for the interest of fossil companies in Eneco. Such a heat grid is a good way to stay assured of losing fossil heat. Mr. Chairman. The use of residual heat from polluting industries is really not sustainable. On the contrary, we must avoid being attached to this residual heat for a long time and thereby delaying real sustainability. That is why I have two more questions for the Minister. Why was Eneco split so that the heat grids could not be housed with the system operator? And can these heat grids still be exempted from sale? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. Then I would very much like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were standing there, and we looked at it. As it looks like now, Eneco will soon not be in public hands, but will be sold to the highest bidder. Whether that's Shell or a foreign energy company, we probably won't be better off. The last large Dutch energy company, the most green energy company, is still in public hands today, will be sold out on the market against the company's own wishes. The board of directors, the employees, the major shareholders, the NS, KPN, Albert Heijn, different municipalities, including even an alderman of the VVD; all of them do not want to sell. Still, that's probably gonna happen. It is capitalism in optima forma, towards the reckless, according to a journalist of The Correspondent. But it's not a race yet, although some of the municipalities want us to believe it. It is only after the municipal elections that decision-making takes place. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Conditions can also be fully negotiated. Municipalities, don't do it, please, before you start. Take this opportunity to use the shares of an energy company in the hand to proceed with local sustainability. So much remains to be done. Do so now with all the means you have as a municipality. Does the Minister see these advantages? Does he see that the climate goals of his cabinet with Eneco are easier to achieve than without, that the local sustainability of heat with these shares can be designed more easily than without? How does the Minister think Shell's gonna do that, or the Vattenfalls of this world? The sale of Nuon and Essent has shown that sustainability and greening are not directly high on the agendas. Innovation departments have been closed and moved abroad and there are few green developments. How can the sustainable course not only be secured, but rather extended? This is necessary given our climate goals. Can there really be Mr Wassenberg's request that tough conditions should also be imposed when the final choice is made? I would like to put forward another idea, which I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Is it not possible to investigate whether other municipalities and perhaps the government too can buy up the shares of municipalities that want to sell, so that Eneco remains a public company? Would he want to investigate that? There is no guarantee of employment either. That's a big concern of my party. When Essent and Nuon were sold, 4,400 jobs were lost. What's gonna happen to the employees now? What guarantees are there? I'm gonna finish up. Against the international movement, against the need for local and regional energy supply, the most obvious instrument for achieving more large-scale clean energy is likely to be thrown overboard. We're not just gonna let that happen, are we? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time that we have spoken in this Chamber about Eneco and the forthcoming sale. It is also fairly predictable, I think, what the Minister is going to say about this, namely that he cannot say much about it. That is why I really only have one question to ask him on this point. Does he agree with me that a very good result of GroenLinks in Rotterdam, The Hague and Dordrecht could make a significant difference to whether Eneco will be sold?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	That immediately evokes an interruption by Mrs Beckerman. Go ahead, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	Oh, no, of course I'd like Mr Van der Lee to do that. But what I want to ask is this. He says the Minister can't really say much about it. I just suggested an idea. Would it not be possible, if there are municipalities that want to sell and also stay with that decision after GroenLinks has become perhaps the largest, to investigate whether the Empire or perhaps other municipalities that want to work actively with sustainability can buy up shares of the municipalities? What does Mr Van der Lee think of this option?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think it's a creative idea. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. But I actually had a number of other questions to him that go a little wider and not about Eneco's individual case. Eneco is a wonderful company. I also think it should remain in public hands, because we are at a different moment in time than we were at the time when we continued the split. We are now on the verge of a huge transition, in which there is a great deal of capacity to produce energy from fossil fuels. In addition, we are going to invest many, many billions in infrastructure, in financing uneconomic summits and in innovation to create renewable energy production capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you. Are you still responding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	Oh, no, I'd moved on to my speech. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	That's what I thought. I wanted to say very nicely: continues his speech. But I think that's what you've been doing. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	Sorry, Chairman. My point is that in the coming years a huge production capacity of energy will become available. That has very annoying consequences for the price. It can go down very much, so that the uneconomic peaks of sustainable alternatives will grow enormously. At this transition stage, I think it is necessary to have a little more market direction than is currently possible under traditional competition law. In that light, I am curious to hear from the Minister how he sees it that we are dealing with existing competition legislation at that transition stage. Isn't it necessary to put it temporarily aside? I don't think that can be adjusted or temporarily to ensure that we get through that transition in a decent way? This is also important from a different perspective. The interconnectedness between the networks and the production companies becomes very large again, precisely because of the potential of digitisation, of smart grids. When does a network start and when does it really produce energy? That tie's gonna get stronger again. And that, too, leads me to a question that lies more at the level of protection against a takeover from a country that we can no longer fully trust. Isn't that a risk to our entire future energy infrastructure? And if Eneco comes into the hands of a party that may have evil intentions in the long term, it will affect our entire network. From the point of view of the protection of vital sectors, there is, perhaps not now but in the near future, a time when it is better to prevent a company such as Eneco from entering the market. I would like to hear the Minister's views on these two points. How is the inheritance of the division decision taken? And perhaps it needs to be revised in terms of competition at the energy transition stage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a lot of unrest about the proposed sale of Eneco. The shareholders are divided, there is unrest among the employees and companies turn to the parliament. Also in my party, the Labour Party, there is a lot of resistance to the sale of Eneco. A lot of councilmen are worried. That is quite understandable, because the production and supply companies play a crucial role in the energy transition. I know what the Minister is going to say when I ask him to give an opinion on the sale of Eneco: we are not going to do so as a government; the co-governments are shareholders. But even if we don't go over it, we're allowed to like it for my taste. We can take a look at this in the context of the new energy and climate agreement under way. Mr Van der Lee also mentioned the role and significance of the production and supply companies. It will be different in the future than it was a few years ago. During the energy transition, there will have to be production and supply companies that can serve as back-up at the time when the production of wind energy, solar energy and other alternative sources stagnates. It's about that notorious dark day, that foggy day on which there is no wind, and on which you still have an interest that there is conventional capacity, which can then ensure that not only my iPad but also the millions of other iPads are charged in the morning. Shouldn't we look at the production and delivery companies as we look at banks? The banking sector is a commercial business, yet we see a number of system banks that are important in monetary circulation. Shouldn't you be looking at the production and delivery companies with that look? Mr. Chairman. My group is deeply concerned about the breach of the greening agenda that we jointly pursue as governments. I only have one question for the Minister. That is whether he wants to use his influence to allow this to take place under the right green conditions if the governments decide to alienate him. I believe that the consultation on the national energy and climate agreement is the right platform for that discussion. As far as I am concerned, it is not limited to Eneco, but also extends to the other energy production and supply companies that are still in public hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you. That calls for one last interruption from Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	Yes. I actually have the same question as I have just asked Mr Van der Lee. I think we're allies in the sense that we actually want to keep Eneco public. There are municipalities that want to sell, and there are municipalities that don't want to sell. That can change after the council elections. You say that we actually need system banks and also system energy companies. I would like to know what you think of the idea of researching whether we can buy the shares of municipalities that really want to sell by other municipalities or by the government, so that we create "system-Eneco."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	When it comes to the direction and policy of energy companies, as a government, you can serve the public interest by three ways: through ownership, through regulation and through supervision and enforcement. As far as I'm concerned, ownership is not the crucial success factor. We simply have to note that the energy market has been commercialised and liberalised in the past. Energy companies are at the mercy of this discipline, even though they are in government hands. Look at DELTA, which had its own greening agenda, yet has been so chastised by the market that it has become bledders. As far as I am concerned, therefore, ownership is not crucial. It can be an instrument, but just as with the system banks, you can also guarantee the public interest through regulation and through supervision and enforcement. This can also be done through cross-compliance to sales. I am therefore very interested in the views of the Minister on this matter and on the acquisition of property, as you have proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Beckerman, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have a follow-up question. I understand you're saying there are other possibilities. But now let's see what more property could do. If we go through the analogy you draw with the banks, we can see that system banks have also gone wrong very often. That has already cost us a lot of money. Prevention might be better than cure. We now have a public energy company, which is the greenest energy company. We have huge climate targets. We see in the countries around us that this privatisation is almost pretending that it was a natural disaster, but it has been political choices to privatise it is being reversed. This happens, for example, in Germany, where they achieve much higher percentages of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	Could ownership not be much more important if we are to be able to achieve this acceleration in the transition, which we all want, so that we also retain jobs and ensure that the energy price remains at a normal level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	The PvdA Group prefers that Eneco remains in public hands, also because of the future role of the production and supply companies in the energy transition. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that in a fully commercialised and liberalised market, which is a reality at the moment, you should not overestimate the importance of ownership. So I think that at the same time you should also look at regulation and supervision and enforcement in order to safeguard public interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, Essent fell into foreign hands. Then Nuon was sold abroad. Now it's Eneco's turn. All shares of Eneco are currently in the public hands of 53 Dutch municipalities. In fact, Eneco is the Dutch taxpayer. However, a majority of these municipalities indicated that they wanted to dispose of those shares. Why? Since the division of Eneco, the municipalities no longer see public interest in it, but above all a commercial interest. And then we come to the true reason for the possible sale: money-sucking. Exactly as Professor Rotmans put it: the municipalities want to cash out. Just cashing and nothing but that. In fact, they choose for themselves, for their own municipal treasury. They opt for dependence on a large foreign company, which has absolutely no connection with the Netherlands and our Dutch employees. They opt for a large financial power where job losses are the rule rather than the exception. The municipalities, of course, should have chosen those jobs. They should have chosen security of supply and a lower energy bill. Because, Mr President, energy is a basic requirement. As the PVV has always said in the past: we must keep energy companies in our own hands and certainly not sell them out. Eneco is Dutch and should remain Dutch. Does the Minister share that opinion? If Eneco's shares are sold, what effect will that have on employment? Since the sale of Essent and Nuon, more than 4,000 jobs have disappeared there. Over 4,000! More than 3,000 people currently work at Eneco. How is the minister gonna make sure those people don't go out on the street in a mass manner? In addition, Mr President, what consequences does a possible sale of the shares have for the amount of the energy bill? That's not unimportant either. Eneco currently supplies energy to some 3.5 million households. That's almost half of all households. In the consumer market, Eneco is therefore a great power. How is the Minister going to ensure that the energy bill does not go up any further? While the shareholders, the municipalities, apparently only think about their own interests, the left-wing parties in this house can also do some of it. Because in a possible takeover of Eneco we have already heard this, they see a danger to the green course. Here comes the monkey from the sleeve, Chairman. What do you mean, high or low energy bills? What do you mean, jobs? Sustainability, climate, that is apparently what the left-wing parties are about. In fact, the left-wing sustainability preachers in this Chamber are no better than the shareholders of Eneco himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you. This doesn't call for a response from the audience, I see. Mr Jetten is ready to speak on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the next ten years, the energy transition will be one of the biggest challenges facing us all. The challenge of moving from a fossil era to a green age with sustainable energy generation, affordable energy prices for our consumers and businesses and more decentralised generation. These are all challenges that we face together in the coming years. Tonight we are actually mixing this discussion with a discussion about the ownership of one of the parties involved, namely the energy company Eneco. I do not think that we should play the national council here with 150 men, or with nine of us tonight. The shares are owned by 53 municipalities, where the council members are perfectly capable of discussing with their college of B and W what the functions of the municipality are and whether Eneco's shareholdership fits the price of that municipality and the representation of the interests of the residents of that municipality. I do not want to have a discussion here about what we in the Chamber think about the possible sale of those shares. I really want to leave that to the city councils. Two questions have been asked to the Minister which are relevant tonight, because they are about possible effects of the sale of shares on employment at Eneco. I address the Minister not so much as a portfolio holder of climate, but as Minister of Economic Affairs. I would like to hear from him how, from that role, he follows the possible sale of the shares and wants to make arrangements about the sales process for maintaining employment in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Wassenberg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr Jetten is right that we are not dealing with this as a Chamber. But, of course, we have a lot of debates on renewable energy. We will have a debate on this tomorrow. The share of renewable energy is still poor. This is a big company. It's a relatively green company. It is not the greenest company, but it scores well among medium-sized companies according to the Consumers' Union and Greenpeace. Then it's not weird that we want to say something about that as a Lower House, is it? We're having trouble achieving the sustainable goals. And then we're gonna lose a really big company. Even the top of that company says: we wonder what that sale is going to mean for the company's sustainable course. Well, then it's very reasonable that we should talk about that as a room, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'm sure we're all gonna like it, but we're not gonna go over it in the end. I think we should just be real about that. Personally, I'm not even so much afraid that this sale by definition leads to a less green Eneco. In my opinion, Eneco is an interesting company, because it has set a clear green course compared to other companies and is slowly moving in the right direction. I believe that parties who would like to buy Eneco will also see an opportunity to get a green party in the portfolio that can hold the lead in our energy transition. Energy companies that linger in the fossil age won't be worth a penny in a few years' time. So I'm not so afraid that selling those shares will, by definition, lead to a less green Eneco.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	That fear is shared a bit more widely, because Eneco's top was also very suspicious about this. Companies such as Albert Heijn, KPN and the NS have been very concerned and have also written a letter about this at the end of October. So I hope it will help Mr Jetten, but I think he should take those concerns a little more seriously. In addition, we are simply going to lose influence in this way. We are not talking about this, but the Minister can, of course, play an advisory role. Surely we can see what the Chamber can do to keep these kinds of important companies in public hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	Two points on this. I think that the letters and all the calls made at the end of last year have helped to focus the discussion in all these municipalities, such as: let us be aware of the possible impact of the sale of those shares on Eneco's green price. I also think that you can now see that in the discussions in the municipalities and within Eneco on the framework conditions for the sale of shares, there is much more respect for the sustainable ambitions than before all these calls were made. The second is, I think, the most important. Mr Moorlag has just put that right. There are several ways in which the government can influence the price of these types of companies. This can be done through ownership, but much better you do so with clear laws and regulations and supervision. All these things are going to force the greening of the whole energy sector. That is why we have a special table for the energy generation sector in the climate and energy agreement. We also agreed in the coal agreement that we would introduce, for example, a CO price for energy production and that there would be a legal ban on the use of coal in the energy sector. I think that's the role the government should take. Provide clear frameworks for green energy generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	The sale of Eneco was initially initiated by a D66 alderman in Rotterdam? This is partly due to a split of the networks in production. It was set in motion at the time by D66 Minister Brinkhorst. D66 is consistent in that sense. That party is always a champion in highlighting market forces, even from the point of view that there should be as low a price as possible for the consumer. That is why I asked the Minister what we would do in the transition period if the government created overcapacity. Because you're going to invest a lot in the existing rules of the market. This means that energy prices are going to fall, making all these new sustainable activities more uneconomic. Then it becomes dangerous for a company like Eneco. Do you see that? Do you agree with me that the Minister should carry out research to see whether competition in this area should temporarily be set up something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	Firstly, market forces are never an end in themselves, but indeed a means of ensuring that consumers receive an affordable and good product. That's the lead. The questions that Mr Van der Lee has just asked the Minister, I actually think are more appropriate in the debate that we are having tomorrow on the new climate and energy agreement, because there are certainly risks in the coming years for this whole energy transition. The risk is not only that sustainable generation is too expensive for a long time compared to old fossil generation, but there is also a risk around, for example, our gas plants. I know we all want to get rid of gas, but we also need a number of gas plants in the coming years to provide us all with sufficient heat and electricity temporarily at peak times. But those gas plants are about to go down first, if we don't watch out. So there are a lot of aspects in the energy transition that are going to be under pressure in the coming years, but I do not think that we should discuss this when it comes to possible stock sales by a few municipalities, but we should talk about this in the context of the climate and energy agreement. But Mr Van der Lee has just asked a few questions about this, and I am sure the Minister will be willing to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I see that connection and it is also very logical, but it is also relevant to the future and opportunities of Eneco. If nothing happens in this area, and if competition continues as if nothing is going on, then the business case of Eneco's green mission will be undermined. You have to recognize that with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	I wonder if that is indeed on the competition side. I can also imagine that this is precisely in the area of our legislation on the energy market and the heat market, but we have discussed this more often in recent weeks. I think that we should, above all, ensure the right rules for the energy sector. If we also need to organise supervision, I would like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We are talking here today in the Chamber about the possible consequences of the sale of shares by the energy company Eneco. It is not the first time that energy companies are sold to foreign companies. Nuon was sold to the Swedish Vattenfall and Essent to the German RWE. The CDA believes that it is primarily up to the municipalities themselves, as shareholders, to decide whether they want to sell or not. We have also protected the energy network and it belongs to the vital infrastructure. But when it is sold, it is important for the CDA that good conditions are laid down for the sale. It is really important that we reach the energy targets of Paris. That is a task for all of us. According to the Minister, how can Eneco be prevented from falling into the hands of a foreign buyer who questions the sustainable price of the energy company after sale? What is the Minister going to do to encourage the municipalities to use the sustainability and sustainability of Eneco in terms of sales terms and not just the euros? In the consultation document, current shareholders indicate that the degree to which a provider or a bidder complies with the sustainable structure of Eneco is taken into account in their decision. What does "co-weighted" mean in concrete terms? In itself, I think it is right that the 'heat demand' has also been put here. I believe that this was done by my colleague Mr Wassenberg and I am suggesting him from a slightly different perspective, but I am curious about the answer. What happens to that after sales? Mr. Chairman. We are also curious whether the Minister wants to ensure that other interests, such as the affordability of the energy bill, are properly considered in addition to the interests of sustainability. Mr Kops has already mentioned it. That's a fair point. How does the Minister keep an eye on the safeguarding of public interests, such as employment? For example, are conditions imposed on a number of years that there will be no redundancies? How does the Minister deal with this sale? And what happens, for example, to the data of the customers of energy consumption when they get into other hands? Has that been considered and are these interests also being secured? Mr. Chairman. Finally, could the Minister indicate what form the sale takes? Is the news from Reuters in early February that energy supplier Eneco's shareholders would not want to sell their interests through a stock exchange but would prefer to sell directly to another energy company? I'm very curious about the answers, and I see there's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	That's right. I would like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs Mulder asks a number of very relevant questions. She asked for the Minister's opinion, but I have a question for Mrs Mulder: what role should the Minister play? Does she share the view that the Minister should actively consult with Eneco's shareholders in order to discuss those points on which Mrs Mulder is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	That is a very fair question. We are not standing here for nothing today either. Officially, the municipalities are about that, the shareholders. But I do think it is important that the Minister also discuss this, given all the other interests involved. Indeed, he is not for nothing the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate: I think employment in the Netherlands is an important issue, but also the sustainability aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mrs Mulder's colleague, Mrs Van den Berg, has often worked hard in this Chamber to protect vital sectors. Now I think we agree that the networks are vital for the Netherlands. However, production companies will increasingly be linked to these networks. Does the CDA now believe that there can be a situation in which production companies should also be included in the vital sectors that need to be protected from takeovers by countries that may have bad intentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	Taking over by countries with bad intentions, of course we are never in favour of that. Let that be very clear for a moment. Before Mrs Van den Berg was working on it, I was still working on it in the House of Representatives, so I recognize all of her views very well. You do have limited possibilities in this respect. But if the minister sees possibilities, I'd like to see them with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr Van der Lee's question has been answered adequately? Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I would very much like to give the floor to the last speaker, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD sees no reason for the Lower House to interfere in the responsibility of the current shareholders. I'm not gonna do that here either. I would like to point out that I find this kind of debate on matters that we are not discussing very complicated. If I'm being completely honest, I think it's a waste of time. I would prefer that the Minister is currently working in Groningen to bring down gas extraction, that he is shaping the climate agreement, that he is working on the Climate Law and that he is working on all those ambitious goals that we ask him about every week: how are things going? I want us to go to the country, to visit companies, to entrepreneurs, to Dutch people who have questions, concerns and ideas, instead of exchanging ideas here about things that we just aren't talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	I understand that Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD says that there are other hard jobs, but in this case it is also about employment and the concerns that are involved, including with Eneco's employees. Doesn't she think that's worth it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	Of course. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer to the question on employment. That could have been done very well in the seven-hour debate tomorrow. It could have been written, or through the municipal councils in which we are all represented. I have difficulty with this kind of debate before the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs. Mulder, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	At least we, as CDA, are not here today in front of the stage. I am really worried about employment. I am also concerned about what it means in the years to come after sales on the sustainability agenda. I am glad to hear that employment is also at the heart of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. Mrs Yeşilgöz, have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	Almost. While I am standing here and we are all here, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the old-fashioned classification of the grey industry towards the green industry, i.e. from wrong to good, really has no basis, or at least no basis anymore, and that the energy transition does not bring any nearer. There are many beautiful initiatives and innovations from companies such as Tata and Shell, in the chemical sector. There are a huge number of them and we would know a lot more if we had just gone into the country to make work visits instead of having this debate. So we need everyone. In fact, those big blowers in the context of the CO2 reduction, which we all consider to be extremely important, almost all of them, must come from precisely there. So let us stop throwing out large companies as polluters who do not want to participate. It does not do justice to reality, it does not do justice to ambition and it does not do justice to the thousands, thousands of workers who work there and indeed every day hard to make the best of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately. I ask the Minister if he can explain how he is going to answer the questions, whether he is going to work in cubes or by party. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to go through all the points briefly and then there are six points that are specifically linked to some Members. I'll walk through that in order. I think I'll have to answer in general first. The interesting thing, of course, is that as many as three speakers have said: I already know what he is going to say. And that's what I'm gonna say. And here's the thing. This Chamber is about a great deal, and this government is carrying out what the Chamber wants loyally once it is laid down in laws, but we are not dealing with individual takeovers. We are not about that, and there is a reason for that, and it has brought us a great deal. We have a great deal of clarity here about the organization in this market. We have a clear assessment of the nets. These are public monopolies and public monopolies should not become private monopolies. We have production and supply, just in a competitive market, and we have reaped a lot of benefits from that. And we have heat grids that are regulated. There is no objection whatsoever to the sale of a private company operating in a competitive market. There is no interference of the Empire, outside the legal frameworks and tests that exist. There are no statements on my part. I should not be judging on terms of sale that have been laid down by the current owners, Commissioners and, possibly, the management. It simply doesn't suit me to say quality judgments about that. Co-operations are the shareholders here. Those are just as responsible governments as they are here. Those are democracies too, and they have to judge for themselves, without getting verbal headwinds or any wind from the Empire, so mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mrs. Mulder has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	I share that with the Minister, but at the same time I think that the Minister can of course convey his concerns and make them known to the company and the shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	I don't know if I should have these concerns here, because I don't see any obstacle to sustainability. Let's be honest. We're going into a transition. The vast majority of the participants in this transition, but far above 90%, are just private companies, organisations and so on, and we need to get them. If this transition depends on the ownership of the Empire, we are very far from home. We really shouldn't do that. In those concerns from me, but also from the Chamber, we find each other. The fervent desire to achieve goals we have set applies to every private and public organisation in the Netherlands. We need policies for this, we have put together a climate agreement for that, we have all kinds of initiatives on the minimum CO price, and we also have an ETS system for that that is really starting to bite after 2030. We have all kinds of instruments because it is about a public interest, but this is independent of ownership as far as I am concerned. And that's for the best, otherwise we'd be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mrs. Mulder, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	I have to think about my own province of Drenthe, where at some point Philips Lighting would be sold in Emmen and where jobs were on the way and were worried. That is where the Minister for Economic Affairs, the predecessor of these matters, at least had a discussion and did a few more things. Isn't that something the Minister could consider in this case when Eneco's on sale?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	That is also Mr Jetten's question: how do we follow this in the context of employment, for example? Firstly, I see no reason to have great fears about employment here, but it may be. But I have always said, like my predecessor, also in letters, that there may be interference in exceptional cases. That could be a conversation. That could be a push. Anything covered by silent diplomacy could be part of that. We do so in case, for example, there is a risk of loss of decision-making centres with major impact. Even then we don't go over it, but sometimes a push in the right direction will help. It can be about strategic research centres and foreign governments that use their political influence in a way that we think: well, then so can we. In those cases, it's possible, but I don't have that kind of concern here. I do not know of many companies that have linked their sales to as noisy sustainability plans as they have to this one. From that point of view, therefore, I could interfere with many companies. I don't do that, but there are a lot of companies where you'd get involved before here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	I have some difficulty with the almost exhorting tone on which the Minister speaks to this Chamber. In my opinion, there is genuine concern here about sustainability objectives, public interests and employment. I believe that in my contribution I have indicated the nuance of the role of ownership in this. I have also recognised that we are not talking about it, but it does not mean that we can find anything and that we can enter into the consultations. That is what we are doing in the context of the Energy and Climate Agreement, isn't it? Then we'll talk to the co-governments, won't we? Is the Minister prepared to talk to the co-governments, not only to Eneco's, but to all the production and supply companies that are in public hands to see whether alienation can be subject to the right conditions so that those alienations cannot stand in the way of future public objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	In fact, I had not yet reached Mr Moorlag. He asked one of the more specific questions. He was the one who said ownership is not the crucial issue; things can also be regulated. And he asked if I was willing to use my influence. I have it literally here: let it take place under the right green conditions. That's the kind of sentence it was about. I don't want to link that to this potential sale. Indeed, I believe that we should involve all key companies in the climate agreement and that we should expect this from all public, but certainly, and above all from private companies. That is why energy companies are at these tables in large numbers, as are other parties that can play other roles in that chain. Now is the time to sit down with all those private parties to see how we can achieve those goals. But I don't want to link that to this sale. So there will be very intensive work with all these parties to achieve that 49%, which we have not all embraced here but in general. I don't want to specifically link it to this sale, because that's really not my role. I do not see any reason for these concerns at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	Then Mr Moorlag concludes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	Is the Minister prepared to speak in the context of the Energy and Climate Agreement with the production and supply companies that are in public hands? You can assume that governments have more equal interests. The purpose of that conversation is to ensure that, if alienated, that happens under the right conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	If I have to differentiate by ownership and give priority to public enterprises, then I am focusing on such a tiny fraction of energy users and producers. That is not the case, but I think that Mr Moorlag and I can shake hands here, because he will also agree that private owners' companies should also be involved in matters that we consider to be of public interest here. These companies can not only make use of the sweet in terms of support schemes, because they will also have to take on some of the social responsibility because they know that companies that do not participate at all are ultimately doomed to death. We all have to go through a transition, and that is what we really expect not only from public enterprises, because that is only a very small part. This is what we expect from private companies, private promoters and private investors. That's what we expect, otherwise nothing will happen. I think that Mr Moorlag and I agree with each other. We're gonna see what comes out of the climate agreement. But even today, I've had nothing but private energy companies, and the enthusiasm was blowing my brains out. Yes, first see then deliver, said Mr Moorlag, yes! And we totally agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	I will, of course, also give Mr Kops the floor for his interruption, but then I would like to ask that the Minister have a chance to keep his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	I'm halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	You're halfway there. Well, well, well. It's gonna go faster than we expected. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	The Minister said quite specifically that he is not concerned that jobs would be lost at Eneco. But since the sale of Essent and Nuon 4,000 jobs have been lost there. Then the question to the Minister is: what does he expect no jobs to disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	I said I don't see any reason to think that right now. I have no indications that large quantities of people would have to leave. We consider employment to be extremely important here. But energy supply is not an employment project. It may be that there are reasons to believe that we need to do it more efficiently. Perhaps in the long term this will lead to fewer jobs. I do not see any reason for this, because the transition, under the loud protest of Mr Kops, is primarily costly and therefore more employment. That's what's gonna happen. The energy sector will generate more jobs in the coming years. But even if in one case it were less: this is not an employment project. We in this country promote employment by promoting innovation, by promoting entrepreneurship, by maintaining the locational environment and by ensuring that a lot of Dutch people can work in a lot of parts of the market. You know what's so beautiful? For years, we have seen pressure in the middle of the labour market as a result of global competition. Academics have demonstrated this more than once. We now have an increasing demand for the middle part of the labour market for the first time in 20 years because of this transition. I dare call that the biggest luxury problem in the labour market in 20 years. I'm very happy with it, and at the same time I have a terrible headache, because we're going to have to train all those people later. That's the challenge. It's not about less, it's about more later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	It's a lot of words from the minister. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	But the minister said he has no leads, no indications of job losses. But I think I have just given those indications, namely that the acquisition of Essent and Nuon lost 4,000 jobs. So my question to the Minister is: how are these cases, these takeovers, different from the potential acquisition of Eneco?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	Clear question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	In general, we are likely to see more jobs in the energy sector in the coming years through the transition. I don't see why that would be different with Eneco. The transition takes a lot of investment, with a lot of manpower, a lot of specialties, a lot of installers, a lot of builders. That's what's gonna happen to all of us. Over the next few years, I have a headache about the shortage of those people rather than the possibility that a lot of people would be on the streets. By the way, I'm very happy about this headache.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mrs Beckerman has an interruption, but I had just asked if the Minister could go further in his story. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	No, sorry, Chairman. I actually wanted to post a brief interruption following Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	Like Mr Kops, I am concerned about employment. The sale of Essent and Nuon really lost 4,400 jobs. I will not ask the same question, but one particular thing that has been lost there is that innovation departments, for example, are closed. If we want to ensure cheaper renewable energy, we still need a lot of innovation. Do you share that concern? And how do you intend to ensure this employment? Because that actually happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you. Two questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	We really need to work hard on innovation as part of the transition. That is clear and it is an important part of the climate agreement that we need to conclude. But the ownership of one energy company in the midst of all those many, amidst all those hundreds of thousands of Dutch companies in private hands who have to participate in the transition, is not the way. Ownership is not the tool to promote innovation. There are very different ways of doing that. Moreover, we fully agree on the usefulness of innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention that I am not going to lay down the relationship with an election result in the big cities. Moreover, Mr Van der Lee is actually asking me: if I am in power, what am I going to do? Well, I don't know; that's up to Mr Van der Lee. If he's in all the classes, I'll wait and see, but he shouldn't ask me what he's gonna do. Mr Wassenberg has a different concern. He talks about the heat grid and says he thinks it's an illogical cut. That is interesting in itself, because I did not hear him say that during the debates on the Heat Act. Regulation is clear there at the moment and will be clear in the future. Heat grids become and are subject to regulation, but they do not necessarily become or become public. They are therefore not exempt from sale. We regulate heat grids because we see this as a private monopoly part of the chain, but that can be solved with regulation. This is a bit more complicated for larger nets, but it is perfectly possible to do so here. I invite him to keep an eye on this point in the treatment of the Heat Act 2. Then we have a discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	Have you answered all of Mr Wassenberg's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	No, because I'm not at all with Mr. Wassenberg yet... Oh, yes, that was Mr Wassenberg's first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	Would it be okay if the minister did your block, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	Can I try to finish it? I have a few more general things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	Yes. And then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Wassenberg. The Minister will go on with his story and you will be the first to speak immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	There were two further questions, among others from Mr Van der Lee, about the 'borrower with evil intentions'. This is not a quote from Mr Van der Lee, but there was one of the spokesmen, I think it was Mr Kops, who was talking about the buyer with evil intentions. There is a review for large generators; production plants with a power of more than 250 megawatts can be subject to a review. This concerns public security, security of supply and security of supply. We find these things so important that we also test them. That's clear. If the case arises, so will it. Then I find the story about the price pressure interesting. On average, we see price pressure as something positive. In fact, the whole of competition law is aimed at nothing more than the transfer of benefit to the consumer and not to the producer. Price pressure should not be seen as something negative, but as something positive. It is a policy objective to ensure it, because citizens want affordable energy, even because Mr Kops is so sensitive to it and we all do. That's what competition is for. Then it could be that this will influence uneconomic peaks. We may have to take that for granted. On the other hand, at a time when there are more wind farms at sea, for example, ETS is also starting to bite again and we are expected to get a significantly higher CO price. We also see that if the price gets low, only very low variable cost assets will start to work. And those are just sustainable sources, because they do not use fuel but use more investment. Let's just put it this way. So how that works out, we all have to see, but I see no reason to do so as a result of the sale of Eneco study. It is true that we are, of course, thinking for a long time about the development of the electricity price and trying to measure the instruments. But an amendment to the Competition Act is not in it. In fact, that was also reflected in Mr Van der Lee's speech. But it's not a bad point of attention. I'd like to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	I think this is a beautiful, natural moment to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	Then I'll be with Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	... yet give Mr Wassenberg an interruption, because I promised him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	Let's get back to the heat grids. I was talking about an illogical cut. The minister says he didn't hear me in the heat bill. But of course I have talked very explicitly about lock-in and its dangers. The danger, as I have also said, is that for the next 20 years and perhaps 30 years you will be stuck with that unsustainable heat at the moment you sell Eneco's heat grids to a non-sustainable fossil supplier; that could be Shell or another company. That is why I wanted to mention that now. That's just my very big fear. We can say: there will be a Heat Act 2.0 shortly. But we're making arrangements now. If we don't do that right now, we'll be stuck with it for 20 or 30 years. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. That's my big fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	Would it then be existing Eneco heat grids, which would switch to a less sustainable energy supply at the time we start the energy transition? I don't think a new owner or an old owner would see any reason for that. I don't think we should link ownership to sustainability. I don't know the credentials of another owner, but if the transition has to depend on ownership, then we're a long way from home. The whole society has to go with it, that's what it's all about. It's not just about the government. We're a miniscule energy user. We still have some shareholders through municipalities, but really weep, in one of the smaller energy producers. It shouldn't depend on that. Mr Wassenberg and I should join forces and focus on all those hundreds of thousands of private parties who are all about to change their generation, their behaviour, their assets and their processes. That is a huge task, but it does not depend on this takeover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. I also see Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u99	I would like to return to the point made by the Minister concerning competition. That's what I'm linking to an earlier remark he made. He could not judge this sale because it was about a company in a competitive market. My concern is precisely that we cannot really speak of a normal competitive market in the coming years. This market is not national, but international, and not only in the Netherlands, but in all our neighbouring countries there is a whole range of public interventions that are going to intervene in that market. At least in the beginning, this leads to a huge over-production and over-capacity. That's gonna have huge price effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u100	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u101	Do you want to do research, not necessarily because of Eneco, but precisely because of this coming transition, about whether we do not need instruments in competition to deal with this, such as bottom prices? Let me give you an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u102	This is no strange concern, as is Mr Moorlag's point that I intend to deal with later. They're not weird worries. Mr Van der Lee also acknowledges that it has nothing to do with the sale of Eneco. But it does belong to the regular policy of the Department of Energy, which is also my department to monitor how and if that market works. This has to do with the expectations of the unsustainable summits as well as with the consequences of overcapacity. One of the things being investigated now is the impact of the minimum CO price on the security of supply. This also has certain consequences. Which power stations are actually going to suffer? And what influence does that have on the stability of the system? All these things the department has to keep an eye on me. And it's already happening. In an investigation, therefore, the regular task would be taken into account in a separate investigation. So don't let me promise you that. But the department does exactly this kind of thing. That automatically brings me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr Van der Lee is not quite satisfied yet. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u104	You've got that right, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Ministry has a lot of regular instruments and it is going to use them as well. But if an instrument is needed in the sphere of competition, and we have not prepared for it and created it, then we are almost by definition too late. Does the Minister therefore wish to consider whether we should perhaps carry out an exploratory study in this sphere? Could it be that we need an instrument and prepare it? We don't have to put it in immediately, but we have to have it on the shelf as soon as we need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u105	I am not prepared to investigate the price formation and balance sheet in the electricity market, which is specifically linked to an instrument, while the real problem here is not so clearly articulated. This balance is constantly monitored. There's a lot of thinking about whether things are necessary for this. For example, I have some questions about the connection of non-influenceable suppliers, where the questioners are not being influenced at the moment. That is a very important point. It is, by the way, Mr Moorlag's point that I am trying to reach. All these things are being monitored, but I don't want to tie that to an investigation that goes straight into a particular direction of resolution. I see Mr Van der Lee nodding tiredly. Yeah, it's an important point. We'll keep an eye on that. I do not think the solution lies in the Competition Act. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u106	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Moorlag raises an extremely important question. He's talking about backup during the transition. I dare say no, even backup after the transition. In fact, there is evidence that the further the transition progresses, the greater the need to back up somehow in the form of buffering or in the form of demand adjustment or in the form of sources that can be started quickly in one way or another, even if they are sustainable. That's a permanent concern. He'll even play up to those tables. Once again, very recently, let us say today, I have also spoken to energy producers who are all raising this exact question. This is being worked on, but it is not directly linked to this debate either. Mr Moorlag did not say that either. It's a good point and it's being looked at. Then we have Mr. Kops. At the end of his speech, Mr Kops gave a sneak to the left side of this Chamber, but I have never seen him make such left-wing talk. In communist times this would have been too red: means of production to the State. Well, you have to dare. Let's go! No, I say to Mr Kops. It is not the case that something that is a basic need must always remain in government hands. Our prosperity is due to the fact that we can also work competitively in the production of homes, food, clothing and all kinds of basic needs, including energy. As a result, it remains affordable for all those families which Mr Kops considers to be his supporters, but which many others here in this Chamber consider to be their supporters. That's the way, is my answer to his last question, to make sure the energy bill doesn't get too high for households. I have taken Mr Jetten's questions into account in the general speech, but Mrs Mulder's question on customer data is not. This question is not related to ownership, but also to privacy legislation: dealing with data in an orderly manner. By far the majority of organizations that keep records of us as citizens are private. That is no reason to worry a priori or to intervene, but it is a reason for the institutions that are going to do their work and to enforce the legislation. I have taken the liberty of borrowing a few sentences from Mrs Yeşilgöz in my reply, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I did see some leaves going around. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, one ultrashort and one slightly longer. For the sake of time, I shall confine myself to this and I shall begin with the brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of Eneco's shares are likely to be sold by participating municipalities;]] [[speaks of wanting to keep Eneco in public hands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of Eneco's shares are likely to be sold by participating municipalities;]] [[noting that Eneco is the largest heat supplier in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that, at the time of the split-up of Eneco, the heat grids were chosen not to be housed with the system operator, and therefore now they are included in the sale;]] [[considering the public interest of heat grids;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude these heat grids from a possible sale,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Kops, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-230]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mrs. Beckerman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. In the end, this is an important ideological debate. Maybe not at the level of Eneco alone, but at the level of how we deal with our energy supply. That's what we're gonna do tomorrow. Maybe that's also the place to do it more extensively. As far as my party is concerned, it is not just about keeping things in public, but about democratic control and control for all residents. We see the future in this: local energy corporations, but also large system companies that are really needed, and ensure that people can have a direct influence on this. We don't have that on those big players. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Eneco as one of the greenest energy companies can bring climate goals closer;]] [[noting that the previous sales of energy companies have lost innovation departments and jobs;]] [[considers that maintaining Eneco is in the public interest;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the purchase by the State or other municipalities of the shares of municipalities wishing to sell,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the interruptions have shown, I am not entirely satisfied with the response to competition. I should just like to recall the conclusion of the Energy Agreement 1.0 and the stories I have heard that certain agreements were not possible because they seemed to be contrary to competition law in advance. The ACM was also some kind of referee in that. I am also curious to hear tomorrow how this will be implemented in the forthcoming negotiations, but for the moment I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, during the energy transition, many billions of public money will be invested in the energy sector, to strengthen networks, to finance unsustainable peaks of sustainable alternatives and to promote sustainable innovations;]] [[Whereas, partly due to the fact that sustainable alternatives are above existing fossil energy production capacity, this leads in the short to medium term to over-production of energy, which causes unpredictable price effects and can undermine business cases of sustainable alternatives;]] [[noting that existing competition legislation appears to be at odds with active energy market direction during the transition period;]] [[invites the Government to examine, in consultation with the ACM, whether, and if so, how to adapt and inform the Court of Justice on a temporary and exclusive basis for the purposes of energy transition competition law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Because of the phase of the energy transition, a reasonably chaotic phase in which we are in, support for the Party's motion for the Animals not to proceed with the sale of Eneco from the point of view of caution and precaution at the moment. What the PvdA Group considers important is that the government is going to make arrangements with public shareholders if they move on to alienation. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy transition is an essential public interest;]] [[Whereas energy production and supply companies play a crucial role in the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to agree on sustainable framework conditions for energy production and supply companies in the context of the energy and climate agreement to be concluded when these are disposed of by participating governments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u115	I hope that I have responded to the Minister's objections to not linking matters to the sale of Eneco for a sec. I think I have also met Mrs Mulder's point from the CDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas takeovers by foreign companies often have an impact on Dutch employment;]] [[noting that the sale of Essent and Nuon has lost thousands of jobs;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that jobs are preserved if Eneco is sold,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u118	Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy is a primary need for life;]] [[noting that Eneco is currently owned by 53 Dutch municipalities under public law;]] [[Whereas the sale of shares of Dutch energy companies should stop;]] [[whereas Eneco is a Dutch company and should remain so;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a majority of Eneco shares remain in Dutch public hands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29023-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you. Let me look at Mr Jetten to see if he wants to make use of his second term. No, but Mrs. Mulder will. She doesn't seem to have a motion. Or she takes it out of her head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u122	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't have a motion. However, because of the CDA's concerns about employment and sustainability, we would like the Minister's comfort to have an extra look at how this is going in the coming months. At the same time as he starts to worry about this, we expect him to talk to the shareholders, to the selling party, and to see how he can ensure that interest, because that is what we, as CDA, attach to it. That was my final question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u123	Thank you. I am looking at Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius as to whether she needs a second term. That is not the case. Is the Minister able to respond immediately to all motions? There's a lot of them. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. 230 I shall not speak out. On the motions on items Nos. We have discussed it at length 231, 232 and 233. For that reason, I must discourage them. That is what I am doing with Mr Moorlag's motion on item No. 234, but it deserves a little more explanation. Yes, in the context of the climate agreement to be concluded, agreements on sustainability must be reached with many large companies. In particular, they must do so within the framework of the agreement, but this does not apply specifically to public undertakings or specifically when they are disposed of. That's just generic. I keep saying, no, it doesn't have to do with shareholdership, it doesn't have to do with public versus private. Organisations will have to participate in the climate agreement. That's why I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 235 contains an unfeasible appeal from Mr Kops. Employment is extremely important, and we are doing a great deal about it. This is one of the main topics of the department that I am responsible for, but we do so with generic policies and very generally, but not with all kinds of specific interventions. The guarantee that all jobs will be preserved, I can't give you from this chair. The motion in part No. 236 is about the same as that in part No. 230, but with a "requests the government." I must advise against this for the reason I have explained. I admit, of course, to Mrs Mulder that, if there are reasonable concerns about companies, it is again a matter of reason that the Ministry is going to do so, or that I am going to do so, but that is a matter of real concern. These are all kinds of exceptional cases which are very obvious from time to time, but in the event that there are real concerns it is also being looked at in real terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u125	I would like to give you the opportunity to respond with a few more questions, Mrs Beckerman, but first I would like to ask the Minister a few moments about his assessment of the motion on item No. 230. You said, "I'm not in charge of that." Does that mean "Room" or "Don't recommend"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u126	No, that means I'm not judging. The motion states: "The Chamber pronounces" and so on. That doesn't instruct the government. So it's none of my business. That is something on which I am abstaining from an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u127	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u128	I didn't get a real reaction to the motion in part No. 232, while I think it's a very reasonable idea. Look...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you. I don't want to argue...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u130	But it's actually very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u131	But I'd like to ask you if you could just ask a question. Let's not redo the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u132	No. The question is this. There are now a number of options. You can sell Eneco through an IPO. You can sell Eneco to another power company. You could sell Eneco to other governments, too. That option hasn't actually been explored yet. My motion simply asks: can't you even look at it? Because that might be interesting for the State, I don't see you looking very excitedly or for other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u133	I believe that it is not the role of the State to take shares in energy companies. This is also contrary to this government's policy of participation. Nor am I prepared to investigate other democracies, which are equivalent to this democracy, in one way or another, in order to determine whether they should buy something or not. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman, you disagree. It's okay. It's possible. But the Minister is very clear in his judgment. I give the floor to Mrs Mulder, who has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u135	The Minister indicated that he would take immediate action if he found that the sale would give rise to reasonable doubts about the employment of the Eneco company or its successor in law. Can I explain it like this? 'Cause what if that article's gonna be in a newspaper soon? Do I have to ask for another debate here? Or do we just get immediate action and know that the minister is going to talk? Otherwise, I think it's a bit of a tricky one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u136	With that digitality, I can't promise that. It is not the case that every shrinkage in employment in a particular company immediately sets off the alarm bells in the government. I have mentioned specific examples. We have shared in several letters, divided among three rulers, I think, when a government thus intervenes in the context of'silent diplomacy', as it has been appointed by the CDA. Along these lines, this government will also interfere with those possible situations. But it's not like the alarm bells go off right away when there's a shrinkage somewhere in the employment pool. In the end, it's also just about private entrepreneurship. But if there are things that require more than ordinary attention, then there will be more than ordinary attention. Mrs Mulder is used to that, by the way, from this department, and now also from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u137	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jetten. He has not tabled a motion, but he has been very modest in his interruptions. I shall therefore give him the floor briefly to ask another enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u138	I have another enlightening question following the discussion between Mrs Beckerman and the Minister. Mrs Beckerman has now asked a few times for an investigation. However, I would like the Minister's clear confirmation that there is really no need for an investigation at all, that it is simply the question of whether or not other governments want to buy those shares, that the State or at least this government chooses not to, and that it is up to local democracies to consider that. The question of such an investigation is not relevant at all. The simple question is: do you or do you not want to take over shares from the selling municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u139	I thought that was the spirit of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u140	That is good, because every time Mrs Beckerman talks about this, I see confusion with Mrs Beckerman. But I don't think it's necessary at all. It's crystal clear. There's no need for an investigation. It's whether or not to buy shares. We do not choose to do so in this Chamber. Municipal councils have to make that decision on their own. I'm glad the Minister means that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u141	But that also provokes a reaction from Mrs Beckerman, and I understand that a little bit. I am therefore giving her the opportunity to ask one last short question without having to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u142	I thought I'd made my motion this way charming. I could have also called for the State to buy the shares immediately. I thought we could look into the pros and cons. In my opinion, this could be employment, affordable energy, control of the inhabitants and a sustainable course. I thought this might be worth researching and could help you think again, because the sale of the previous energy companies that were in public hands has had a lot of negative consequences. They are less sustainable, they have fewer jobs and they have closed down innovation departments. Unfortunately, you choose to sell to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u143	Have a drink together, I'd say, and maybe you'll come out. I believe that you are at the end of your second term, Minister, and that is why we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-8.u144	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the Chamber, the few people sitting in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
