ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the Act 34957, Amendment of the Gas Act and the Mining Act on Minimising Gas Extraction from the Groningen Field. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u2	I call Mr Van der Sluijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr President, colleagues and other speakers. Today we are going to debate the amendment of the Gas Act and of the Mining Act on Minimising Gas extraction from the Groningen Field. At first, you'd think, "There's nothing wrong with that." For decades, the soil of Groningen has been stripped of the gas that is in the soil. This has benefited the whole of the Netherlands to a greater or lesser extent. This has resulted in an increase in prosperity for the Dutch population and an increase in the economy. But that the negative effects of gas extraction would be as great as it is now, nobody anticipated at that time in 1962. In the meantime, it appears that the inhabitants of Groningen have not benefited more than the rest of the Netherlands from the extraction of natural gas, while the gas has been pumped away from their homes for decades. Mr. Chairman. So there appears to be a gold mine underneath your house, where others in our country make good decorations and which you yourself as a duped Groninger hardly benefit from. What sense of justice should that give? Worse still, by removing that treasure, the gas, under your house, this is about to collapse. You don't know who to knock on, because the boat's being held off everywhere. The political leaders call in choir that they are behind the Groningers, that the Groningers should live in safe houses, that all damage should be compensated and that the houses should be strengthened. But in reality we leave the Groningers to choke, but not when it comes to the PVV. The damage has now been largely inventoried, but payout remains out. There's training. How much time do the people affected by the extraction of natural gas have to wait? How different is it in Noord-Holland, where in four known damage cases the NAM quickly paid out. Maybe we should move the NAM employee responsible for that very quickly to Groningen. In short, all very distressing. It's gonna happen to you that this situation makes you a prisoner in your own home. You can't lose your house on the pavement because no one wants to buy a crummy house in an earthquake zone. You also have no other money to buy another house in another safe place. If you thought you'd be able to use the house as a supplement to your retirement, you'd be very cheated. If you move into the sad situation of these Groningers, you can only conclude that this situation must change very quickly for the benefit of the Groningers. During the first years of gas extraction, discussions were still ongoing on the creation of a separate investment fund to deal with damage problems of this kind. Former Minister of Finance Piet Lieftinck was a great supporter. In the years 1962-1963 the former Minister of Finance Jelle Zijlstra opposed this. After all, the revenue was too small to create a special fund for it. He feared that the money would still be used for additional public expenditure. Unfortunately, then politicians did not have the vision and the strength to carry it through. Mr. Chairman. It seems obvious to me that the extraction of gas from the Groningen field should be stopped. Nor do I think that there is one group that doubts that, if not my group. No, the crux isn't there. It even leads to political opportunism and populism here and there. Members of parliament and ministers drive down and down to Groningen to cry crocodile tears. Short-sighted plans are being launched. Residents in the gas area are maddened with empty promises, but then they remain empty-handed and severely damaged. Minister Kamp and his successor Minister Wiebes have even promised that the gas extraction of Groningen must be completed by 2030. That was taken into account anyway, but apparently you can score with that. But why didn't Minister Kamp explicitly lay this down in a bill? Why doesn't this minister explicitly include this in a bill? It is absolutely scandalous that this has not yet happened. Every time the residents in the gas area are left with the misery, because there is no action. So the question is: what is the Minister going to do and when? Or is it just empty election promises? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This bill is full of vague talk, such as "to what extent" and "to the pace of." Article 52d is all about the crown. I quote: 'Our minister can change the operational strategy if justified by the safety interest or the social interest associated with not being able to supply final customers with the required amount of low-caloric gas'. In other words, we can go anywhere and nobody knows where he or she is. So random is lurking. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore necessary to consider how gas extraction from this field can be carried out as safely as possible in recent years, while ensuring security of supply. After all, we don't want to be in the cold on winter days. More gas will therefore have to be purchased abroad in the short term. In the world there is certainly still enough in stock. The estimates are up to 2,300 years old. Although some smaller fields are included, we can in any case conclude that it is not up next week. Mr. Chairman. In the deal with ExxonMobil and the Shell, the Minister made a trade-off between security of supply and security risks. In other words, a balance between the interests of the inhabitants of the earthquake zone and the interests of everyone who depends on the gas. That is a truly difficult consideration. In the past decade Shell has made several large gas discoveries on this globe. Why don't we let gas come from there? Already, the European Union is cooperating with Russia for a second gas pipeline, which will double the gas supply from Russia. So my question to the Minister is: where does all that gas go? Mr. Chairman. A new nitrogen plant, worth almost half a billion euros, is also being built. This will and will soon make high-caloric gas from Norway and mainly Russia suitable for our low-caloric gas boilers. Moreover, gas extraction in the Netherlands will not stop for the time being. Pumping into hundreds of small fields, especially at sea, will continue in the coming years. Minister Wiebes has previously stated that extraction at these locations is even preferable to gas imports. In order to help Groningen quickly, an alternative is needed. In order to tempt companies to continue searching for gas in the North Sea, Minister Wiebes even wants to give an additional tax advantage. In this way it must remain lucrative for producers, because winning at sea is relatively more expensive than pumping on land. Mr. Chairman. This agreement, or However, this gas deal, between the Minister, ExxonMobil and the Shell, seems to have not yet been signed. It's been agreed on suspensive terms. As long as they are not fulfilled, the agreement is not binding on the main elements either. My question to the Minister is whether it is true that this deal has not yet been signed. What are the suspensive measures? And is it true that this agreement is based on trust and not on legal enforceability, by missing these signatures? May I draw that conclusion? In this deal, it was also agreed that the NAM limited itself to the payment of damages and the reinforcement notice, the Minister wrote to the Chamber. The Shell and ExxonMobil ensure that sufficient resources are available for this. That's fine. It was also agreed that the NAM would no longer receive 10% of its gas revenues, but 27%. That's gonna be about two billion more soon. Another gift for a few multinationals, let's just say, since the Shell and ExxonMobil both own half the NAM. So you can see that this government would rather give billions to multinationals than to the Groningen people, or to compensate them. Mr. Chairman. I would like to refer to the debate in the House of Representatives. At the very end of the answer in the second term, the Minister quickly announced that Shell and ExxonMobil will pay less to the guarantee fund than we all initially thought. What's going on in those back rooms? This means that the years of training of the NAM thus bear fruit. And that means that the State, in other words the taxpayer, has to contribute more. That's a cigar from your own box, including for the Groningers. But it's a very heavy cigar. If this cigar is to come from its own box, the Minister must make payments as soon as possible. He can hand out douche bags to multinationals, but he leaves our own people in the cold. Then he'll have to get the money back from ExxonMobil and Shell. This secret deal is now blowing back into the Minister's face. No wonder when you're running backroom politics, the House of Representatives falls over you. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister look into the camera here and explain to the Groningers why he still hasn't made the payoff to the doomed? These duped are now proverbially the water not up to the lips, but above. The Groningers are entitled to answer. After Minister Wiebes had picked up the Groninger file, there was initially positivity. In the meantime, the line has been deployed downwards. The PVV finds that very regrettable. Mr President, thank you for your attention and I would like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van der Sluijs. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister on his intention to end gas extraction from the Groningenveld as soon as possible following recent earthquakes. I am less complimentary about a number of parts of the bill on the road to termination. In this respect, I shall, first of all, discuss an inconsistency and a gap in the legislative proposal; secondly, the unbound competence of the Minister to decide on safety of life versus security of gas supply; thirdly, the estimates and uncertainties regarding the operational strategy; fourthly, aspects of psychological and material damage; and fifthly, gas consumption reduction through gas tax rates. My article references are to the proposed legislative amendment. Mr. Chairman. A first requirement of a bill is that it is consistent. This proposal is flawed. Article 52a Mining Act provides a dual definition of safety importance, namely safety risks for residents of the Groningen Field and safety risks for final customers of this gas. However, in Article 52d Mining Act, this dual safety interest is ancillary to the societal importance of gas supply to final customers. Then it is one of two: the definition of safety interest in Article 52a is wrong, or the importance of gas supply to final customers is weighed twice. That is to say, Article 53d is raving. This leads to a terminology confusion in the explanatory memorandum and throughout the proceedings in the Lower House, not least from the ministers side. At least so serious is that this social interest is not defined in the legislative proposal. The Council of State also pointed out this gap, but in vain. This is what the Minister has asked for in the preliminary report with the remarkable reply that the legislative proposal does not provide a definition because elements that would not be included would not be able to be taken into account. No, of course not. So the Minister keeps it vague to give himself some room for manoeuvre. Referring to an earlier cabinet position of the minister, this is something like: the government levyes taxes, but the tax base is not in the law and in practice the government determines it on a case-by-case basis. Mr. Chairman. I don't think we've done this in this country so far. I would ask the Minister to restore this gap and the inconsistency of the legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. By "soon," I mean submission within two months. Mr. Chairman. I come to my second topic. Article 52d Mining Act has not yet been completed with the aforementioned inconsistencies and gaps. The Council of State rightly calls this the crucial article in the legislative proposal. It gives the Minister "an unbound power" I quoted the Council of State to choose between safety of life and security of gas supply. This unbound competence means that Parliament, when adopting the legislative proposal, is in fact out of the loop two times: in terms of competence and control by parliament. Let me take a mundane analogy. If the parliament instructs a minister to levy x% extra VAT, that is quite clear. And the minister can be checked on this. If the mandate is to levy an additional tax on x% of GDP, the Minister may decide how to impose an additional tax, the Parliament may give powers to some extent, but not unbound. Parliament will still be able to control it. But even the limited bondage from the second example is not mentioned in this bill. The Minister may choose freely between risks of life threat and security of gas supply. There is nothing left for Parliament to control because of this unboundity. Parliament delegates: choose, Minister! Afterwards, the Minister can report to Parliament "I have chosen," even if afterwards it turns out that the choice was catastrophic. In reply, the Minister asked by my group: "Parliament can address the Minister on an annual basis on the established operational strategy." Yes, "meet after," but that doesn't change the Minister's unbounded competence. This would be different if the Minister submitted the planned operational strategy to Parliament for approval each year. I would ask the Minister to include this in a further legislative amendment as soon as possible. I would point out to the spokesmen of the other groups that they may have confidence in this minister and in the current government, but we do not make laws for this time. After this government comes another cut, in which some groups may have less confidence. Hence the importance of the annual adoption of the operational strategy in advance. Here's what I'm going to add. The Jetten amendment, concerning Article 52d (5), required the Minister to give serious importance to the security risks posed by the residents of the Groningenveld. But the Minister can then argue that he did so, while his view of security of gas supply is the decisive factor in his choice. In this light, I do not consider this amendment to be effective enough. Hence the change of law commitment I just asked for. Finally, on this point. Article 52d (3) Mining Act refers to a ministerial arrangement for the implementation of the safety standard of 10 and of the different categories of final customers. I would ask the Minister to make a commitment to this arrangement with both Parliament's Chambers. Mr President, I am now discussing the third issue: the estimates and uncertainties on the basis of which the Minister determines the aforementioned operational strategy and his implied choices for the Groningen field. The reasonably reliable estimates relate to the necessary gas supply to final customers by the national network operator. I call them fairly reliable because they can be estimated on the basis of fairly stable empirical figures with a margin of uncertainty regarding winter temperatures. The uncertainty relates to the estimated amount of gas extraction the individual risk of a life-threatening earthquake is greater than 1 in 100,000 or temporarily 1 in 10,000. More specifically, it is likely that an object will be affected by an earthquake with potential consequences for human lives. The Minister leaves this estimate to the NAM under the supervision of the State Monitoring of Mines and TNO. This estimate is based on, on the one hand, unstable empirical figures of earthquakes and, on the other hand, on model assumptions and implications of those assumptions regarding the effects of gas extraction on earthquakes. This is a completely different type of estimate than the estimate of the necessary gas supply by the system operator mentioned above. On 2 October 2018, State supervision of the Mines indicated in a technical briefing to the First Chamber that gas extraction in the next five years is below the temporary safety standard of 1 to 10,000 "that there is probably a 90% chance that the temporary standard will be met for all Groningers. However, it is assumed that the unknown uncertainty is limited." So there are known uncertainties (the mentioned 90%) but also unknown uncertainties. I assume that the model estimates mentioned by the NAM are based on the best scientific knowledge currently available, as indicated by the reply. But that does not alter the fact that the uncertainties are great, partly because of the erratic course of the earthquakes, including those with a strong strength of M>1,5. The KNMI suggested on 17 May 2018: "It is because of the erraticness of the tremors in terms of location and strength not to say how seismicity develops under reduction of gas production." The State surveillance of the Mines endorsed this in the technical briefing just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Given these known and unknown uncertainties about meeting the safety standards for the residents of the Groningenveld, I return to the unbound choice made by the Minister under Article 52d Mining Act. I assume the Minister has thought about the choices he has to make in a catastrophic situation. In the written report, therefore, the SP Group raised the specific questions on which calculated individual earthquake risk and on what actual number of serious injuries and/or deaths caused by earthquakes the Minister moves to partial or general gas closure of final customers. To these specific questions the Court received no answer other than that this requires a more detailed analysis and consideration of "the social costs and benefits of any lower gas extraction below the security of supply." This is an evasive answer to a specific question. And that is why I am asking these two questions again. The previous evasive answer will give little confidence to the neighbors of the Groningen field and it does not give the other inhabitants of this country an insight into what they should prepare for. In any case, my group expects concrete answers from the Minister in the near future. Nor did we get an answer to the question of whether the government is considering evacuating the residents of the Groningengas field in a catastrophic situation, or whether it is planning to enter and facilitate a move to other parts of the country. I also ask the Minister again. Mr. Chairman. My short fourth point concerns the psychological and material damage caused by gas extraction. It is, I suppose, subject to the undefined social interest and social disruption, ex Article 52d, in particular paragraph 2e.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u6	I have a question about your third point, in which you have built up an argument about, among other things, the known and unknown uncertainties. In the very complex situation in Groningen, it is conceivable that there are unknown uncertainties. You can't seal everything with a law. Does Mr Reuten agree with me that there can still be unknown uncertainties?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u7	Yes, I couldn't agree more. But that's not what I'm saying. That's what the State Department of Mines says. In short, this is particularly about what happens underground. The earthquakes themselves can be measured empirically, but what happens underground is not empirically, at least not directly. Those are the unknown uncertainties the State surveillance is referring to. These known and unknown uncertainties together mean that the result of that safety standard of 1 in 10,000 or 1 in 100,000 is the latest known scientific state of affairs, but it nevertheless brings with it great uncertainties. In other words, it is not excluded that next week there will be a major earthquake of a level that we have not yet experienced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u8	And all through the chairman, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u9	O Madam President, of course. But I couldn't look around the corner. Let's see where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u10	On the fourth subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u11	Wasn't that where I started? Okay. My fourth point concerns the psychological and material damage caused by gas extraction. I believe that it falls under Article 52d, in particular paragraph 2e, as I have just said. I hope the Service report will be able to correct that later, but I am not allowed to interfere at all. With regard to this damage, the legislative proposal lacks the anchoring of an end date of gas extraction, and also the statements and notes do not give a hard end date guarantee. I ask the Minister to lay these down legally. This is of course important for the residents of the Groningenveld. Materially, the bill worsens the legal position of the victims of the Groningenveld because the possibility of criminal prosecution of the NAM lapses here. I would ask the Minister to deal with this discrepancy with gas extraction elsewhere, where criminal prosecution is still possible. I also ask the Minister to indicate the relationship of this discrepancy with the agreement on the main lines with Shell and ExxonMobil. I would also like to know how hard or soft the guarantees are that Shell and ExxonMobil will pay indirectly or directly all current and future gas extraction damage. Mr. Chairman. My fifth and final point concerns the extent of gas consumption and its steering through gas tax rates. There are climate reasons for reducing energy consumption, but today I am restricting myself only to gas consumption in the context of the legislative proposal. The Netherlands has a strongly declining tax rate on gas consumption. Moreover, this is more degressive than in neighbouring countries, a recent PwC report suggests for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For the categories that distinguish PwC, the share of the gas tax in the integral gas price falls from 43% for small entrepreneurs to only 7% for the large industry. The Minister tells us that in the event of a catastrophic situation in Groningen there is a risk of total or partial gas closure, starting with companies. What I do not understand is why the government does not react proactively to this question. By imposing the same uniform gas tax rate for at least low-caloric gas as households and SMEs in four steps from 2019 to 2022, in order to encourage them to reduce gas consumption rapidly. The 170 largest consumers alone are losing 5.5 billion m of low-caloric gas per year. This is 20% of the total Dutch consumption. If they are stimulated to reduce gas rapidly, the extraction of gas in Groningen can be reduced. The Minister may try to massage these companies with words, as he states in a number of notes and statements, but we live in an economic system where for companies the measure of things is not words but money. The Minister may be aware of their competitive position, but in the event of gas closure, many companies are in danger of bankruptcy and there is little more competition for them. In the meantime, the Minister can hope with us that very severe earthquakes in Groningen will not occur. But hope does not seem to me to be enough for a government, certainly not in a legislative proposal that, at least in words, seems to take into account a doomsday scenario. Social disruption is referred to in Article 52c of the Mining Act, which the Minister submits to Parliament. This concludes me, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers to my comments, my eight questions and the three commitments I asked for. If necessary, I shall table motions on this subject in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. It was a pleasure to see another written piece of your hand with an extensive nut machine underneath. I missed that for a while. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u13	I would like to join in that compliment, Mr President. I have missed that very much in recent years. Mr. Chairman. If we now, in 2018, reminiscent of the more than 50 billion m of gas that we've only applied for five years, pumped up in 2013, we'll do it with shame on the jaws. How can it be that until recently the winning of as much natural gas as possible was a priority and that the scale of economic gain and not the safety of the Groningen? The earthquakes caused by gas extraction have swept away the foundation under the security experience of the Groningers. And as a country, as a state, we feel a debt of honor to the Groningen people that we must now quickly redeem. There is no doubt about this for the Christian Union Group. Continuous uncertainty and policy inertia are detrimental to the well-being of our fellow citizens in Groningen. And the fact that the reinforcement approach has started so slowly makes this even more painful. But now steps are being taken, even big steps. And it is a real gain that the safety perspective is now at the forefront and that, for the sake of the safety of the Groningen people, the extraction of the Groningen gas will be reduced to zero in just over ten years. That is a policy paradigm change, a paradigm change that my group wholeheartedly supports. Our compliments to the Minister for his courage to break the existing thinking on this point. The demand for low-caloric gas is no longer a given, but is minimised through a series of measures. But this paradigm change takes a lot. It requires tight central control and sharp central direction. It requires a minister who shows his skills as an agile string dancer above the Groningenveld. A number of conditions apply to the success of his mission. The construction of a nitrogen plant near Zuidbroek, which should be operational by 2022, is still in the hands of the Minister. But that is far less true for the large industrial consumers who have to join in their call for voluntary phasing out of the use of Groningen gas. Or to reduce demand for low-caloric gas in Germany, France and Belgium. Just think about the problems with nuclear power plants in the latter country. And is it possible to boost the heat transition in the built environment so much that the demand for low-caloric gas will decrease substantially towards 2030? My group asks the Minister, in his term, to consider the feasibility, security and risks of his own laudable efforts to reduce the demand for low-caloric gas. Where are the vulnerabilities? What are the binding measures or measures, for example in the case of large consumers, and how effective will they be? And how does all this relate to the climate agreement, which in its effect shows the necessary poaching? 2030 is the point on the horizon. But is there also a possibility of a higher acceleration of the phasing-out? In the run-up to this plenary debate, many questions have been asked, including by my group, about the new dual security concept as set out in Article 52d. In other words, security for the residents and security of supply for customers. The latter is referred to as "social interest." The Council of State, we all know, recommended that the safety interests of residents should be clearly taken into account. The Minister, for example, stated in the note on the report in the Lower House, "gives priority to the safety of the Groningen people." And that's the way it should be. Nevertheless, the distinction remains somewhat constructed, somewhat artificial. After all, the collective damage to the safety of the Groningen by soil movement is an obvious form of social disruption for the region. And with that, its solution is an equally obvious social interest. Will the Minister respond to this statement? The bill implies that the minister takes the central direction, I told you, and deliberately takes control. He determines how much gas can be extracted for security of supply. It shall determine the operational mining strategy, following the advice of the NAM and the State's supervision of the Mines. He supervises, hears the ACM and the State surveillance, and he weighs the total balance of interests. In short, the Minister decides how much gas can be pumped up. For this balancing of interests, the legislative proposal lays down further criteria, including the safety standard of 10, the guarantee of security of supply for final customers, the rate of demand reduction, the rate of strengthening of buildings and the social disruption by soil movement. The Minister makes that full assessment. He also speaks elsewhere of a "administrative balance." But the question now is, of course, how the Minister makes this balance between these individual decision criteria. Do they all weigh up? Or does the Minister assign different weights to the interests of residents, of businesses, of consumers, of organizations, of exporting countries? And how does this trade-off work? My group needs a reasoned answer to this crucial question of weighting decision criteria. After all, it is the weighting that will make the difference in this dossier. My group continues to regret the fact that the Minister has not tabled an overarching legislative proposal which fully incorporates the phasing-out of gas extraction, safety, damage recovery and damage resolution. From the perspective of the people affected in Groningen, these are not individual quantities, but intrinsically linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr Ester spoke of an integrated phasing-out plan. At that point, I can very much agree with him. But he also mentioned a paradigm shift.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u17	Those are all words that are in line with what the Party for Animals wants. But then I hear him talking about that nitrogen factory. Does Mr Ester agree with me that such a nitrogen plant does not fit in with the paradigm shift? Because a quarter of a billion dollars is being put into that factory. So we are, as it were, going for an alternative to the Groningen gas extraction to gas from a nitrogen plant. We'll be investing in it for years to come. So we just invest in the next gas again. Does Mr Ester agree with me that we should not opt for that nitrogen plant and all kinds of other investments in fossil, but that we should follow up on this paradigm shift and really focus on renewable energy sources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u18	We have short-term measures and we have short-term measures. We also need the low-caloric gas in the coming years just to keep the Dutch economy running when it comes to consumers and especially when it comes to producers. This paradigm change is extremely important. I'm also very glad you recognize that. But you don't do this from Monday to Tuesday; you need a little more time for that. In these measures in the very short term, it is, unfortunately, necessary to add them, and I believe that this is something that is very difficult to deal with. But I understand very well that you say that in the long term, or perhaps in the less long term, everything must be focused on sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u19	I also say to you, Mr Ester, through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u20	Certainly, Mr President, I am going to work very hard on that. I was talking about those individual greats. Groningers don't disconnect it in their heads, of course. For them, these are existential problems. And the solutions to this are now dealt with in three separate legislative proposals. The first of these is now before us. This is a burden on and on the scope of today's debate. Why did the Minister choose this administrative salami strategy? The strengthening approach is slow and appears to be very complex, although it is being worked hard. The Minister has announced that he will assume the legal responsibility for strengthening buildings in Groningen. The question is, of course, when will the Minister come forward with this bill that is so important to Groningen? Can he give us a more detailed description of this bail-out? A similar question concerns the rapid and correct resolution of damages. This, of course, is extremely important for Groninger's safety experience. There are now, as we understand, thousands of damage cases waiting at the TCMG. Is this delay now a start-up problem or is there a structural problem? How does the Minister judge this? Does he see possibilities for acceleration there? This legislative proposal on the minimalisation of gas extraction is of particular importance for the people of Groningen. But all the Dutch will suffer the consequences of a rapid phasing-out. This also applies to companies and institutions. It affects all of us. The Christian Union Group therefore calls for a very careful and intensive communication with all concerned about these consequences and certainly with the Groningen themselves. My group would like to hear what the Minister's plans are for him to do about this communication. Mr. Chairman. Finally, if we take a step back and look at the whole playing field, the essential question arises as to whether all the proposed solutions are sharp and well aligned. This involves a rapid reduction of gas extraction in the Groningen field, repair and settlement of the damage, the construction of the already mentioned nitrogen plant, the use of large consumers and the reduction of gas exports, the sustainability of energy options and the viability and economic revitalization of Groningen. Taking the central direction and returning the direction to the political domain is one, but having properly aligned the elements of that approach itself is two. My group would like to ask the Minister for a motivated reflection on this issue which is so important for the success of this new approach. As a result, I have the question of how the decommissioning and disposal of the existing infrastructure will be undertaken. Mr President, I shall conclude. The Christian Union Group supports the Minister's efforts to draw the direction of this tricky Groningen gas file and accelerate the reduction of gas extraction. It is a matter of great public interest, and that requires strong public guidance. The safety of the Groningers must be guiding in this. The Netherlands owes Groningen, we now have to pay that debt, even literally. Last week, the National Programme Groningen, which is intended to lead to a viable, future-proof and safe Groningen, is, we think, a good kick-off. In view of this broad interest, I would like to ask the Minister, in conclusion, to thoroughly evaluate the functioning of this and the two other legislative proposals. Do you think he could agree to that? My group is looking forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u21	I would like to talk to Mr Ester about Article 52 of the Mining Act. Overall, two constellations are conceivable. The first one runs a bit according to the pattern of the earthquakes that have occurred so far, a pattern which we hope will not get any more serious. But those aren't certain. The uncertainty, then, is that there is a catastrophic situation of a once again violent earthquake, after which all model outcomes need to be adjusted. Then, depending on the severity of such an earthquake, we may find ourselves in a catastrophic situation. At that time, a minister, a government, must choose between continued gas extraction or gas closure. You have some optimism. I like that, but you have to be a politician, as a government, we're not, he's there, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u22	You mean the minister, Mr. Reuten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u23	I'm out of character.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u24	You mean the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u25	That's the one. He is part of the government, he speaks on behalf of the government. If there is another government there, and that could happen, do you have confidence in the choice between life and security of supply that that government makes? Because the choice between them gives out the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u26	I was just looking for the question in Mr Reuten's speech, but it has become me. I tasted a deceptive lesson in that. Thank you for that, I take it to heart. Yes, and I really can't answer your question about coming governments for you. We now have to deal with the situation as it arises, which is a very urgent matter, and urgent action must now be taken. The Minister does that with the paradigm change. Well, that's got to be it. I do not know whether future governments will join them. I can't see that far. Maybe you can. But it does not, I think, make the debate much stronger to take into account now. We have to act now, it is now an urgent situation, which you also strongly point out in your speech, which fits this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u27	Can I have one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u28	Yes, but briefly, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u29	Mr. Ester didn't understand my question after all. The question is not what should happen in the short term, but what should happen in a catastrophic situation and who decides on it. Because for such a catastrophic situation, this bill gives the decision out of the government's hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u30	In this case, even literally, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u31	I think this was part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u32	Oh, that was part of the question. I didn't think so. If the situation is catastrophic, the Minister will also have a different attitude to make. But he can say that much better himself than I do, I don't have to do that for him. At the moment, we are acting on the basis of the urgency that is now before us. It is good to limit ourselves to that. If there are catastrophes, Mr. Reuten, then everything changes, including your own approach, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u33	Finally, Mr. Reuten, I'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u34	Then the Chambers have nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u35	Of course we have something to say about that. We can call a minister to account, and we will certainly do so in that situation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. Under the previous Rutte/Asscher cabinet, the gas crane opened wide. In 2013, 53 billion kuub was won. The safety of the inhabitants of Groningen was subordinated to economic gain. It was a crisis and the State could use the proceeds of gas extraction very well. But the consequences didn't lie. Many earthquakes have hit Groningen since then. Some heavy, some lighter. But they always caused damage. Lots of damage. To houses and buildings, to businesses and institutions, to medieval churches and especially to people. People of Groningen felt and felt abandoned. By the NAM and by the government. People living in the area are still not safe. The uncertainty about the tremors continues and the government fails to strengthen homes and repair damage until now. It still seems that we have no idea how to deal with this crisis. It still seems that we have no idea how to deal with this crisis. Thousands of inhabitants of the earthquake area have been waiting for years to recover and compensate for damage. Their files turn out to be empty after years of waiting, literally. There is only a name, an address and a notification, and in the meantime there is a huge bureaucracy around reinforcement and damage recovery. At the moment, more money goes to bureaucracy than to compensation for damage. The NAM has also failed. This also applies to the companies behind the NAM. Shell and Exxon... and to the government. Because we often forget that: the Dutch State has benefited most from the gas benefits, which unfortunately we have not used for structural strengthening of our economy but each year, in favour of all of us, made up. The backgrounds of gas extraction, the similarities between the State and the companies, have always been secret. In an earlier debate, now two years ago, I asked Minister Kamp to reveal them to us. That could not be; that would be too precarious. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, today we review the bill to reduce gas extraction from the Groningen field, next year to 19 billion cubic metres and in a few years to the relatively safe 12 billion cubic metres, as the State surveillance on the Mines recommended. This is an intermediate step in order to end up in 2030. This is a radical change which the current cabinet announced last year. I would like to congratulate the Minister for this, because I would like to remind you that two years ago this step was unthinkable. We reduced it a little bit then. There was no other way, according to the minister at the time. Contracts at home and abroad and the secret agreements in the gas building made it impossible to phase out. But that wasn't the truth. Dismantling is indeed possible. Disposal is necessary for safety, for the environment and also for economic reasons. Mr. Chairman. Because of everything that has happened, there is great distrust of citizens and their representatives in the province of Groningen. Now that there is a proposal to bring the extraction of gas to the 12 billion cube in a few years and then to zero, we get many letters to be against it in particular. The Groninger Gasberaad calls us to that, too. Now that the NAM is being removed, as advocated earlier by virtually everyone, and the State accepts its responsibility, citizens want to continue to address the NAM on the previously unfulfilled responsibility. Mistrust prevails. Are you sure this proposal is correct? Does the Dutch State really intend to stop gas extraction? Then why is there not a concrete timetable in this proposal for a law? Does the Minister now give priority to the safety and well-being of the Groningen people? And why isn't there a concrete recovery plan now? And then why doesn't this announced reinforcement operation keep getting underway, when the Groningers are still not safe? Those are sincere questions that deserve an answer. The D66 Group regrets the fact that there is no comprehensive proposal to repair and strengthen and reduce mining. That is why we want to hear from the Minister in a very concrete way when the old damage has been dealt with and when the reinforcement operation, which is going to last for many years, is taken up, what the conditions and assumptions are, and what the legal position of the residents is in the direction of the State and towards the cause of the damage, the NAM. Mr. Chairman. Many believe that this bill is not really necessary. Under the current Mining Act, Article 50, the Minister can already intervene in mining and reduce it. Then why a new bill? What's behind this? And then the assumptions and the clouded distrust resurface. The D66 Group reads it this way: under the current Mining Act, the cabinet cannot prevent the NAM from gaining more gas than is necessary for the security of supply. The current law does not give the Minister any tools to go to a phasing-out scenario. The Minister can only intervene now in the event of an emergency. If that is not at the heart of this proposal, I ask the Minister. Without this proposal, the NAM will continue to run the buttons and will not be set at a distance. Moreover, this proposal only allows gas to be extracted from the Groningen field if it is not possible to supply suitable gas in any other way. In short, on the basis of this proposal, the NAM should never gain more than is necessary for the final customers. That is how we read this proposal. I ask the Minister if this interpretation is correct. Mr. Chairman. In the coming year, we will record gas extraction at 19 billion cubic metres under normal conditions. The Minister writes that the gas extraction from the Groningen field will come under the relatively safe 12 billion cubic metres by 2022 at the latest. In fact, this means that in 2022 the cabinet guarantees that the Groningers will come under the same security conditions as the other Dutch, namely 10. In short, we accept that it is a good thing that this relatively unsafe situation lasts for two to four years. The reinforcement operation is therefore urgently needed to minimise the risks. Mr. Chairman. In Article 52d, in addition to the security interest for residents, the Cabinet introduces the security interest for customers in the sense that security of supply of different categories of final customers is ensured. In the bill, the Minister defines the operational strategy for the Groningenveld. In doing so, he takes into account the safety importance and societal importance of not being able to supply final customers with the necessary amount of low-caloric gas. That's how it says it literally. In a ministerial arrangement, the Minister lays down detailed rules. Can the Cabinet inform the Chamber of this development of rules in the ministerial regime? The Council of State and also the House of Representatives were critical of Article 52d, which has now been slightly amended, inter alia by the Jetten amendment. We understand that you want to avoid social disruption, which may have major economic consequences, from a direct stop to gas extraction or an even faster reduction in extraction, but for our group, the safety importance of residents cannot be subordinated to the economic importance. By coming up with a phasing-out scenario for gas extraction and doing so quickly, the Minister also indicates to us that he gives priority to the safety of Groningers and puts it first, but he says that he also needs a transitional period in order to make a weighting of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u38	I am pleased that the D66 Group has taken this position, but I would like to draw Mr Pijlman's attention to the article of law. It states that a major importance must be attached to the safety of the Groningen people, to put it briefly, but it does not say that this must outweigh the importance of security of supply. It doesn't say that. In that sense, the added article says something, but it does not say enough. It doesn't say what you just said, which is that it's primary. By "you," I mean Mr. Pijlman, Mr. Chairman. Sorry, I'm just getting used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u39	Keep it brief, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u40	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u41	Yeah, it's obviously up to Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u42	It doesn't say it's more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u43	I read it this way, and I have just said it: as the Minister moves to a zero scenario, he indicates that he has to make a temporary weighting that takes priority over the security of residents, but we accept.. and the cabinet, too, I think that you have a temporary situation that requires you to make that weighting. If we stop right now, and that would be the consequence of Mr Reuten's position, I think, then that social disruption is now a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u44	Once again, I welcome the position of the D66 Group, but I note that the Jetten amendment does not state that the interest of the Groningen is primary. It merely states that this is a major interest and it does not state that it is a greater interest than the supply interest. If this bill were to be accepted, we would have to deal with this law and not with the position of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u45	It always is. We are dealing with the law and not with the position of the D66 Group. It also leads to a bit of a repetition of moves. The D66 Group believes that the cabinet has given priority to the security of the residents of Groningen by presenting a phasing-out scenario. At the same time, the cabinet, like my group, recognizes that if you stop mining immediately again: that would be the consequence of your stand-up, and that cannot be the consequence of our social disruption. Temporarily, you're gonna need this weighing. At the same time, as this temporary situation arises, I call on the Minister to take immediate action to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u46	Finally, Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u47	I want to deny that I said that the extraction must go to zero today. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u48	No, you did not say that, but I say that this is the ultimate consequence of your position. Mr. Chairman. The strengthening operation is the responsibility of the cabinet in this proposal, as laid down in Article 52g of the Mining Act. The bill that regulates public implementation still needs to be consulted. When's it gonna come up? We urge the cabinet to act in the spirit of this draft proposal and to start immediately with a major reinforcement operation. We urge the Minister to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in Groningen so that it can provide work for the region. I'd like a response. When the cabinet manages to implement the reinforcement operation, the cabinet puts the security interests of the inhabitants of the earthquake area first. Moreover, it is of the utmost importance that communication to residents and those who have harm becomes unambiguous, because that is not regulated either. For example, it is not up to people first to inform that reinforcement is necessary as soon as possible and then to stop it again until further analyses have been carried out. That is right to cause a great deal of unrest and to increase the mistrust towards the government. It also underlines the inability of the public authorities to manage this operation so far. By the way, it is good to realize that the reinforcement operation only means that a resident of a reinforced building can safely go outside in the event of a severe earthquake. But after such a quake, even after the reinforcement operation, the entire infrastructure could be destroyed and the house or building in question ready for demolition! If the Minister is to be able to move to the relatively safe 12 billion cubic metres as soon as possible, as the SodM recommends and recommends, it is imperative that some large users leave the gas as quickly as possible or that they are offered other gas by building a nitrogen plant that can convert high-caloric gas into low-caloric gas. The previous cabinet has just stopped the construction of this factory. This cabinet wants the factory operational as soon as possible. When does the Minister expect the nitrogen plant to be operational? What are the costs of the construction and who takes over the operation? The Minister is in talks with the major consumers in order to speed up extraction in the Groningen field. Conversion to Norwegian gas via the nitrogen plant is a possibility. We support this, also in connection with the cessation of extraction, but it would be better if a sustainable solution were to be adopted immediately. For some large consumers this seems to be possible, for others a temporary solution will be more obvious. How does the Minister promote direct transition to a sustainable solution? What instruments does he have at his disposal and is he prepared to submit an annual review of the situation to the Court? The Minister is optimistic about the possibilities for companies to reduce the use of Groningen gas. But what if it doesn't work out for one way or another? What instruments does the cabinet have to force companies to switch to other forms of energy? In the reply, the Minister is not very clear on my questions about this. That is why I ask the Minister to clarify this here. After all, it is crucial to achieve zero levels by 2030, also in order to achieve the CO targets of the cabinet. In last Friday's climate letter, the cabinet is right to return this mission to the companies, while companies, through the climate table, tried to bill the taxpayer. One aspect that has so far received little attention is the security of supply to the foreign partners covered by contracts. According to the previous cabinet, it was impossible to reduce gas extraction, partly because of these contracts. This Minister contacted the buyers to conclude the contracts. That too is essential for the reduction of extraction. So, what's been going on so far? Can the Cabinet inform us about this? Annex to this proposal is the agreement that the cabinet concluded with Shell and Exxon on gas extraction. This agreement is not for this. The agreement was, of course, discussed in the Lower House. Important for today and for the inhabitants of the earthquake area is that the Dutch State is now fully responsible for the reduction of extraction, damage recovery and reinforcement. That's the core for us. Among these are agreements with NAM, Shell and Exxon, which will bear some of the costs but have also stipulated mining conditions that are subject to criticism. Those underlying documents are currently difficult for us to assess, because the States-General has never had an insight into the previous agreements made around the gas building in the 1960s, resulting in a lack of transparency. For this it is important that there is now a point of contact for residents where they can go for damage-handling and reinforcement, and that is the State. It is up to the State to make agreements with the NAM, Exxon and Shell. In doing so, we are convinced that for those who suffered damage, public law is better than private law. Moreover, the legislative proposal does not change the legal position of citizens. Mr. Chairman. The proposal changes the position of the Minister in the extraction plan. In this proposal, GTS estimates the amount of gas to be extracted, the Minister, under Article 52d, asks for advice, adopts the draft extraction plan, obtains views and arrives at a final decision. NAM and GTS then report on this. The State supervision of the Mines supervises the NAM and ACM supervises the proper performance of the GTS. And with that, the circle is complete. We believe that this method of achieving an operational strategy is a major improvement. The Minister's on the move. The States General is controlling him. In order to do this properly, it is important that all the advice given, for example from the State surveillance of the Mines, should be publicly available. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, Minister Wiebes and Deputy Gräper presented the National Programme Groningen. Along three lines that will be drawn up over the next two months, investments will be envisaged to strengthen the economy of Groningen. A good step forward in this dossier. After all, this has not yet been done. There are 20,000 people working in the fossil energy sector in the North Netherlands. At the same time, the economy and jobs are growing significantly in the city of Groningen and the city of Groningen has the most start-ups in the Netherlands after Amsterdam. This programme now aims to stimulate growth in order to create new and necessary jobs. That is a new and hopeful response to this difficult dossier. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back again on the damages and reinforcements. In two months' time, will the Minister present us with a recovery plan and a reinforcement plan with concrete and realistic performance targets, accompanied by clear and unambiguous communication towards residents and a concrete timetable, so that the States General can follow implementation through a quarterly short-term accountability? Groningen has waited too long and the implementation of these proposals must now be undertaken. I would like a response from the Minister. We are considering a motion on this point. Mr President, the D66 Group awaits the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u49	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u50	Madam President, thank you very much. As a fifth speaker, there will undoubtedly be some repetitions in my text and perhaps also in the texts of the speakers after me, but I think that underlines the specific answers that we would like from the Minister. Madam President. Optimal use and maximum protection, that is the adage of the Structure Vision Underground, which also circulates in The Hague these days and which actually deals with all the action in the deep subsurface, especially in mutual and three-dimensional coherence. That balance was lost in Groningen, or maybe it never was. But we didn't realize that because originally, with the emphasis on original, not much was happening, although, as I say with great emphasis, we have to acknowledge that from the very beginning serious warnings sounded in Groningen and Northern Netherlands. After the earthquake in Huizinge in August 2012, the world in Groningen may not have changed forever but at least for a very long time. Madam President. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to remind the House of the statement in my maiden speech that the mining dossier was not as virgin to me as the term "maiden speech" suggests. I was a member of the Mining Council for several years, until my arrival in your Chamber in July 2016 and in 2013 at the request of Minister Kamp, I led a three-headed steering committee that had a directing and coordinating role in relation to the original eleven investigations launched after the earthquake in Huizinge on behalf of the Ministry. I should also like to mention that I have never had anything to do with the proposals before. Madam President. What the Groningen gas dossier shows to this day is that we still do not know. That's not surprising either. The Groningen Field is the largest gas field under land in the world where now induced earthquakes occur. In short, there is no comparison material. Fortunately, we can also see that the knowledge of all parties together, SodM, TNO, NAM, knowledge institutions and others, has increased enormously since 2012. That was also clearly discussed during the technical briefing last Tuesday. During that technical briefing, SodM and TNO also made it clear that we still don't know everything but that we know more and more since 2012. Just, not all of it, and that makes the Groninger gas file a dossier of dilemmas. That is not an optimal observation for the inhabitants of Groningen, but it is the reality. However, haste is certainly needed for all inhabitants of Groningen and certainly those from the Groningen gas area, in order to form a real, trust-based future perspective. This proposal is taking important steps in the eyes of the VVD Group. The VVD commends the Minister for his courage to take this rigorous step on behalf of the entire cabinet, by the way, explicitly and coordinated in conjunction with other necessary pathways. Not easy and not yet done, but in the view of my group it is absolutely necessary. For the cabinet sees an old-fashioned gas extraction from the Groningen field flanked by a massive recovery and reinforcement operation not as a stable and socially desirable future scenario. The VVD Group is well aware that only legislative proposal 34957 is now before us for assessment. However, that legislative proposal is inextricably linked to other necessary decisions and therefore only safe, in several respects safe, and effective when a number of other parallel traces are being dealt with swiftly and properly. And those tracks can be divided into physical aspects and legal pathways. The members of the VVD Group thank the Minister for his exhaustive and detailed answer to the written questions in two rounds of this Chamber. The present legislative proposal opens the way to the implementation of the "no more than necessary" principle, taking into account the seismic safety for the Groningen people and the security of health and social safety from the point of view of security of supply at home and abroad. The weighting and argumentation of these different security interests is closely listening, as the Council of State also notes. The guarantee of these interests and the increased obligation to state reasons regarding the security risks for residents of the Groningenveld area were defeated in Article 52d (2) and (5) of the Mining Act as well as the related written explanations of the Minister. However, my group also attaches great importance to a more detailed explanation and interpretation of this point in this Chamber of the Minister. Madam President. The VVD Group disagrees with those who do not consider the present legislative proposal necessary. After all, they claim, reduction in gas production can also be achieved on the basis of current legislation. That's right. However, what cannot be imposed under the current legislation is that "no more than necessary" principle linked to the Gasunie Transport Services contract that gas from the Groningen field should be regarded as the final component in the supply of low-caloric gas. What can also not be regulated on the basis of the current legislation is the win obligation imposed on the holder of NAM to continue to win, even if this is no longer economically attractive. This is essential for this comprehensively appointed security of supply. With regard to the necessary physical measures, the Minister's four-track policy is to reduce demand for low-caloric gas as quickly as possible to zero, with a target date of 2030, and with routes of conversion and enrichment of high-caloric gas and low-caloric gas respectively. In view of this interdependence and the judgment we have requested on the feasibility of these various aspects of security, the members of my group ask the Minister to provide us with an insight into his expectations of these planned developments, so that the objectives of this legislative proposal can also be achieved. The Minister has already addressed this in his written reply, but we would ask the Minister once again to deal more specifically with the transition from large industrial consumers to renewable energy sources or high-caloric gas, also in view of the current branching of the associated high-caloric gas network. The cabinet is currently following the path of voluntary action, in which a solution must be found before 2022, as we read. The Minister has a more compelling track behind him. I agree with Mr Pijlman's questions. Can the Minister explain the tastes of this compelling process and at what point in time he would like to do so? A second question on this point concerns the progress of discussions with foreign countries on drastic reductions in our exports. How are these talks going? The members of my group are asking the Minister. And is Nord Stream 2 with high-caloric gas, for example, going to play an essential role in this? We would also like to hear concrete answers from the Minister to these questions. Madam President. The current legislative proposal and the subsequent legislative proposals are particularly decisive in terms of the pursuit of public care obligations for, and the implementation of, respectively, the extraction, the settlement of damages, the reinforcement operation and the determination of the fall in value of houses and other buildings through an independent Advisory Committee on Value Reduction. Our questions concern the third envisaged law regarding the public direction and implementation of the reinforcement operation. This is essential for the seismic safety of the Groningers, together with the reduction of the volume of gas to be extracted, and for achieving the standard 10 for all buildings in the earthquake zone as soon as possible. When is this bill scheduled to be submitted and what exactly is this bill going to do? After all, the new Article 52g (3) of the Mining Act already places responsibility for the direction and implementation of the reinforcement operation on the Minister. We also ask the Minister whether the NAM loses its position as contract holder of the Centre for Safe Living and, if so, when. When will the reinforcement operation actually start, for example immediately after the publication of the opinion of the Mining Council, which we have understood, is scheduled for this week? In conclusion, my group still has the question to the Minister as to whether the NAM is completely out of the system after the complete legislative process has been completed, obviously independently of its commitments and regardless of its duty of care with regard to safe extraction and proper implementation of the operational strategy. Or are there still or not necessary loopholes for the NAM? Madam President. I would like to refer to the letter from the Groninger Gasberaad which we received on 2 October. This letter calls for the draft bill to be put on hold until the full package of legislation is ready. This letter talks about loose ends and a foggy future. My group fully agrees that vagueness must of course be avoided, but does not support the call for a brake today and now. The VVD Group endorses the Minister's wish to align the decision of consent for the gas year 2018-1019 as far as possible with the objective of the present legislative proposal, which makes it possible to take into account the safety importance and societal importance of the security of supply in that forthcoming consent decision. Madam President. To complete the palette, I would like to add a few words to the agreement on the broad lines between the State and the NAM-mothers Shell and ExxonMobil. This is inextricably linked to the legislative proposal before us. The NRC put it as follows on 5 October: the State and the NAM have signed the divorce papers, but they remain condemned to each other for years. But the time of the gas building as a closed stronghold focused on consensus, as the Research Council for Security appointed it in 2015, is really over. Percentages and numbers are now public and clear that the NAM remains liable even after 2030, according to the Minister. However, on 1 October, the Minister writes to the House of Representatives that at the end of 2019 and in the event of a mining decline below 12 billion cubic metres, it will be considered in consultation whether the guarantees provided should be updated. What is the rationale behind this possibility of revision? The members of my group are asking the Minister. In other words, will Shell and Exxon actually drink the damage and reinforcement cup to the last drop? Madam President. I started my argument with the characterization of the Groningen dossier as a dossier of dilemmas. There are, and they'll be there for now. Recognising and openly naming these dilemmas here in The Hague and in Groningen will contribute to the speed of the solutions to be achieved. Madam President. I'm closing up. The present legislative proposal aims at important steps. But without the successful and structured trajectories of the parallel tracks mentioned, this proposal could simply end in beauty and extremely good intentions. For this reason, too, the members of the VVD Group await with great interest the Minister's concrete answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. We have received a great deal of information from the government in a short time on aspects of the gas extraction problem in the Groningen field. I refer to the letters of 1 and 5 October on the damage approach, the main agreement, the National Programme, the technical information of State surveillance and so on. In this context, I would like to focus my speech today on four points. The first is the fixing of the final objective of phasing out gas extraction. The second point is Parliament's involvement in this. The third point is the weighting of the interests of security of supply and security of supply. The fourth point is the apparent haste that the Minister is in with this bill, while the proposals for a final settlement of damages and the reinforcement operation are still on the way. Mr. Chairman. Today, for the Labour Party, the issue at the heart of this debate is whether the legislative proposal meets in terms of providing legal certainty and feasibility. In replying to the written questions, the Minister of EZK provides additional information on the procedures and legal position of the Empire. Our group would like to thank the Minister for this information, but at the same time notes that the answer is disappointing. In response to our questions about the desired legal definition of the basic path of phasing out gas extraction in this bill, the Minister states that the implementation of ministerial regulation will take place and that the States General will be informed of this. The letter from the government to the House of Representatives of 29 March last sets out the basic path for this, but that is only a plan, not legislation. Mr. Chairman. There are two steering buttons here: the reduction of gas extraction and the reinforcement operation. The first control button wants to operate the minister himself; the phasing-out rhythm set out annually in the decision on the operational strategy of the NAM depends on his future assessment. It is, of course, a good thing that the Minister has fully decided that gas extraction should go to zero. My group fully supports that. However, the law before us today does not contain a specific date on which gas extraction will go to 12 billion cubic metres. Nor does the law contain a date on which the gas extraction is terminated. The States-General as co-legislator can wait for a ministerial arrangement in a file with a very high social interest and administrative sensitivity. The Labour Party really considers this a responsibility of the States-General and the Government together. After all, we note that the proposed legislative method runs counter to the firm views of the First Chamber on delegated regulation. Over the past 20 years, the First Chamber has repeatedly and consistently asked the government to lay down core standards of a legislative complex not in delegated regulations, but in the law itself for the sake of clarity and legal certainty. He's not here right now. I'd like a response from the Minister. This is all the more so since the government recognizes with great care the need for new legislation in favour of more binding measures in relation to our questions about the non-binding nature of its approach. "This bill does not provide a basis for prescribing such a track by ministerial regulation," the Minister writes to the Chamber. The conclusion that the Minister does not lay a firm foundation for the reduction task for industry, for example, in this legislative proposal, is inevitable. Does the Minister agree with us that this is highly undesirable? If so, why didn't he have any consequences? If not, why not? I come to my next point when it comes to predictability and transparency. In his last reply, the Minister states: "Give priority to Groninger's security does not mean that I should no longer consider security and the social consequences of security of supply." We are not fighting this, but we do have questions about what information and insights the Minister needs about these social consequences. What is the bandwidth of the necessary or minimal security of supply he has estimated before serious social consequences occur, we ask the Minister. Can he describe these quantitatively and qualitatively? And how are these objectiveized in the balancing process and made insightful? The reference to Gasnet's inventory does not exempt the Minister from making a substantiated and quantified analysis of his statement that he is committed to a reduction as quickly as possible without major social disruption. Screens with terms such as "security of supply" and "needed" make the trade-off in itself unclear and follow-up. The fact that gas demand is elastic is not denied in the light of our questions. The extent to which this will be substantiated in the light of the desired direction by the Minister remains vague. The Minister does not, of course, attach any importance to fiscal or other more binding instruments. The way in which the Minister will then give priority to the security interests of the Groningers remains unclear. The total gas demand is presented as a simple sum of the needs of small and large customers, businesses and households without further prioritization, and savings opportunities; only the conversion with nitrogen steers this. The PvdA is deeply concerned that the additional necessary measures will be shifted to the future. After all, the Minister writes: "If, in the coming years, calculations according to the established method would show that the risks of Groningen gas extraction would be too high (...) the government will do everything in its power to bring the risks within the safety standard and the associated risk policy." Surely the Minister must agree with us that this is far too vague and should be dealt with in the legislative proposal before us? If not, why not? Why doesn't the Minister choose a reverse approach? A determination of the extraction quantity from the Groningen field on the basis of an estimate of the lower level of security of supply without major social disruption is not presented, whereas it could be appropriate to steer savings and rationing measures in the various sectors. In the opinion of the PvdA, for example, instead of appealing to the Distribution Act or to the State of Emergency, the support for reduction under Article 52d (3) could provide a basis for this. Is the Minister prepared to offer a coat rack for this in the ministerial arrangement? The Council of State has destroyed the previous assent decision, inter alia, because the Minister has not justified why there are no circumstances that force the extraction of less gas than is necessary to meet the security of supply. This threatens to happen again. Only a reference to the 1:100,000 standard to be achieved in the long term does not seem sufficient to us. The implementation of this standard has not been developed in the present legislative proposal and the Minister's commitments raise many questions, with all the consequences for the legal sustainability of the Minister's decision for the coming gas year. I'd like a response from the Minister. I'll come to a conclusion. My group has serious doubts about the desired legal certainty and feasibility of this legislative proposal. Furthermore, we believe that Parliament as a co-legislator should be more closely involved in the definition of the reduction of gas extraction in the Groningen field. Of course, the extraction quantity has to go down; however, the Minister does not choose in this legislative proposal to provide sufficient legal guidance. This raises the question of why this bill should now be voted on with steam and boiling water, given that important legislative proposals on damage handling and reinforcement have yet to be followed and the draft assent decision is already in procedure. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Verheijen. I call Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. Today, in the Dutch state's case against our children and grandchildren, the appeal court ruled that the State must indeed do much more to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As much effort as the cabinet has put into abolishing the dividend tax in recent years, so little effort has been made to radically reduce CO emissions. My group has been advocating such a radical reduction in this house since 2007, but the cabinet hardly seemed to accept that call. Even today, after the crystal clear judgment of the judge, the State has announced that it will go into cassation against the verdict. An incredibly bad signal to the citizens. With this morning's historic, destructive ruling by the judge, the cabinet has no choice but to take immediate action to radically reduce these emissions. But it is not just this signal, because this week the UN reported in an alarming report: ladies and gentlemen of politics, this is your last chance. The UN calls on governments to take immediate action in all parts of society to prevent a climate catastrophe. Significant of the cabinet's previous reactions to this kind of alarming reports is that today the appeal judge also indicates that those reports can no longer be dismissed as "any opinion." Exactly between the alarming "last chance" report from the UN and the day of sustainability, we are debating literally reducing gas. Is it a historic milestone in line with the ruling in the Urgenda case or an unprecedented blame of shifting the problems to future generations? Mr. Chairman. Groningen's shaking. Not only literally, Groningers feel put in the cold by the cabinet, by the shaky policy towards the foundation of their existence. Shut down the gas tap, that's what it takes. Clarity in the interests of the safety of the Groningen people, that is what is needed. And saving the climate, that's what it takes. And in that context, my group is considering the legislative proposal to minimize gas extraction in Groningen. The bill provides for a new legal procedure to minimise gas extraction from the Groningen field. We have looked at efficiency and my group is not reassured that this procedure actually leads to a rapid reduction in gas extraction. This is mainly due to the opinion of the Council of State on the consideration of the importance of security for residents, the importance of security of supply and the societal importance of security of supply. Many questions have been asked about this consideration, and rightly so, because these are aspects of a very different nature. So that is inevitably difficult. My group also feels that there is insufficient recognition of the unsafe situation that many Groningen people are now in. The damage to houses and other buildings and the unsafe and unsavory situations that result from them cannot be borne by the Groningers. Thousands of houses still do not meet the safety standards that other houses in the Netherlands do meet. This is unacceptable. The Council of State therefore rightly recommended giving priority to security over the social importance of security of supply. Why did the Minister choose this construction? Why does he not seize his authority, which he already has under the current Mining Act, to really put the safety interests of the Groningen people first and work in parallel to alternatives for those end-users? Mr. Chairman. In relation to the dependence on multiple balancing, it remains uncertain what the extraction will look like for several years. It is important that the phasing-out plan be legally anchored, or that Parliament be involved in the phasing-out, because this balancing framework is in principle possible for virtually any decision. If there is no phasing-out scenario submitted to both chambers, the plans can be subordinated to the balance of interests of the minister. Moreover, legal certainty is at stake. Why didn't the Minister choose to anchor the 2022 and 2030 targets in the law? Now the Minister actually wants us to legitimise a proposal in which the NAM is required to extract for an indefinite period. That's causing unnecessary unrest, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister reflect on that? Mr. Chairman. The concept of security in this bill is becoming even more diffuse when you look at the accompanying measures to minimise gas extraction. Climate change is the most urgent threat of our time. And that threatens the safety of all of us. Involvement of insecurity only on earthquake damage is far too narrow. This means that we now have to make fundamentally different choices. The end of the gas extraction from the Groningenveld must be accompanied by the switch to renewable energy. But the Minister simply moves from natural gas to natural gas. The money we put in there is wasted money. Half a billion is allocated to a nitrogen plant, which makes natural gas from abroad suitable for Dutch use. A quarter of a billion is spent on the 53 largest consumers to switch them to foreign natural gas. CO reductions from the ETS system are used to heat households, regional heat grids are connected to oil refineries and contracts are concluded for the next 30 years, while the same companies need to be switched over within 12 years. Does the Minister agree with me that we are knowingly creating our own lock-in and never, ever, reducing gas extraction, because we have put so much money into it? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet leads us from the rain in the drip. Yes, the transition to renewable energy is also costly, but financing intermediate solutions, which we know are already obsolete at the time they are created, is a waste of money and shifting the problem. These are all short-term measures. Mr President, I hear you thinking, but where is the solution? Well, not in a shift, but in a radical system change. At the very least, the cabinet could make the start of the debate, by introducing the de-polluter-pays principle as soon as possible. We don't have time to waste. Making it attractive for large companies to switch to sustainable sources and removing inequalities in tax systems should now take shape. The gas account is now deposited to a disproportionate extent with consumers and small businesses. Large companies spring from the dance and pay up to 27 times less energy tax for their gas consumption. This has recently been investigated and confirmed by Ties Joosten of Follow the Money and also based on the PwC report of the Ministry of EZK itself. Example. Refueling a Fiat Panda costs €40 in excise duty, while refueling a Boeing 747 is completely unloaded. Similarly, it cannot be explained that SMEs pay €0.29 energy tax per cubic metre of gas, while large consumers do not have to pay more than €1.48 per cubic metre of gas. A study commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy itself, I have just mentioned, shows that small Dutch companies pay relatively much for their gas compared to the neighbouring countries, while the largest consumers in the Netherlands pay much less tax. Mr. Chairman. It is not surprising that large companies are not jumping to switch to sustainable sources. Evening taxes and making the big business pay equally for gas would at least be fair, and it would speed up real sustainable investment. This is entirely in line with the advice of the State Monitoring of Mines to speed up the termination of the extraction of the Groningen gas, including by increasing the natural gas tax for large consumers. I would therefore ask the Minister to undertake to examine how the natural gas tax can be used to encourage large consumers to move more quickly towards alternatives to natural gas. I would also like to hear at what time he can carry out this investigation and share it with both Chambers. I'm considering a motion on this point. I'd like a reaction. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. With the proposed legislative changes, there are two losers: the Groningen and the climate. In our view, the Minister is not doing enough justice to the security of the Groningen people for the time being. Large consumers remain the winning party. Their short-term economic interests are secured and their interests are sold as general security. Cheap semantics, like hunters called "fauna managers" nowadays. In addition to this semantics, the cabinet does not focus on the most necessary rapid transition to sustainable sources. Mr. Chairman. If it is up to the Animal Party, this change of law will not take place for the time being, but I am, as always, very curious to hear the Minister's reply. I'd like to be convinced otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u55	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u56	Mr. Chairman. The decision of this minister to reduce gas extraction in Groningen to zero as quickly as possible was a necessary but also a courageous decision. Necessary because the population in Groningen could no longer be kept on a leash with half-hearted measures with too little effect. But also brave, because it has the consequence that Dutch energy consumption has to change a lot in a very short time, also a lot that does not directly contribute to the necessary climate measures and therefore constitutes an additional burden. The latter must be followed. This minister has dared to do so. The choice is wise to end the involvement of the NAM in everything that the Groningen population is confronted with as completely as possible. This is done by placing the handling of the damage and setting up the reinforcement operation entirely under the responsibility of the Empire, but of course leaving the liability for the costs at the NAM. The impression may arise that these choices have been taken more for financial reasons than for humanitarian reasons. Don't stop the gas extraction would be a great reinforcement call. Fast reduction of gas extraction means that the need for reinforcement can be reduced at a rapid pace. Saves a lot of money. It sounds less concerned with the fate of the Groningen, but in fact it underlines the accuracy of the chosen line. The draft law now before us makes a clear change in the relationship between the Empire and NAM, in terms of direction and also in terms of financial relations. But the need for this change in the legal regime is strongly questioned in questions from this Chamber and also by a large number of cooperating organisations in Groningen. Without this new law, and without the main agreement concluded with Shell and ExxonMobil, would not the same material effect have been achieved in terms of the rate of reduction of gas extraction? And without the profit-sharing at the expense of the Empire being adjusted? The question is obvious and there does not seem to be a really clear answer to it in the Minister's last reply paper. Why does the Minister not reduce the amount of gas to be recovered on the basis of existing legislation, according to the possibilities to be determined by GTS? The pressure on companies and households to reduce the use of low-caloric gas must in any case be made effective. I would like to hear a valid statement from the Minister, although a number of elements have been mentioned in the debate so far. Whether the bill is passed or the existing text of the Mining Act has to be worked on: in all cases, the Minister will make the rate of reduction of gas extraction depend on the balance between the safety risk for the Groningen at high extraction, on the one hand, and the safety risk arising from very limited extraction in hospitals, nursing homes, homes and all kinds of other buildings, plus the risk of social disruption. I assume that the security risk for Groningen is really the most concrete and therefore the most serious one for the Minister. But however and for how long this balance will be made, it will depend mainly on the progress of the replacement throughout the Netherlands, and also abroad, of Groninger gas by high-caloric gas or, rather, by renewable energy. At what rate is that going to happen can't be guaranteed in advance. I am at peace with the fact that the Minister does not want to set the rate of reduction in gas extraction in the law, but rather to leave it to the considerations mentioned. However, this means that there is a risk that we will not reach the relatively safe level of 12 billion cubic metres by 2022 and will not be able to stop extraction by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u57	Mr. Reuten, may I ask you to keep speaking in the microphone, or it won't look good in the live stream.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u58	I will. I have a question about the priorities. Mr. Ten Hoeve says: I assume housing security is a priority. The law does not state that this is the most important issue. It doesn't say that. It merely says: a major interest. The other interest can also be significant. It's not there. All it says is that this is heavy. It doesn't say anything of priority and it doesn't say "heavier."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u59	Mr Reuten is right in his own words, but it is true what the Minister says. The fact that he has opted for this rapid phasing-out means in itself giving all the absolute priority to the interests of the Groningen people. I am also absolutely assuming that the Minister can confirm that when calamities occur in the course of this process, physical safety will always be more important than other forms of security. As far as I am concerned, however, the Minister can confirm this very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u60	I read from the report in response to questions from GroenLinks: with a rapid reduction in gas extraction, I have made the importance of safety to the highest possible degree. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u61	Yes, I have to admit that I will also go along with the Minister's reasoning on my own. Reducing gas extraction as quickly as possible means giving priority to the security of the Groningen people in relation to the other interests involved. The effect of this is, therefore, that we need to fill in those others which lie there in a different way from what has been done so far. That is a very difficult task, but with each other we take the Minister explicitly on us. That is: opting for the Groningers, for phasing out. As soon as possible. If we do not reach the relatively safe level of 12 billion cubic metres by 2022 and cannot completely stop extraction by 2030, it would take longer to reach the desired level of risk of 1 in 100,000. Would that mean, I would ask the Minister, that the number of buildings to be reinforced should also exceed the 7,200 buildings now supposed to be, because otherwise these buildings will remain below safety standards even longer than we are already obliged to take for granted? And, moreover, the standard for when reinforcement is necessary includes an uncertainty margin, but the models describing the geological situation and the risks of gas extraction also contain uncertainties, which have not been quantified. So the standards for reinforcement always remain a choice without the guarantee that it's really enough, right? But the first question remains: is there any certainty for the timetable that indicates 12 billion cub for 2022 and zero for 2030, or is it just a paper promise? What concrete steps will be taken in order to make the trade-offs possible in such a way that security for Groningers, security for current gas users and also the prevention of social disruption are guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. It would be good if the Minister could confirm once again that the costs of damage recovery and reinforcement are borne by the NAM and will continue to be borne by NAM, even after the extraction has been stopped. And that there are guarantees from Shell and ExxonMobil behind that, which make it impossible for the possible damage to continue to be covered in the future. Moreover, it must be made clear that, should there be any damage no longer covered by the NAM, the State is liable. The Minister writes that the costs, where I believe the State is liable, must then be covered by the guarantee fund. How sure is it that this guarantee fund always provides adequate cover? In a debate with the previous minister, there has been some doubt about this. Mr. Chairman. In the case of mining, it is obvious that the operator is responsible in principle. It is equally obvious to me that the consequences of mining that are no longer covered by an operator are always borne by the person who issued the licences and therefore accepted the risks. In mining, that's generally the Empire. In my opinion, a similar situation arises in the granting of permits and the realisation of wind farms. It is not impossible that personal damage will eventually occur to residents. Then the operator is liable and behind that the licence holder, often the Empire, sometimes a municipality. Does the Minister agree with this reasoning or does he see that situation differently? Mr. Chairman. Apart from other elements in the legislative proposal before us, I think it is a right approach for the government to decide exactly how to deal with the exploitation of the mineral. I therefore believe it is right that following this legislative proposal there should be legislative proposals which will bring the settlement of damages and the reinforcement operation fully under national responsibility. It has to be done quickly, by passing on the costs to the causer. I would like to agree that the Empire assumes that the depreciation of the property is also included in the recoverable damage, and I would like to assume that this will also apply to the intangible damage. In many cases, it is real enough to commit a sum of money to it. There too, the causer is liable. How all this is going to be arranged, we will be happy to return to that later with the Minister. Finally, Mr President. With the Groningenveld we have a big problem about us. Salt extraction has already caused annoying accidents and the small gas fields can also bring surprises. New permits for the protected Wadden area will no longer be granted, but in fact the rest of our country is too densely populated to be able to carry out dangerous operations with the substrate in a responsible manner. So, as far as I'm concerned, there's no new permits for mineral extraction except in opencasts, gravel or whatever. And for ongoing and past mining, a compensation scheme that is as accessible as is now being set up for Groningen, and also entirely under the responsibility of the Empire. The institutions that are now being set up can be used more widely. Perhaps the Minister would like to think about that further. Mr. Chairman. I'll be happy to hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber is called upon to give a final judgment on the draft law which must capture the poignant past, the unacceptable present and the uncertain future of more than 100,000 Groningen families. And that after a rare messy debate in the House of Representatives, in which the amendments and motions could hardly be followed. It is a miracle that even without gas drilling, the building of the House of Representatives is still standing and has not collapsed. The magic of the minister with all sorts of new letters makes the masterpiece of illusionist Hans Klok forget and makes the minister ripe for a performance in Las Vegas. The last syllable will certainly appeal to the Minister. 50PLUS has given government policy an open opportunity, and in the Lower House even the favor of the doubt. The further discussion and the amended law today determine the final position of the entire party and we will be crystal clear in that. Next year it is 60 years since the natural gas under Groningen was discovered. This discovery in 1959 led to the first concession in 1963, with a price of €0.02 to €0.04 per m. History was characterized by the then PvdA leader and northerner Anne Vondeling as "Nemen, NAM, Genomen." The Netherlands counted themselves literally rich in what was thought to be nitrous gas, but later bitter tear gas turned out to be. A first earthquake occurred in 1976 and the first serious earthquake occurred in 1986. But it was only in 1993 that the link between natural gas extraction and earthquakes was recognized by the government. The violent earthquakes on 16 August 2012 in Loppersum and Huizinga of 3.7 on the Richter scale also finally opened the eyes of the most fervent supporters of the drillings. In 2013 there was already an opinion from the State Monitoring of Mines to bring annual gas production below 12 billion m in order to reduce the risk of earthquakes. It was shown that heavier earthquakes up to 5 on the Richter scale were possible. It is hard to see that the NAM was still increasing gas production at that time. And the question is whether that has not actually been criminal. On this point, I would like the Minister's view and also the question of what the role of the government has been in this regard. D66 senator Pijlman pointed out in the debate a few years ago that certain things could not be done at all, and they are now. He called that "untruth." In both cases, one and the same Prime Minister, Rutte, was responsible and liable. 50PLUS calls for a natural gas tribunal to be set up in which culprits can be charged and prosecuted. It is more than certain that 110,000 people have suffered damage to their homes. In addition, there is great intangible damage for people who, for years, in the past, now and in the future, have psychological problems and fear of what can happen. You're gonna have to live there. We know that even if the gas extractions have stopped in 12 years, hopefully the tremors will still be able to continue. No one can predict when they'll stop. All we know is that if the drilling stops, the guarantee will stop that Shell and Exxon will pay. Everyone has established that the confidence of the Groningen people has completely disappeared. The question is whether the present bill will restore this confidence. The answer to this is clearly no. Deputy States and Provincial States of Groningen have concluded in their view on the draft consent decision of Groningen gasfield 2018-2019 that the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen is not sufficiently guaranteed. Despite their earlier advice, there is insufficient consideration of social insecurity, health, social unrest and disruption. The image is reconfirmed: the more natural gas is extracted, the more the Groningers get in the cold. GS and PS Groningen find that the buildings in their province are still not safe. Citizens have known since 2012 that they are less safe than in the rest of the Netherlands. Timely reinforcements have not been done. Does the Minister agree that in the coming year there will be no substantial reduction in the risk to the safety of those living around? The centre is the confidence of the Groningen people, and that is lost. Their safety is understated. The letter from the Groninger Gasberaad Foundation dated 4 October this year highlights the unacceptable risks to human safety and damage to buildings and infrastructure. The earthquake in Zeerijp on 8 January 2018 of 3.4 on the Richter scale has once again demonstrated that despite the limitations of gas production, the threat of severe earthquakes remains. You're gonna have to live under that threat all the time. We ask the minister right to the man how he would feel as a resident there. I'd like a response. There were over 100,000 claims since 2012, 16,000 a year. There are no close agreements on fortifications of the homes. The security of supply is paramount. As can be seen from Article 2, the NAM recovers the amount of gas necessary for the security of supply from the Groningen field. For the year 2018/12019 there is therefore no clear maximum. That's stretchy. Can the Minister indicate, now that the year 2017/018 has expired, what amount of consumption has been in the past year? Mr. Chairman. As a 50PLUS party, we want to put the significance of children and especially grandchildren at the centre. Last year, the Children's Ombudsman found that 30,000 children live in the earthquake area. In the Groningen perspective report, released in January 2018, it is reported that 10,000 residents have stress complaints. That also has its effect on children. The UN Convention on the Rights of Children states that the best interests of the child should be a first consideration. Article 6 states that children are entitled to an undisturbed development. And Article 12 shows that children from the region should have been involved. That didn't happen. Can the Minister explain that? They have the feeling of insecurity every day. How does the Minister intend to prevent further damage to children's interests? Does this not strengthen the idea that a natural gas tribunal is justified, especially since the Minister writes on page 5 of the reply that he is currently examining the possibility of including intangible damage in public treatment? Mr. Chairman. It has already been established: the government intends to reduce gas production to below 12 billion by 2022 and to zero by 2030. But there's no guarantee. It is not included in the law and a future cabinet is not bound by it. The history of natural gas makes it right that without these guarantees people do not trust the future. This mistrust was further reinforced at 50PLUS when we added the response of 28 September to the note following the final report of 5 October 2018. From the note I quote page 2: "The extraction of gas from the Groningen field will be reduced to zero by 2060." And on page 9 of the same note...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u64	2030, you mean. You said 2060, but I think you mean 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u65	Yes. Did I say 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u66	No, you said 2060.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u67	Oh. My text says 2030. I would ask the stenographer and the Minister to keep my text as I wrote it very wisely. "The extraction of gas from the Groningenfield will be reduced to zero by 2030." And in the same note on page 9, this is repeated even more strongly: "The cabinet has ruled out the continuation of the extraction from the Groningenveld after 2030." But in the reply, the same minister wrote on page 8 a week earlier: "I do not think it is likely that gas will be extracted from the Groningen field after 2030." So one week it's out of the question and the other week it's not likely. Which Minister Wiebes from one week or another can be believed and trusted? The Minister is doing everything in his power to maintain this mistrust as much as possible. I would like a clear, unambiguous answer on which paper we can make and which paper is valid. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This puts the risk of unacceptable consequences on board. Is it not better, as we ask the Minister, to follow the recommendation of the Groninger Gasberaad Foundation to withdraw this proposal? This proposal puts security of supply above the safety of residents and there are no firm guarantees for the reduction sought. The lost confidence of the Groningen people is not restored; the mistrust is strengthened. A choice is needed as to what needs to be stated: the security of supply as has always been the case in the past and present, or the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen. 50PLUS clearly chooses the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u68	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u69	Thank you, Madam President. I have hesitated for a moment about the right choice of words, but I will start my speech with the appeal to the Minister: 'Give it a boost'. I do this mainly because our people in Groningen have been living in uncertainty and fear for so long. You shouldn't think that any second now, a new earthquake could hit your house. For this reason alone, it is very important to act quickly and to give gas when minimising gas extraction in Groningen. To achieve this, the legislative proposal is ahead of us, giving the Minister more powers to give direction. Two important issues are at the heart of this, namely security and the social interest. That makes sense in itself, but in practice they bite each other. After all, once one of the two interests is pushed up, this immediately means that the other interest is put under pressure. It will therefore be the art of balancing both interests. That is a subtle or even a fragile balance, because if the social interest is to outweigh it, then we may be tempted to take a little more risk. However, the Groningers will take this very seriously, and rightly so, because it is about their safety. One question to the Minister is how he weighs these interests in relation to each other. What social interests are so important that security risks can be increased? And what if the risks increase, if the earthquakes worsen, if the dangers increase? Moreover, does the Minister agree with the SGP group that it is not up to the whole of the Netherlands to get rid of the gas, just the issue of Groningen? Even if gas extraction should be stopped immediately, there are alternative sources of gas abroad, which are already being used at the moment? The government has also classified the social interest, at least in part, as a security risk, in particular with regard to security of supply. The Minister states that security will be compromised if parts of society run out of gas. Here, however, the fact that no prioritization has been indicated is avenged. I have already asked for this on behalf of my group in the written round, and the Council of State also indicates that there is a gap here. What is the government's choice? Why not prioritize? Why not put the order in place, namely at all times the importance of the citizens of Groningen first? This question is all the more pressing when we read the letter from the Groninger Gasberaad. In their perception, the security of supply exceeds the safety of Groningen. That's a lot of resistance. Is my group aware that there has been no coordination with the Groninger Gasberaad? I see in the documents that they know they are invited, but have not yet joined. Isn't this a missed opportunity, just in the sensitivity that there is? How does the Minister proceed with this Groninger discussion? Madam President. In the most favourable scenario from the point of view of safety, gas extraction will be rapidly phased out. However, that does not eliminate the problems of earthquakes. During one of the briefings it became clear that if gas is extracted somewhere, it may take years for the pressure to become equal, because the gas has to see through the so-called bulkheads from other fields to return to equilibrium. However, there are no guarantees about the permanence. How does the government intend to obtain this assurance and how does the government communicate on this point towards the Groningers? Madam President. The primary duty of care for taking measures will be with the Minister. The NAM is given a limited duty of care, better described as a delivery obligation for quantities to be determined by the Minister. In itself, the SGP can understand this route, especially given the importance the Minister attaches to speed of action and responsibility. However, there is still a lot of trouble to be expected. How's the old damage coming? Will the NAM still be held liable for this? And how does that work in the future? Is the NAM completely out of the picture if there is any damage to the story? After this change of responsibilities, how is it objectively possible to determine who or what is liable for damage suffered? Madam President. There are still signs that the damage handling is not smooth. Promises are being made, but that seems to be getting stuck in the execution. Can the Minister inform this Chamber about the state of play, the bottlenecks and the interventions he is making to remove the tension between promises and practical implementation? After all, the phasing out of gas extraction is a high priority, but attention to the handling of the damage must not be weakened. One final comment. Last week the Minister presented the National Programme Groningen, with perspective on 2040. There is a lot of ambition and it has been widely carried. It is a starting document drawn up by all the greats, I'll say, from the minister to even the newly elected mayor of Loppersum, but where are the citizens themselves? How does the Minister get them hooked up to this National Programme Groningen? Madam President, I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u70	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u71	Madam President, thank you very much. Today, we are discussing a subject that is of enormous concern to our country and certainly to Groningen, a subject that, among other things, has not gone well in recent years in terms of gas extraction, reinforcement and damage disposal, evokes emotions in many cases. We in the Group of the European People's Party understand very well that the policy of the government and this debate are being looked at in Groningen. There are many good reasons to be very angry about the way things are going in the past. In that respect, we sympathize with the Groningen people. Mr. Chairman. The challenge we are facing now is essentially a three-fold one: you want the security situation to improve quickly, the damage to be dealt with smoothly and correctly, and so Groningers' confidence in the government will increase again. That confidence has been a long way to go lately, and that is, in itself, extremely worrying. On behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to stress first of all that we very much appreciate the fact that this government and this minister have taken clear decisions on the rapid reduction of gas extraction. We hope that the issues of reinforcement and damage settlement in the forthcoming legislation will be dealt with with with the same speed. There is a huge task for us and on the board of the government and this minister, and my group sincerely hopes that the government will succeed quickly in achieving results in the interests of the people of Groningen, their rights and their security. Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for the prompt, careful, precise and comprehensive answer to our written questions. Although, as has been said, we wholeheartedly support the Minister's intention, we still have a number of concerns and questions about the translation of these intentions into the legislative proposal before us. I would like to follow up on a number of questions raised earlier by my fellow Members in the debate. Some repetition may not be ruled out. The dismantling of gas extraction, the damage-handling and the safeguarding of the rights and obligations of all concerned, and the strengthening of housing and other buildings are, in their context, a very complicated operation. In that light, is the present legislative proposal the best way to achieve the minimalisation of gas extraction? I am going through our questions and concerns; in some cases we have said the necessary things in the written preparation, but nevertheless we think it is necessary to consider them in this debate in order to hear a response from the Minister himself to a number of questions and, if necessary, to discuss them further. Mr. Chairman. The policy as advocated by the government should be shaped in three draft laws: the one on the minimalisation of gas extraction, the one on the damage handling, and the one on the strengthening of buildings in Groningen. The next two draft laws are not yet in progress, not with us or in the House of Representatives. It would, of course, be better if we could assess the three proposals in conjunction here, as the Groninger Gasberaad also states. However, we do not. Can the Minister therefore explain again in his own words why the present draft law should be dealt with now? What additional powers does the government have? What other provisions in the draft law are of such importance that they legitimise the current rapid process and anticipate the two other legislative proposals? What would be the consequences if we kept the present bill until the other two were available, as some would ask us? Is the importance of security served by this rapid legislation and, if so, how? Does this draft law actually make it safer? 'Cause that's what we were all about in the end, isn't it? We'd like to hear a response from the Minister. A second point of the CDA Group concerns the position of State supervision of the Mines. The SodM can, if necessary, restrict or shut down activities of the NAM under the current legislation, without the intervention of others. In the future, the minister is in fact the direct client of the NAM. Under the present law, the SodM can no longer give direct instructions to NAM in respect of the quantities to be extracted. However, the inspector-general may ask or advise the minister unsolicited. Those opinions shall be public. This raises the question of how the Minister will deal with such opinions, particularly when security in the area is at stake. How quickly will such advice become public? How heavy does that weigh the Minister? How quickly can an opinion be converted into an instruction to the NAM if necessary? Is there a special procedure for this? Could the SodM temporarily give direct instructions to the NAM if there is a serious, immediate danger? We would like to hear more about this, because this is a crucial point. On this point, the present law appears to be a deterioration in relation to the current situation. Next item, Mr President. We note that the policy on minimalisation takes shape in a complex construction of some of the legal provisions, some of them private contracts or contracts. Colleagues have also mentioned this. For example, the filling of the guarantee fund is based on agreements between the State and Shell and ExxonMobil. This raises the question of whether we can be sure that in the end all the parties, the oil companies mentioned, but also other parties, large consumers or perhaps other countries, are involved in the policies that have been put in place and can be forced to do so if they are unwilling. We'd like to hear a response from the Minister. We have also noticed that the whole debate, including on security measures, and especially those in the event of imminent danger, focuses on the amount of natural gas to be recovered. Isn't there some sort of tunnel vision in which everything revolves around the amount of gas to be extracted? In the written preparation, we asked for alternative measures to ensure safety. Is it also conceivable, for example, that emergency measures should be used to speed up the reinforcement operation and thus ensure accelerated safety? There may be other possible measures. Mr Reuten also took the word 'evacuation' in his mouth. We'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We agree that extraction should be brought below 12 billion m as soon as possible, because this level of extraction, combined with the planned reinforcement, guarantees a sufficient level of safety, the risk of 10 as mentioned above. Based on the model calculations of the SodM, yes. After all, the SodM briefings have also shown how much uncertainty these calculations are surrounded by. But still, that reduction to 12 billion m is step one. Then the level of extraction, between 2022 and 2030, goes back to 4 billion m. And then what? My group is interested to hear what happens next. Mr Nagel mentioned that a moment ago. If I see it correctly - if not, will the Minister correct that later - that a quantity of 4 billion m of gas to be obtained is then considered safe? Whether or not you're gonna win that gas isn't related to the safety issue anymore. That's right, that's what I'm asking the Minister. If that is the case, could such a winable amount possibly still play a role in the debate on the energy transition, for example as a reserve for extreme cold or if the energy transition takes more time? Will the infrastructure to extract gas remain in place even after 2030? We would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on this matter. In addition to the actual discussion of the minimaliser operation, there is, of course, a lot of talk about the progress of the reinforcement operation and the settlement of damages during the discussion of the present legislative proposal, also by colleagues here. Success in both areas is needed to restore confidence in the government in Groningen. It's clear that that's still a huge job, with lots of hooks and eyes. It doesn't all go smoothly. In my group, therefore, there are still considerable concerns about the progress of these processes. Legislation is being prepared for both. I do not want to go into these issues too much today, also for the sake of time, but I would like to make it clear that we, the CDA Group, will be assessing both legislative proposals on their own merits in the near future. For example, the Minister's intention in the future to allow only the administrative route for the settlement of damages cannot, as he has already stated in the explanatory statement, count on our support. In any case, we are very curious to see what the Council of State will say about this later. Finally, Mr President. We also listen carefully to the signals from Groningen. Unfortunately, they are not unambiguous. We hear a number of very involved people and authorities saying that we should finally adopt the law. Reference is also made to the Groningen National Programme, which was established last week and which, of course, is an important incentive to further stimulate developments in Groningen. Other persons and bodies, including the Groningen Gas Council, prefer a coherent treatment of this law and the two yet to come, and at least insist on postponing the vote or perhaps rejecting the law. The argument then is that the current legislation can also achieve the minimalisation of gas extraction. Eventually, our group will have to consider the various signals from Groningen. Of course, this also raises the question of what signal for Groningen is that this law is being enforced or rejected, precisely in the light of the policy that has been launched in relation to Groningen. I hope that the Minister will be able to remove some of our concerns today in order to facilitate consideration. In that light, I await his answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u72	I have listened carefully to Mr Flierman's speech on the uncertainty he has analysed around 2030 and the 4 billion that is necessary or not, and to his plea to speed up the reinforcement operation, but he does not understand it because he has not yet seen the legislative proposal. This raises the question of what guarantees he will derive from the legislative proposal we are discussing today. Isn't that the same vagueness on these issues that concern us all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u73	The question of what is happening after 2030 is, in my view, separate from the concrete legislative proposal that is now before us, because that is, in particular, about reducing gas extraction as quickly as possible to that 4 billion and in the long term to zero, although it is not yet clear when and how precise. It is useful to hear a response from the Minister, but that is not the essence of what we are talking about today. When it comes to the route going from the current level of extraction to the 12 billion and then to the 4 billion, I think that the essence of this bill is in itself my group agrees with this and colleagues also agree that it is stated here that this route is being followed according to the "no more than strictly necessary" principle. That path is clearly set out, and I think it is wise, unlike perhaps some of my fellow Members here, that the Minister should be given the opportunity to steer it very consciously and to achieve that reduction as soon as possible. I can see that that is not in concrete numbers in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u74	But that is contrary to the Government's letter of 29 March that gas extraction would have been phased out by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u75	Now Mr Verheij again asks what will happen in 2030. Of this, the government says that gas extraction must have been phased out. At the same time, in the explanatory memorandum to this law, Mr Nagel also pointed out that there is still some light in the interpretation. So let the Minister reply to that. However, I do not believe that this is a matter of commitment in this law to achieve a very drastic reduction as quickly as possible, according to the "no more than strictly necessary" principle. The fact that this reduction is not set out in numbers in the law, but is a guideline for this minister, we can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u76	Finally, Mr Verheijen, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u77	I hear that the CDA Group can agree to this. I would just like to mention that process approach. But it's really crazy that, where other minerals are involved in the permit for defining and such like, we always set a timetable for phasing out, so that the environment knows when it's sluss, we don't do that in this case, in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u78	Mr Verheijen may find this strange, but in my view that is precisely because there is no more than a strict need to win and therefore the Minister must be able to take account of circumstances which cannot be foreseen at the moment, when the law is being complied with, but which may allow for a faster reduction in gas extraction. And I therefore believe that the Minister should be able to apply that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u79	Mr Verheijen makes a final comment on this point very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u80	My contribution was also aimed at getting clarity about this direction, but it is not included in the legislative proposal either. There are therefore no binding measures and it remains with a nitrogen conversion plant and a process approach to talk. This should ultimately produce the result you hope for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u81	I do not agree with Mr Verheijen on this point, because I believe that this operational strategy does provide a basis for giving very concrete instructions on the amount of gas to be extracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u82	Mr. Reuten wants to interrupt. You need to talk in the microphone, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u83	Yeah, in the mike. Mr. Chairman. I had and have great respect for the written input of the CDA Group in the reports of the First Chamber. What struck me most in that regard is, first of all, the issue of the superfluousness of the current legislative proposal. The CDA Group argues that under the current law everything the minister wants to achieve can be achieved. Secondly, I found the issue of the criminal liability of the NAM, which is restricted by this bill. Now I have heard very well that you are asking the Minister again. But do you still think this, not having heard the Minister and as it is at this point? Do you still think that the current legislative proposal is superfluous and that the liability of the NAM is reduced? In other words, if you look at the bill in relation to the current law, the Groningers are going backwards on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u84	That is Mr Reuten's interpretation of the law, not mine. We asked the Minister in the written preparation why this law would be necessary, given the powers he already has under the current legislation. As far as we are concerned, he has given an adequate response, and I congratulated the Minister for that. That is the point on which my group is off the table. And the criminal liability of the NAM will be adjusted for a certain part in the future. As a result, the NAM will not be immune to criminal liability in the future. But indeed, in so far as it concerns activities carried out by the NAM on behalf of the Minister, it is no longer liable. That may mean a deterioration, but I think that this is in line with what the proposal means. And it is good to stress here again that if the NAM were to act carelessly in the future, ignore safety regulations or do other things that do not fit in with the laws and regulations, it would, of course, remain fully liable for them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u85	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. I'm pressing the bell right now, because we need a maiden speech. I therefore ask Mr Binnema to sit down for a while, because I hope that after the bell has sounded, a large number of Members are coming. I've been pushing the bell for a long time. I give the floor to Mr Binnema. He's making his maiden speech. This means that Mr Binnema cannot be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u86	Thank you, Madam President. It's an honor to have all my maiden speech in this house just a week after I've been sworn in. I thought, if you're already here, you'd better get off to a serious start. And my maiden speech is not about the least of the subjects, namely the gas extraction in Groningen. That is a very loaded subject in which the Dutch government carries along a long, and in many ways I also think a painful history. It is also a history in which the image is tilted only very slowly and the urgency was felt very late. And to this day there is doubt as to whether the seriousness of the situation in the rest of the country is actually sufficiently understood. The naive version of the story about gas extraction I learned at the primary school in Apelscha, namely that years ago a gas bubble had been discovered in Groningen. I heard that including the Polygon footage. It was said that we could go on with that for almost eternity. And in high school, we learned about the budget in social studies, and about how many beautiful things could be done every year for the left or the left with those natural gas benefits. As a lecturer in recent years, I have used the "casus gas extraction Groningen" so you call it in a sense neutral terms "to explain to my students how so many different actors and so many different interests come together in such a policy subject, and how you can explain this not only with administrative theories, but also with principles such as "integer" and "democratic governance." And I'm not going to tell you anything new when I say that this gas extraction every time offers a lot of ground for discussion. Above all, there is something that lies between surprise and indignation. How could it be that all this time the balance between the burdens and the safety for the Groningers on the one hand, and the revenues for the Dutch State, and the security for the gas customers on the other, have been so distorted? GroenLinks is therefore pleased that the government has made the choice to reduce gas extraction to what is considered acceptable in the near future and to reduce it to zero in the long term. But it is precisely in this somewhat cumbersome wording that we have great doubts and concerns about the approach that has been taken here, which is now reflected in the present proposal for amending the Gas Act and the Mining Act. I would like to explain this in five points. Many of the speakers before me have said that they are aware that they are repeating themselves. I also realise that I will repeat myself, certainly as a twelfth speaker, but I take this opportunity. The first concerns the timing and coherence of the various legislative pathways. In addition to the current proposal, the assent decision, which is both framework conditions and consequences, the operational strategy, the settlement of the damage, the reinforcement operation and, of course, the main agreement with Shell and Exxon, play a part. And the uncomfortable pressure on today's debate is the need to adopt these amended laws as the basis for the assent decision, which in turn seems to be necessary to legitimize the new way of working with Shell and Exxon. Moreover, this inconvenience is being fed again and again, because of the continuing uncertainty about the handling of damage, the extent and pace of the reinforcement, and the mistrust that has arisen from it. And it is fed by the very understandable feeling in Groningen that the situation seems to change from week to week. Forgive me for a brief comparison that will undoubtedly go some way. With our oldest son, he is now 3, I lay puzzles almost daily. Preferably he puts the same puzzle every day. I advise him every time, starting with the edge of the puzzle. Because those pieces are recognizable and once you have the edge, it's easier to lay the rest of the puzzle. If I understand the Minister's ownership correctly, what we are discussing today is actually the proposal that he offers edges. Because we're not doing more than we have to, we're not going outside. The other pieces of that puzzle will actually come within those edges in the next few months. We now take a number of pieces from the puzzle, but precisely because so many other pieces still have to be laid and we don't know for sure if they belong within those edges, we don't know for sure what that puzzle will look like in the end, we don't know for sure whether based on what we're talking about today, we're going to like that puzzle and what that puzzle will look like in the end. And however much the Minister's answer to both the questions that were asked in this house and the questions that were asked earlier in the House of Representatives has tried to explain this logic, and despite the importance of speaking here today about this part of the puzzle, that uncomfortable feeling is not gone. The second point is that, as far as we are concerned, it must be made much more emphatically that the safety of the Groningen people is paramount. That too has been appointed for me by many speakers. The safety aspect should therefore be more explicitly mentioned, identified and weighed in the assessment. Because in our opinion, the following is certainly happening. The safety aspect is divided into two parts, namely, on the one hand, the safety of the Groningers, which may be affected, and, on the other hand, that of gas customers, which may not be supplied, or are not supplied enough. This security is linked on the one hand to a social interest, namely the consequences of insufficient security of supply. On the other hand, however, the social importance of the insecurity of the Groningen people is not really taken into account in that sense. So what kind of social interest do others call that social disruption is also linked to that safety and insecurity of the Groningers as a result of soil movement? Secondly, if it is indeed stated that no more, but no less, is won than necessary, this actually means, in our view, that security of supply is paramount, which is given an extra emphasis by the social importance attached to that security of supply. And although the Minister also points out in the answer to the questions that there are some possibilities of reducing extraction in the event of insecurity for the Groningen people, that first aspect, the legal basis is, in particular, to set a ceiling. In other words, that won't be more than deemed necessary. And that is at odds with the serious importance previously mentioned of the safety of the Groningen people. Here again, I repeat what Mr Reuten said, among other things, that the consideration is ultimately up to the Minister. He needs to motivate them afterwards. We also think it would be very desirable to have a better understanding of how this consideration is to take place. Precisely because this operational strategy plays such a crucial role, complementary/replacement to the assent decision, we think that where advice is sought from local authorities and from NAM, it is only natural that the two Chambers play a role in that operational strategy. We are therefore asking for a commitment from the Minister to be involved in drawing up that strategy. Thirdly, what GroenLinks lacks is a view of how this reduction in gas extraction is going to take place and how it is going to implement the planned, but undefined, effort to move quickly to 12 billion cubic metres, hopefully within four years, and to zero in 2030. First of all, this means a more concrete picture of the timetable, priorities and whether or not binding instruments to substantially reduce this demand for low-caloric gas. This concerns technical means of high-caloric gas and nitrogen with the justified comments made by the Party for Animals, and also agreements made with foreign customers, Belgium, France and Germany, and in particular those 170 large companies in the Netherlands. Secondly, we also raised this issue in the House of Representatives, namely the specific demand for a cut-off plan. In what order, in what priority does which of the gas go off in the coming years? What choices are made here, partly in view of the social importance and when can the Minister clarify this? For as far as we are concerned, the order is safety first, and what is needed for it, and then translated into reducing the demand for gas. This raises the question of how forward-looking this ambition is now, knowing that we are trying to define things for a somewhat longer period, but not for eternity. How difficult or how easy do you make it for future governments/Parliaments to turn that course back to zero, slow down or otherwise put spokes in the wheel? It is precisely because of the enormous social debate and the impact it has on getting rid of gas, as many people feel, and at the same time the urgency of it, that it seems to us that it is time to move forward, not only in terms of the more intensive and more active involvement of citizens, which we will be discussing on another occasion, but in particular in order to consolidate that ambition to go to zero and thus to bind future governments and future chambers as much as possible. As far as we are concerned, it can of course be done faster than in 2030. Fourthly, what GroenLinks lacks is a view of the progress of damage handling and the strengthening of more than 1,500 large-risk homes in particular. What exactly happened? We're getting unpleasant signals about that. What is going to happen and at what rate? We are concerned about the difficult handling of complaints and claims and, in particular, the continuing uncertainty for many inhabitants. How does the Minister view the old and new roles of the NAM and the old and new roles of the government? In particular, we stress the importance of legal certainty for citizens and the need for transparency and independence. And as far as the strengthening is concerned, we see that the approach has so far taken all the necessary efforts in terms of research, preparation and so on, but more pace can be made with the actual strengthening. And are there also opportunities to deal with this slightly less individual and more group-by-group in groups of homes, also in the light of the stricter requirements in the Building Decision? Then there is the fifth point, which I believe Mrs Klip also raised: how well do we actually have in mind what is happening underground, also in the light of the discussion we are having about the Structural Vision Underground? As I said, even during the technical briefing: winning the gas is going well, but what actually happens underground once the gas is out? You could simply say that winning less means less risk, but certainly not that there can be no more tremors, even when winning gas is over. We also ask this question in the light of, for example, salt extraction, geothermal plans, which have been critical of State surveillance, all taking place in a relatively small area, at different depths, with different techniques and with some unknown effects. In any case, it seems sensible to us to exercise some restraint and not to do everything that is technically possible immediately. GroenLinks therefore asks the Minister to map out, for example in the form of a safety impact assessment, what are the effects in terms of safety for residents of all these different ways in which the extraction of raw materials takes place and to inform the Chamber about this. As far as we are concerned, more research is extremely welcome here. We think it is right to link this with the aforementioned Structural Vision Underground. Madam President. I'm rounding up. I started with the optimistic and fairly carefree story that I learned in my primary school about gas extraction and how it would continue to go well forever. Applescha is, as some of you may know, on the outskirts of Friesland, in Ooststellingwerf, more Drents, more imports, little Frisian. Many of my teachers weren't Fries, my classmates weren't, and I was import despite my last name. But at that time I got an expression: Fryslân boppe, Grinslân yn'e groppe. And, unfortunately, how much truth has been in that second part over the last few years. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is our expensive duty to prevent this from happening in the future, that this situation improves substantially and that Groningers can safely know. In this contribution, I wanted to point out that GroenLinks can broadly endorse the Minister's change of direction and the prospect of gas extraction to zero, but we have doubts and concerns about the extent to which the security of the Groningers is at the forefront, have doubts about the certainty and the pace of phasing out, have doubts about the resolution of the damage and the progress of the reinforcement. They have not yet been removed with the present bill. We are therefore looking forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u87	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. Please stand down, if you don't mind me asking. Congratulations on your maiden speech. It was not the first time you spoke from this place in this Chamber, but I will come back to that. What I do find special is that you were sworn in last week and made your maiden speech a week later. I can honestly say that I do not remember that in the seventeen years I have been a member of this Chamber that has ever happened so quickly. One week, the next week, the maiden speech. Congratulations on that. But allow me to outline some of your background. You studied political science at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Next, you were promoted in 2009, also at the VU in Amsterdam. Since that year you have been working as a lecturer and researcher at Utrecht University in Administrative and Organisational Science. An important theme in your research is local government, especially residents' participation, local democracy and the role of political parties. At the moment you are a university lecturer and coordinator of the Master's programme Management and Policy. At the beginning of this century, your political career began. From 2003 to 2011 you were a member of GroenLinks Provinciale Staten in Noord-Holland. You were spokesperson for Spatial Planning, Transport, Finance and Public Administration. After the elections for Provincial States in 2007, you were party chairman of GroenLinks in North Holland. In that capacity, I referred to it a moment ago in this room in June 2010 during the provincial visit to the First Chamber, you spoke about "Voetbalmetaforen and the central government." You called the provinces the centers of the House of Thorbecke. I wonder how you look at the First Chamber: are we the peaks or the goalie? Last week, October 2, 2018, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber and, as I said, today you are making all your maiden speech, and there is quite a lot of interest on the part of the Chamber. In addition to your work and politics, you are also socially active. For example, you are a member of two local accounting rooms and trainer I thought you were a soccer coach, but that is not true at the GroenLinks Academy. You have been particularly active online for years. In 2011 you were even named the best webpolitician. According to the jury, your digital communication is "personal and interactive." You yourself said at the time that you would continue to do so, even if you did not enter the Upper House. Well, you're here now. So I expect you to continue with that. Before I welcome you again, I would like to say that you had registered for fifteen minutes and that there were more than three and a half minutes left. My advice to you is: Slowing down is fine. I wish you a warm welcome once again and we look forward to your further entry into the Upper House. I'm going to congratulate you. For that, you must stand in front of the rostrum. Before congratulating you, I would first like to ask if one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting. I should now like to congratulate Mr Binnema. The other Members can also congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u88	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of legislative proposal 34957, Amendment of the Gas Act and of the Mining Act on Minimising Gas Extraction from the Groningen Field. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u89	Mr President, thank you. First of all, thank you for the fact that it was possible to deal with it at this time. I will explain later why I feel some pressure on time, but I am grateful that I have already been given this explanation. I must also, of course, congratulate Mr Binnema on his maiden speech. It wasn't just a quick story that the chairman has already emphasized, but above all a very personal story. I always like that. So thank you for that, too. At the beginning, I think I should perhaps try to save the various senators an all too frequent scoop to the microphone by explaining how I think I can structure the answers. I think it would be useful to say a few words about the positioning of this bill in relation to other legislative proposals; several questions have been asked. Secondly, I am accountable to you for the haste that I have caused you; that is my second block. Thirdly, many questions have been asked about the need: why do we need this bill anyway? That would be my third block. We have been asked very extensively about the balance between security of supply and security of supply, the nature of the trade-off, the way in which the trade-off takes place and why it could not be done in another way; I want to make that a separate block. I have several questions about liability, duty of care and the role of the NAM, possibly even in relation to criminal law. A lot of questions have been asked about the phasing out of the gas. All kinds of questions have been asked regarding the SodM. Questions have been asked about reinforcements, which I'm getting together. Questions have been asked about damage that I'm getting together. And there's the deal on the main lines. Then I have a few questions that really don't fit into anything, but I congratulate the authors of those questions, because they have been the most original ones. That's how I'm trying to do it. If I forget something, then the end also gives me my verbatim record in my own notes of what you have asked me to do. I'm gonna walk through that. First of all, I think I should stress that I am concerned not only with the issue of gas extraction, but also with this phasing-out process in particular. Right after this cabinet started, I launched this. I got all the members of the cabinet behind this. That's been quite a trip. We have disregarded the financial considerations, but then there is, of course, the need to cover them financially. I've done a lot of work on that. The impact of this gas extraction on these inhabitants has been increasingly significant over the last ten to twenty years. I have already said, even at the beginning of this period of government, that I believe that this has been denied for too long from The Hague and that the response has been too late. We can now establish that; we simply need to establish that. In fact, I dare say that for too long we have relied not on ten years, but on three or four years, on a massive reinforcement operation, which, moreover, seemed to be 95% behind schedule in my performance, with which we have not fulfilled our promise of safety. I realize that trust doesn't come back with three legislative proposals. We are not going to change this confidence with each other tonight; let us be realistic about that. I myself am convinced that we will only regain confidence by delivering and the first moments of measurement are not all this year. So that's gonna be a while. We have to prove we're doing what we say. A lot of questions have been asked about this from a concern I believe to be justified, for which I would like to thank you. To put this bill in some perspective, it is wise to outline the movement as a whole. A lot has happened since January. It began with the fact that with the Empire, but above all with the leaders of the region and with civil society organisations, we have come up with a damages protocol. That was to have the damage assessed independently. We know by now that the creation of a separate organisation, with its own ICT, is still quite a job. We also know that independence means that you cannot interfere with it all the time, because independence is a great asset here. I'll come back to it in a separate block. I know it hasn't been settled as we all want, but that damage protocol was the first step. The second step was the letter of 29 March: the extraction of gas to zero. The expectation of society before the SodM opinion was that we would do the 21.6 out of the coalition agreement. After SodM's advice, I think the expectation was that we would go to 12. I'll come back to it in a separate block. I am convinced that the inevitable conclusion was, but also had to be, that it had to go to zero. I will say a few words about this later, but that is the path we used, with all the consequences of that. A draft assent decision was tabled on 24 August, also to replace something that had never happened before: an assent decision annulled by the Council of State. That hadn't happened before. We have asked for a Mining Council opinion. There too, the consequences were at least as firm as we could have expected. It actually showed that the old reinforcement operation was totally inadequate, that it really had to be in a completely different way. Please don't underestimate that cover. That is also for the organisation of the NCG that has to carry out a huge change. Yeah, it's gonna be a lot safer, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't be strengthening anymore. In fact, we need to speed up the reinforcement rate. An agreement has been reached with Shell and Exxon; it is also necessary. A few questions have also been asked about this. Finally, on 5 October, I was able to share a shared vision with the region, with an underlying joint national programme. A national programme is something special, but in this case it is definitely appropriate. It wasn't a party, because that doesn't fit yet, but we decided that you should do this, in the form of a national programme, because it concerns employment and social consequences, but also urban and village renewal, which we found useful to start. This bill is about a lot of these things not. The legislative proposal is not about dealing with damage, it is not about the agreement in general, it is not about the strengthening operation or safety standards, but it has all been questioned. I understand that coherence, so I will try to answer it as well as possible, without creating the illusion that this is what the legislative proposal is about. Unfortunately, further legislative proposals are needed to deal with this as we all want. First of all, the rush. I don't have an interesting prose with that, but I have a schedule here that forces me to stand here right now. On that schedule, I'll start at the bottom, because that's what you do with schematics that you're in a hurry. At the bottom is the date that the Council of State reported to me; that is 15 November. The Council of State stated at the time of the destruction that I should have a new mining decision on 15 November. What happens if I don't? Then I am obliged to turn off the gas tap immediately. Then there is no legal basis for gas extraction and that is serious. So no later than November 14th, with a day's play, I need that done. If I want to do this in order, including towards the stakeholders and the region, then on 5 November I have to start with the announcement of everything that has come out there. This means that the last agreement in the Council of Ministers should take place on 2 November. And then you can see: then there are a few dates in which we could have a vote in the First Chamber. One of them is October 30th. You won't be able to do that anymore, because you won't have a single maneuver. If it doesn't work out and have to do it in a different way, you'll have about a day to fix it. That means that the last vote of the First Chamber is on October 16th and the week before that, so October 9th, that's today. That's how I got back here. I realize that's not very sympathetic. The reflection that should take place here has been crammed in a very short period of time, and then we have complicated written rounds. I'm grateful for that, but I didn't see any other way to do this. That also indicates that there's a lot of pressure on this. One of the most important questions that has been asked, as always with a legislative proposal, is: why? Why do we have to change the law? Why? Look, the decision to end gas extraction as soon as possible doesn't really fit into this legal framework. Firstly, the extraction plan is now at NAM and not at the Empire. The NAM suggests what the extraction is. As long as there are no major reasons for safety, objectively established, the Empire is purely reactive. We have 12 in our hands now, but not zero. That is a wish of the cabinet, but it is in no way that an external party would force me to go to zero. With a SodM recommendation of 12, I can't force that zero. Furthermore, a mining decision at this time is always a maximum. That maximum takes into account bandwidths, of a cold winter, of a disappointing nitrogen utilisation, and the NAM can always win that maximum, even in a warm year. I will go into more detail later on about the differences, but that bill does not really do more than it says. We are only winning the volume that is the result of a public consideration, so always the minimum of what we think we can achieve from that political consideration. This is less in a warm year and with maximum nitrogen utilisation, that volume will be reduced. NAM becomes a pure performer, without affecting the volume. That is what we have always said to each other: the NAM must get away, and by "there" we meant both the damage and the reinforcement as well as the extraction, and that is what is happening here. This makes the Groningenveld the closing piece, following other sources. You first try as many other sources as possible, such as depleted high-caloric gas, and only finally the Groningen gas. Whatever has changed with it, and sounds through it, is that the paradigm of the past is no longer there, in which the question was considered a given. I don't blame my predecessor, but that was the paradigm we lived in back then. In time and in the legal frameworks that existed then, the question was considered more as a given than we have done now. I shall come back to that later on to the block on reducing gas extraction. You can't do that without pain. It is not that we have easily found a button to lower the gas extraction, but considering the demand no longer as a given hurts. We have that to do, there is no choice, but that has really changed and that is why I am now engaged in negotiations with large consumers and colleagues abroad. I am engaged in negotiations with my German colleague on large consumers and large consumption in our neighbouring country. Doing nothing is not an option as far as I'm concerned, because without this bill, you won't get three things. The first thing you don't get is a legal task of GTS to make a long-term planning every year, to calculate annually what that minimum should be and to provide us with annual information to adjust to that minimum, with maximum nitrogen deployment, as a basis for that operational strategy. We can say that in some sense it is a semi-public organisation that may do so on its own, but perhaps not. On average, organisations do not do something that is not their legal task. So to get this, you're gonna need all this bill in itself. The second thing we won't get if we don't have this bill is the ability to push the NAM down in the daily operations, but also below 12. We don't have that legal option right now, so if you want to go to zero, you're gonna have to take a measure. The opposite story is also: if the NAM is no longer keen to continue to win below a level where it is no longer attractive, and to have to compensate for the damage, then we must be able to force them to do so, as far as we still think necessary. So those are things you won't get without this bill. Now, of course, there are people who have studied this and wonder if there are any other possibilities. Then much is called Article 50. That article offers the possibility to adjust the gas extraction downwards. The Minister has that authority. Taking into account the legal history, it is also obvious that there are cases, dangers or risks that you did not see coming at the time of the consent decision. It is therefore a matter of new cases, which may also involve powerful tremors and risks of major explosions. So we're talking about cases that aren't meant here. Even without explosions and without dangers that we cannot estimate in advance, we want to reduce gas extraction on the basis of what we know now and what we think is serious enough. And Article 50 doesn't really offer a handle for that. In order to be able to minimize the extraction in a legitimate way, so to bring it to 12, we keep adjusting within the year to keep it as low as possible, given the temperatures, grade days and so on, we need this bill. Mr Pijlman and Mr Flierman have asked how we can ensure that they do so. The question that was asked most questioning was perhaps already answered indirectly by Mr Pijlman himself. NAM is under the supervision of the SodM. GTS is supervised by the ACM. We are laying down a legal basis, a binding decision that is also a legal instrument. This means that parties must abide by it. In this context, Mrs Klip asks whether the NAM is completely out. In the case of the payment, nor in the case of the extraction, but in the case of other items, the NAM is out. Mr Ester asks if I see the importance of evaluating this bill. In fact, I think that would be very useful to do. That's not in the law. So here we will have to make a commitment on my part, but I am happy to do so. An obvious deadline is three years. By the way, only one operational strategy has been fully adopted and lived through and a second one is in preparation, but perhaps we should use that moment to launch an initial evaluation. This seems to me to be an obvious and appropriate commitment in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u90	The minister quickly went over that bridge that the SodM has a statutory supervisory function vis-à-vis the NAM and could therefore require that the NAM achieve a lower level of extraction at the direction of the minister. But I'm missing the legal relationship between the law and what the minister says about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u91	A new mining decision prescribes an operational strategy and a level. The combination of these two forces a lower level of extraction than that to which the NAM itself could at present decide. So that extraction decision with that operational strategy that is needed if it is a hot year, you can do this and this and if there is so much nitrogen available you can do that and do that................................................................................................................................................................................................... The NAM is an operator and is not the one who determines the level of gas extraction, especially in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u92	The case is that we would not move this bill forward, but we would discuss it at a time of six months if those other legislative proposals were known and can be dealt with. Then you will also have the opportunity to set a binding ceiling in accordance with old legislation as soon as possible, where, I say what, 3 billion less than 19 billion is dedicated to the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u93	But then you can't make an operational plan. Then you run the risk of finding too high a level of extraction that means too much extraction, which we don't want because we want to get rid of. Or you run the risk of setting too low a level of extraction. If it gets colder or the nitrogen is somehow disappointing, then you have a situation you didn't expect, but you didn't wish for at all. It is precisely for this flexibility that you bring in and the adoption of NAM's mining decisions that this bill is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u94	But you don't deny that it would also be an opportunity to do it along that road? You say that it could be set too high. Then my plea would be: then you have to set the net a little too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u95	Too low is too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u96	Right, and then you come to the question of what's too low a level. What degree of social disruption or employment interests will then become apparent because gas demand cannot be met? My point is that you haven't actually figured that out and that you also don't take the rationing tool that is something else than that you don't get gas anymore, but it's more that you get a limited amount of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u97	At the point where this trade-off occurs, I will come to another block later. So I'll answer that in more detail. But let's make this clear. Should the speaker already think that I am not doing this well, he will agree with me that the NAM is not doing better at the moment under the current conditions? So we need to keep that in public hands. That's my point. The extraction levels should be in public hands with the ability to adapt to hot years. Then we can talk afterwards about whether the balance has been sufficiently well-balanced. That is what I come up with, and I expect a good discussion on it, but in order to leave it to the NAM under the current guise, it does not seem to me to be the solution to the problem outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u98	Mr Verheijen, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u99	I didn't argue that I want to leave it to the NAM. I argued that, for example, for the next year's edition, I would dedicate 3 billion less and then look at whether that is critical enough to put real pressure on the various conversion strategies and so on, to ensure that you also go in terms of rationing or saving up to the limit of what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u100	But that is a dangerous one, because then you do not leave it to the NAM but to chance. Then you need the Enkhuizer Almanak to see if it's going to be a warm year and then you have to base it on that. And if it doesn't work out, we either won too much or we're in the cold. That's not what you're supposed to do, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u101	Finally, Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u102	The Minister suggests that it creates chaos and I simply ask for a normal disaster strategy, where you know on the basis of information what the consequences are of a certain saving and rationing within the range of what is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u103	A certain rationing within the range of what is justified sounds like music to me. The proposal in this legislative proposal is to link an administrative balance to that and not to leave it to the NAM or a bit of coincidence in the sense of: we sit down low and see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u104	I shall continue with Mr Verheijen's question. A extraction plan is established annually, as it is now. An operational strategy shall also be adopted annually. In both cases it is a matter of too high or too low. That makes absolutely no difference. An operational strategy can also be too high or too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u105	But an operational strategy is not a number but is a way to achieve the minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u106	But that's a number, isn't it? The estimation of GTS sets a margin, depending on winter or summer temperatures. That is exactly the same in both cases, i.e. the extraction plan and the operational strategy. So I do not understand your answer to Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u107	In the current law we issue a number. For this cabinet period, the figure was 21.6. Period. That's not a range. That doesn't depend on the temperature, not the weather, not the nitrogen capacity, but that's a number. If we don't need that number, the NAM's gonna win, and I don't want that. Mr. Chairman. Well, then I'll come to the trade-off. The Council of State and many people present here in the Chamber, I shall be supporting myself there in a moment, and I agree that security for those living around must in one way or another take precedence over security of supply. We need to operationalize that concept. Furthermore, the Council of State says that the balancing should be more tied. That is what Mr Reuten thinks at the moment. The balance of interests must be more limited. The proposal was to amend Article 52d. I do, but the discussion is about how. There are two interpretations of the concept of 'priority'... Mr President, as you can hear, I am a bit capricious. That's what happens when the files pile up. Two interpretations of the concept of "priority of security for residents" are therefore conceivable. The first is in a weighting with other social interests. In doing so, for example, the balancing could focus heavily on this safety. I'll get to those words later. So one of them is in a weighting with other things. I will come to the question of how hard that can be, how modelly, how quantified. I'll get to that. The other way would be: just binary, where one interest goes above the other in absolute terms. There is no question of quantification at all. Anything that's good for safety, you have to do. If I go through the documents of the Council of State, it is clear to me that the Council of State is steering on the first, i.e. on a weighting with a strong emphasis on the safety of the residents. But it is framed, so it is less broad than originally put. Firstly, the Council of State also explicitly states that the Minister should weigh the facts and the circumstances. That's what the advice says. Secondly, the Council of State also admits that this dilemma between security of supply and security of supply is never completely soluble. This is also in line with the advice of the SodM which also says: as soon as possible to 12 billion cubic metres (bcm) per year. That also indicates a trade-off. This priority has been operationalised by including criteria. The Jetten amendment added that it should also be justified. In addition, we have, of course, taken the gas decision to bring the gas down to zero, even though we have said that safety is a major issue. We will come to the question of how many social conditions we need to achieve if we really want to get gas production to zero. But there is therefore a major importance of safety in a weighting. The other interpretation is unlikely, but also not attractive. The scholars disagree or if you introduce an absolute priority, you now have to go to 12 or to zero. There are those who say it should go to 12. That's pretty far-reaching. We have to deal directly with circumstances that can easily be described as socially disruptive. There are also empty shelves. I think, when I read it literally, it should just go to zero. And then it just gets worse. So I follow the Council of State in this way, but of course you can still ask questions here and that is also done here why this weighting no longer quantifys. In my words: why not a more protocoled trade-off? There are now qualitative concepts. Who can see in advance where these qualitative concepts lead, who can control them other than afterwards? The second concern you can still have is Mr Reuten's concern. He says: it's nice to use heavily, but maybe all other things are also heavy; so why not the most heavy? I hope I rebut his words correctly. Unfortunately, I do not think that a quantified weighting is possible here. I think there are two people in this room who would still be the most ported of a more or less quantified decision-making model. That's Mr. Reuten and me. I dare say so. But in all honesty, those concepts that we are dealing with here, cannot be brought under the same heading. I can give you an example. Why don't you make a difference between temperature and weight? Then you're powerless. You can't weigh that. Those aren't similar quantities. Mr Reuten and I have had a lot of debates in the past where there were similar figures. We had two, and we were both ported from those concepts. One was euros and the other was purchasing power numbers. We found each other quantified in that. This does not mean that quantification would automatically be a recipe for agreement, because we did not succeed in all cases, but that was a clear framework. And it's not here. We must, I think, note that there are a lot of areas where social life cannot be put into a spreadsheet and where perhaps, unfortunately or fortunately, you may have to choose between a political or administrative weighting and in which we must appeal to the driver afterwards on what he has done. And "we" is you in this case. And that is the case here. This means that we can only do that you each make your own weighing and appeal to the board. And that means that we have to talk about this in that debate, which is socially important; you as a representative of the people and I as a director. At the same time, that is the answer to the question where 'the most important' cannot be used. Also there is temperature versus weight. So I simply cannot do that, no matter how attractive it would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u108	I understand from the European scheme that there are indeed categories to be protected, for example households, and that you could actually speak of a kind of displacement series. That's a term from water management, which I'm most familiar with. In doing so, you set certain priorities for certain values to be protected, such as households or citizens vis-à-vis companies, for example. That indicates a ranking. I assumed that when you took that into account, when determining the importance of the matter, you would actually apply that order of precedence. I assumed that you would agree that when it comes to the question of distribution, where will the gas still be delivered, and where will it not be? But from the debate we had earlier, I understand that you do not even have that question of distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u109	It is, because the whole weighting is that question. If I say that I attach great importance to the safety of residents, then so be it. It is only very difficult for us to have a quantified debate on this because it cannot be expressed in figures. Some houses are unsafe for another two years, but very unsafe. There are houses that are still six insecure, but less unsafe. We have P90 and P50 groups there. We also have all kinds of disruption and we have differences in anxiety. This Chamber rightly calls for attention to be paid to subgroups such as children. How do you weigh those versus adults? That is something that is ultimately an administrative consideration. In doing so, I can only radiate and emphasise that for me the safety importance of the people living around is very important, without being able to give them a value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u110	I did not mean the different categories of security risks within the Groningen field and what there is to people and stash; I meant precisely the distribution of the social disruption that you think would arise if the gas tap was adjusted more sharply than the potential gas demand would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u111	Sure. We can easily imagine that it will be more difficult for the government to put homes with older people in the cold than to stop supplying gas to some types of business activity. That is absolutely true. But that weighting also plays a role in that, because depending on what you should switch off, you can try to estimate and weigh what that would mean in society. And at some point it also means something to those people in a house with elderly people, who may not be in the cold but are confronted with empty shelves. And that's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u112	Mr Verheijen, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u113	My question is whether you can make that clear when you consider it. If you simply say that you have to weigh the potential job losses against the security interests of Groningers, that is a very qualitative motivation that we do not get anywhere with in political accountability. You have to back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u114	I do agree that I have to support it, at least motivate it, but I will not be able to provide a justification in terms of a quantitative balance between two unequal sizes. If standards are given to me, I will use them gratefully. But we didn't find them. I also understand why that is. That's why politics is politics and governance is the government, because there are things you can't weigh up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u115	What I would like to emphasise once again is that I assume that you place the security interests of the residents above what is on the other hand, the social interest. Why do I do that? Because your goal is to set that gas extraction to zero. In doing so, you accept that you will have to make that weighting temporarily, because no one here wants social disruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u117	Is that a good interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u118	Yes, and that is also in the House of Representatives in the history of law, precisely in these words. In this respect, perhaps, we should also derive certainty from the fact that, in a way, I have already contributed to the speech. Very unfriendly letters have been sent to Dutch large consumers. They are no longer offered that choice. We will come up with what perhaps seductive, but perhaps also mandatory, measures are all part of it. That's not a pleasant story. That is what we are doing because safety is very important at the moment. With that meaning, in that weighting, it takes precedence. That's the reason and no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u119	I would like to distinguish between the normal situation, the normal expectations, and a catastrophic situation where there is yet another very severe earthquake. Those are two different points. So far, there have been no deaths or serious injuries. The Minister, if I read the note correctly, is already ready on this important issue. The Minister writes: "With a rapid phasing-out of gas extraction, I have made the importance of safety a matter of maximum importance." I've quoted it before. So the minister's basically done his motivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u120	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u121	Correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u122	I have just said in the direction of Mr Pijlman that this was one illustration of the action to be taken. On the contrary, I say that every year, in the context of each mining decision, we must make this assessment, with the priority that Mr Arrowman has just taken with his words. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u123	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u124	If I were done, it would be very pleasing, but we all know that it is not. Some more detailed questions have been asked. Mr Reuten says: wait a minute, that security of supply actually comes back in different ways. That is true, because security of supply affects part of the security concept, it also affects part of the social interests. It can even lead to social disruption, but it can be framed in that way. Things are not considered twice, but the different aspects of something related to gas extraction and the height of the extraction are reflected in that consideration. That's not a wrong definition. It's a reality that these are the things you'd like to weigh socially. Mr Ester actually speaks of a kind of duplication. He says, "Am I the only one on earth now?" He says something else that might in itself find a lack of security potentially socially disruptive? It happens twice, but that's not how it's made. I also think that we really should not have the intention of including the concept of security, which is at the heart of this issue, under the term'social disruption' or'social interests'. On the one hand, the security interests of the neighbors are paramount. There is no duplication with anything else in the definition and its implementation. I do agree with him that, in general terms, in speech use, safety is of course a very important social interest, but in the definition here it has an independent place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u125	There are books and even bookcases full of them. It's not just about semantics. It is also a question of the signal effect that it assumes. Social disruption in Groningen is a collective problem. The solution to this collective problem is also a social issue, for that region alone. That's not semantics. That's how it's being polite over there. I would like to return to the discussion we have just had. It is not an innocent discussion when it comes to assessing risks. That's a very quantitative science. I understand that in this case it may be a little too much to ask to simulate that completely, but the Minister will be behind his beautiful desk on the Bezuidenhoutseweg. There he has piles of paper with all risk assessments and effects. Then he'll have to do something. He'll have to make a decision. He's got to give weight to those different stacks he's got on his desk. So he's got to do something. The question is, how is he gonna do that? Then there is the second question, linked to it, also in relation to what Mr Verheij said. It is very important, if only afterwards, to give Parliament an insight into how that decision has been taken, on the basis of which objective indicators, so that it is not a chunk of: it happened to fall that way. The Minister really has to make a statement as to why his decision has failed as it has failed. I think this will help a lot. If that could also be done in the evaluation he promised, that would be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u126	This question has already been put by Mr Ester in the first term. How do you do that? There is no other way than in fact qualitatively. Unfortunately, that is inevitable. You'll consider how long people in what kind of situation are unsafe. You will take into account what lives among the population. In addition, the children come out again, but also all kinds of other groups. Since I cannot deal with all the theoretical situations, I find it difficult to explain how that will go, but we are all convinced that it must be done at some point. However, it can never be quantified entirely. There is no protocol system for it, but it must be justified. It is very difficult to carry out democratic ex post control without any justification. The bill now also contains an obligation to state reasons. I will try as well as I can to record what the considerations have been. I am, of course, susceptible to any kind of questioning or control over it. That is perhaps the way to refine it in society, so by having the debate about it and hearing from each other how you weigh things. I am convinced that my weighting at first is certainly not the only right one or even the right one. I will therefore have to be open to all kinds of challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u127	Mr Ester says it just right. At a certain point in time, the Minister will be sitting in front of a pile of paper in about a year's time, and then he will have to make a decision. The Minister is talking about quality in that context, but you can certainly establish a protocol for that. You can say: if we are so far beyond safety standards, that is something that needs to be weighed. So far, the Minister has not given the Chamber any insight into how one weighs it down from the other. The minister says you can't weigh it. It is not possible to put it together, but at some point you have to make a decision and it seems to me that you can put a number of frameworks next to each other and even make a protocol. I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u128	The fact that we have to make that assessment is clear, even if you cannot quantify it. No one in this Chamber disagrees with Mr Reuten in that regard, certainly not with me. I have tried to give more insight into the weighting, at least as far as I could, and to protocol it by mentioning its aspects in Article 52d, a to f. I can imagine that we are gradually moving towards a more sophisticated weighing practice than this and that we can gradually say: apparently this plays a role, or should we do so. Or: there are now clear measurements of this, which were not there at the beginning. Then that can refine itself. I'm sure this can happen, but now I can't. The people I've asked about this and the experts who've been working on this can't do it now either. It could also be that we will soon reach a level where gas extraction will be so low that we will no longer have to make these kinds of considerations, because we will then have gas extraction at an insignificant level or at zero. Of course, that's what I hope. In the meantime, a balancing practice could perfectly crystallize, but I don't have it in the pocket right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u129	I can understand that. There's gonna be another tough one next year. Why is the Minister not prepared, or perhaps is he prepared, to make his proposal on the decision and submit it to us? Then we can talk about it. That is the commitment I have asked: to submit the operational strategy to both Chambers. That's what we're here for, isn't it? We're not doing different things, are we? We're doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u130	I believe that Mr Reuten has asked for a commitment to the ministerial arrangement. I'll get to that later. Given the time frame in which I have to do this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u131	Now it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u132	Mr Reuten, if you want to say something that is in front of the report, you have to go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u133	I asked now about the operational strategy. I also asked for a commitment to this. I asked for the operational strategy to be submitted to both Chambers of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u134	First of all, I would like to give Mrs Teunissen the floor, because she is always spinning around the microphone. Now I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister talks about the overall balance. He makes them during the preparation of the strategy. Earlier in his speech he said that he made the importance of the safety of the Groningen very important: he put it first and makes it heavy. This integrated assessment has three aspects: the security of residents, the security of gas supply and the social importance of security of supply. That's three elements. I wonder how the safety of the residents in the consideration takes precedence over the other two? How is this balance being made? That has not been made clear in any way in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u136	I said it wasn't a binary trade-off. Then it would be zero, zero and one and we could throw away the other two aspects. In the end, it's about weighing. Anyone who presents you with a case admits that a weighting is at issue, because the consequences may be more serious than the safety you gain from it. The insecurity you call upon over you can also be greater than the safety you create. So that's a trade-off. I've said that weight and temperature can't be brought under the same heading. I can't weigh it quantitatively against each other. I can only state in the statement of reasons the way in which I have given a major interest, and therefore priority, to something. But we didn't finish it in a spreadsheet. That would have been attractive, but it can't be. I propose, also in response to the question that is now being put, that I do not refer to it in advance in a mining decision or an operational strategy, but we may as well have a discussion about it. You can do that either in advance or afterwards. Nor will the House of Representatives be denied that. There are all kinds of other experts who will look into it. We hope at some point a finer balancing practice crystallizes. I will be all ears to hear what refinements we can make, because no one will benefit from letting it go through life in the end as refined as possible. But again, I don't have it in my pocket, and no one who's worked on it has that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u137	The Minister says either in advance or afterwards. It would be very nice if it could be discussed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u138	Given the timing of this kind of thing, we can't. I am also honest in saying that I think it is an administrative responsibility, but democratic control must ultimately be unleashed on that driver and the driver must be challenged to justify himself and to motivate the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u139	But that is when the Minister has already taken the decision on the operational strategy. In principle, it is fixed for a year and then Parliament can say something about it. So that's probably not gonna have effect for another year. This is precisely what the Council of State is talking about: the unboundity that the Minister takes this decision and that Parliament can say something about it afterwards. It doesn't change the decision. It may at most change the decision of a year later, at most, but that does not even have to be the case, because the Minister will have the full power to define the operational strategy independently next year. It's in the bill, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u140	There have been more cases...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u141	Mr Pijlman, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u142	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's a follow-up. I understand that you are assuming administrative responsibility, also in view of the framework. It's important that you take responsibility. That is why we have asked whether all the opinions given in the process outlined are public, so that the States-General can follow your weighting. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u143	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u144	You may also have to answer Mr Reuten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u145	I understand what he's saying, but there are a lot of areas where post-control is possible. In this profession, you take one piece through operational decisions. Operational decisions are taken on behalf of and from the Empire on grants, licences: all things that are not quantified and for which a tough protocol has not been drawn up in advance, other than the drawing up of balancing criteria. Democracy also serves to monitor governance and rebuke it, call it to order, or send it away if it doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u146	Mr. Reuten, finally at this point. And briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u147	Then I'll let it pass. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u148	A legal definition of social interest, as Mr Reuten asks, is very far-fetched. In any case, it's too much digitized for me. Imagine if you forget something, then suddenly you can't think about it anymore. There too, perhaps in the long run, a finer weighing practice will crystallise. Mr Reuten asked for a commitment to the ministerial arrangement. I'll send these as soon as she's ready. She hasn't. I cannot make this formal, but I will be receptive to sensible comments and send the regulation as soon as it is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u149	I asked the same question. I don't understand why it's not possible. I also do not understand why you do not agree with the argument that precisely the tilting moments in the phasing-out should be included in this law, or be put before Parliament, so that Parliament can say something about it. You are depriving Parliament of the opportunity to consider itself and to decide on which phasing-out path is chosen for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u150	I'll come back to that later. We are going to talk about the actual phasing out of the gas, the path we are going to follow and the question of whether it should be in the law. I'll get back to you on that. One question that was still relevant to this point and was asked by Mr Schalk is whether we are in general in sufficient contact with the Groninger Gasberaad, who has also made a submission. The Groninger Gasberaad is actively involved in all kinds of matters. It is true that I do not always follow the advice of the Groninger Gas Council. In some areas, moreover, I do so almost entirely. I think I have had very intensive contact in the area of the damage protocol, including with the Groninger Soil Movement. I have tried very hard to follow the advice of these organisations. In other areas, this is not possible. This is the trade-off as it has been discussed. Then some questions were asked about liability, duty of care and the role of the NAM, by Mr Pijlman, but also by others. I think it is good to see what is now changing as a result of this law in the legal framework. Then I'll try to treat damage and fortify separately. In case of damage, there is currently a duty of care. At present, the NAM has a duty to prevent damage, including in the determination of the extraction level. That goes, of course, to the cabinet, to the minister, on the basis of the operational strategy. That's what happens in this bill. That does not mean that the liability of the NAM for damages changes. It is the NAM who, on the basis of the Civil Code, will have to compensate for the damage. It is also the NAM which, on the basis of the agreement on the main lines and on the basis of the legislative proposal that is still to come, will actually have to pay for that damage. The NAM will not handle that anymore, because that is what an Institute of Mining Damage is about, but it is not the case that the liability of the NAM changes, just the duty of care. That is not strange, because if someone else determines the level of gas extraction, you can accept duty of care for everything in the world, except for precisely the consequences of determining that level of gas extraction. This is in principle the case of the reinforcement. Read the subject of There too there is a duty of care to ensure safety. This is about the operational strategy and the reinforcement operation. The NAM was responsible for this: Article 33 of the Mining Act. That goes through the adoption of that operational strategy to the Minister, in this bill. It has not yet been said who is doing that. We're gonna have to think about that. The successor to the organisation of the National Coordinator Groningen will have to do so. But the payment is also with the NAM, even if it is necessary after 2030. That stays with the NAM. Of course, the criminalisation that goes with it no longer applies to these matters, because you cannot criminalize someone for something he has not done. If an operational strategy is prescribed, if the NAM does not follow it and as a result there would be insecurity, then there may still be a criminalisation. That's how it goes. Mrs Klip had already asked whether the NAM was completely out of the system. Well, not in terms of payment and actual execution. Not part of this bill, but crucial in this discussion, is the phasing out of extraction. Let me start with Mr Nagel's question: is extraction impossible after 2030 or not likely? Let me put it this way: all policies aim to exclude extraction, hopefully by 2030. The only thing is ""but that's with every verdict from this side, by the way, even from your side ""that you never see anything completely unforeseen. When the earth suddenly turns harder or other things happen, I don't know if that still fits my path of exclusion. But the policy is simply aimed at, full stop, point, nothing other than, by 2030 or earlier, end gas extraction, at zero. So the word "excluded" is the right word there. But many more questions have been asked on this subject, by Mr Pijlman, Mr Ester and Mrs Klip. First of all, let's talk about the zero of gas extraction. 'Cause why would you stop the gas extraction anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u151	We have the advantage that with "excluded" or "unprobably" we have two similar denominators, namely: it is so or so it is not. I'd like the Minister to take advantage of that great advantage. It's just one of two. You say in one piece: it's out of the question. Then you're 100% sure it won't happen. Either there are unforeseen circumstances, or another cabinet that makes other considerations. Then maybe it's probably something. It is one of two and it is unthinkable that the minister writes "it is excluded" in one week and writes in the other week: it is possible, namely "not likely." The Minister must now say which of the two pieces is correct and on which compass we can sail. That means "excluded" or "it's unlikely."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u152	I just answered that. The word "excluded" is the right word. Mr Nagel has to admit that, if anything is excluded, it is in any case unlikely, but it is meant to be 'excluded'. I just answered that. I think it's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u153	So the qualification that it is "unprobable" lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u154	I have now recorded here in the legal history that the word "excluded" is the right word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u155	Well, Mr. Chairman, in Groningen you can get the flag out. At least on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u156	I think that the letter of 29 March was also very firm about this. Mr. Chairman. Why now? There are also magazines that asked me that question. Why the gas extraction to zero? Gas is such a wonderful transition fuel, isn't it? Why do you have to do all that? Let me say in essence that we had a different idea. At the same time, that is an answer to Mr Flierman's initial question: it is very focused on the extraction of gas to zero, are there no other possibilities? Of course there are. In fact, we have made a very good effort to do so, namely to continue with gas extraction at a significant level. We have had years on which it was set at 27, even after that 53. We've had years of 23. We've had gas extraction at a significant level. We have justified this, according to the situation at that time, with all reasonable arguments. We have allowed this to be flanked by a very substantial strengthening operation. Very substantial. 22,000 houses were targeted to be fortified. That is also a concept: you continue with a fairly massive gas extraction and you continue with a fairly massive reinforcement call. But let me just say this. When I arrived, I had to establish that it was a fact that in recent years this operation was 95% behind schedule. Not because of anyone's fault: there is no culprit, and it is not about pointing out an evil pier. We didn't deliver on the promise. I don't blame anyone. I am now responsible, including under state law, for this. This is what it is. We tried, but it didn't work. We have also seen that, even with the 5% we have done in relation to the schedule, we have brought about more social unrest and discontent than we had expected. It was much heavier on the stomach, not only from the region, but also from The Hague. It's on the Dutch stomachs a lot heavier than I thought. It was disappointing. That is also the reason why we have not achieved safety with that concept. 12 is not enough. We have not been able to organise a strengthening with a level of 12 extraction. Those who read the SodM advice correctly see: yes, 12 if you... That's all the terms we didn't deliver. You have to be very hard on yourself at some point. Is this gonna work? I've confessed before. At some point, in February, March, I sat at home with all the pieces on the table with the question: Eric Wiebes, do you actually believe it? And I said no! I don't believe it anymore. Then you have to be consistent. I got my colleagues, easier than I expected, into that. If that plays out and the answer to that question is, then you may have a financial problem. I don't have a story at 12. I don't have it. I don't have a story. There are different motives. First of all, we're not delivering security. Secondly, the social consequences were much more severe. And yes, the seismicity didn't work either. It didn't take off any more than we thought, but it even increased more than we thought. That's what it is. Maybe some groups think I do, but no: we do not do this to take the Netherlands off the gas, or because it would be sustainable. The sustainability operation lasts until 2050, an entire generation. That has nothing to do with this. We're doing it because it's inevitable, because it's the only way we can do it if we want to deliver on our security promise. Then you can ask, and that's what I've been asked: why don't you say that in the law? I don't think it's weird not to put that in the law. In fact, we rarely put these kinds of public targets into law. We have no law telling us where we should be in 2030 with road safety, with nature protection, with birds, or that the bees should be back. Those are all very important things, but we don't put them in a law. The law sets a goal and gives instruments, and politics makes choices. But this is the choice. I'm gonna stick to that. I wrote it down in a letter on March 29th. All representatives of the people can appeal to the government. It contains the path until 2023 at 0.1 bcm precisely. This means that in 2023 we will enter a gas year in which gas extraction is 80% lower than today. 80% to 2023, that's what we do. 80% lower. I was also asked: why isn't the whole path in there? That's still to be reckoned on. If you come to very low levels, the fluctuations in demand and the fluctuations in the alternative supply become very significant compared to the total volume, but it is then again so much further in time that you can say that harder. So we have to do the same thing every year between now and 2023 and plan ahead. At some point, we'll know when it's at zero. That's what we need to know. That will certainly be before 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u157	Does the Minister mean 80% lower or 20% lower? Does he mean 20% goes off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u158	Eighty percent goes off. Now we are back on the safe ground where Mr Reuten and I can talk about numbers. It makes us both feel more comfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u159	Of course, it's an interesting argument. You say, "I don't think it's so crazy that this isn't in the law." I think that's crazy, because the law is to give people clarity and certainty. Citizens are supposed to know the law and we have a responsibility to ensure that the law is so unambiguous that it can also be steering. With a lawsuit, you didn't settle it. There are sufficient policy areas for which strict limits and standards are indeed laid down in the law. The question then is why you do not give us the opportunity in this legislative proposal to record that clarity in a socially sensitive dossier. You also often screen with "it may be disappointing" or "there are other data." Yes, but you don't want to dismiss that from the evaluation obligation. You can always adjust in consultation with Parliament, but you are denying Parliament the opportunity to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u160	I don't think so. I believe that Parliament's powers are being proposed far too thinly. If legislation were the only instrument of parliament, we would be far gone in this country. I don't think a law is a means of communication either. A law is there to lay down instruments, to bind parties to things, in the sense that they have to pay taxes or whatever. Here, perhaps, under parliamentary control, you also want to use the opportunities to go down faster, for example, if you can. I didn't just put measures in the basic path. I have put all kinds of measures on top that have not yet been included in the basic path by GTS, but which I am working on. I would, however, like to include it in the basic path, and I would like to publish a text on it every year with what the intentions are now. Then Parliament can appeal to me at any time. It could even send me away. Those are great powers. Isn't that what we have in terms of road safety, nature protection and the examples I have just mentioned? These are points on which Parliament, as a parliament, talks with the government, on which it expresses wishes and then decides whether it has sufficient confidence in the administration. That's how it goes, isn't it? We may be sitting here in a room that is more dominant about saying yes or no to laws, but there are people across the street who need you to do their job. And that's their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u161	Neither the minister nor I are a lawyer. The role of this Chamber is certainly to put the finger on those matters that need to be identified and that need to be known to citizens. On this subject, we have a very fruitful interaction with the Council of State, which always stresses these kinds of points. This sound is often heard in this Chamber. We have had this in the law on child labour, recently in the donor law and in the environmental law. There are a number of policy areas, which I would like to mention, where these standards are indeed included in the legislation. The discussion we are having here is about whether you do not want it because you have other reasons not to record it because of the process approach, or whether it is really a matter of: I am in such a hurry, I have to move forward and I cannot wait for the procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u162	No. If I was in a hurry right now, at least I could have put it in now. Maybe next year it would've gotten in trouble. I mean, those aren't my arguments. If that's the case, I don't know. No, I'm telling you the truth. I have also mentioned the arguments why I do not feel that way. I also think it is perfectly legitimate. We may not agree on this, I think. But I'm not gonna faint and bring in all these other motives. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u163	So the argument on your part can't be: I want it to be written in the law faster than I do? Because you have already mentioned that argument three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u164	Yes, it is. But that has nothing to do with time limits for treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u165	There is no objection to getting it done more quickly than is included in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u166	That's why. That's right. If we lay it down completely in the law, we won't need any more considerations. Weights are made precisely because something is not in a law and because you have to come to a certain conclusion by means of a consideration that is made every year. It's either one or the other. Either you make one consideration in advance and think: I have the wisdom in rent and this is the ideal path. Either you make that assessment every year and clear what your basic path is, and you are able to address any deviation from it in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u167	Mr Verheijen, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u168	I really believe that the Minister should not make a caricature of a standard in the law. It is not meant to be a binary consideration or an autistic algorithm at all. It is precisely the intention to use it as a motivation in such a way that everyone can see what the considerations have been. We are not given that opportunity in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u169	I would like to point out that Mr Verheijen and I may not agree on this, but I did not use those ugly words he just used for numbers in the law. No caricatures, no. I don't think so either. I also know that there are some things in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u170	I just heard the Minister say "but maybe he's correcting me that it's a yes or no and that there are people on the other side who have to do their job. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u171	Well, here it's more about saying yes or no to a law. Across the street is dominant keeping the minister to all kinds of forms, or sometimes at a different pitch...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u172	Well, I guess I got it all figured out. You said that's where the people who have to do their job are. I therefore hope that I have made a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u173	I do not doubt that you are doing your job, but on the other side too, I believe I have found that they are doing so. I'm regularly addressed to things that aren't in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u174	In addition to Mr Verheij's question, I was thinking of the Climate Law, which also sets out specific objectives for a given year, but at the same time does not say that an integral timetable should also be included in that law. With that you say: we have a final goal that we strive for. I believe, for many reasons, that this would also be good in this case, because it will also strengthen the commitment to zero by 2030 for future governments and future Chambers. That doesn't mean that you would have to include in that law how much is won exactly in what year, but it doesn't mean that it doesn't hurt at all to legally record that goal of going to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u175	I had already expected GroenLinks' question about the Climate Law. That is indeed an example in which we do. I didn't choose it here, but I had him in mind. I thought he'd come by. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u176	Now that the climate law is mentioned, I cannot resist the temptation to respond to it. The particular feature of the Climate Law is that it mentions this standard, but it immediately supports it: it is a political standard that cannot be derived from rights. That is the kind of expression that I do not think the citizens are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u177	I do not intend to make any critical comments about an initiative by the House of Representatives in this area. I hear Mr Flierman here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u178	That's where they work...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u179	We all work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u180	But it's our job to find some of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u181	I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u182	Sure, but mine isn't right now. Mr Verheijen asked separately about the ministerial arrangement. Things like the operational strategy, such as very specifically a minimum percentage of available conversion capacity or the date on which GTS estimates must be completed or elements of the measurement and control protocol, can be used in a ministerial arrangement. Those elements should not be in a law. This is about the principles, but, of course, all kinds of questions have been asked about the actual phasing-out, the phasing-out path. Mr Ester asked in the most general way: are all the proposed solutions well aligned? First of all, inland. There's the nitrogen plant with 5 to 7 bcm. Mr Pijlman asked: when will that thing be ready? The intention is that the first quarter of 2022 will be the same. From then on, the gas extraction can really go to a very significantly much lower level. From the second half of 2022, all measures will add up to about 80%. That thing costs 500 million euros. It is part of the gas infrastructure and is reimbursed in this way. GTS shall be the operator of that installation. The second major measure concerns large industrial consumers. It should preferably be a switch to renewable energy sources, but in some cases it will have to be high-caloric gas in the intervening period. Initially, the 53 largest consumers are in sight. They use over 3 billion cubs. There have been very constructive talks. All kinds of options have been identified for these parties. A separate board has been set up to manage the reduction of that Groningen gas. However, I must say that I am beginning to come to the conclusion that the discussions are very constructive when it comes to presenting ideas and possibilities, but that the action that results from them is still... At the moment everything is on schedule, but I foresee that we will not be on schedule if the non-committal will remain complete. I am now thinking about ways of giving it a slightly more compelling character. That's uncomfortable. You want to achieve this change through temptation, but it may well be that in not too long time I have to come to the conclusion that temptation alone is not enough. This would mean introducing more mandatory instruments. I'm still thinking if and if so, exactly how.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u183	Let's think about that. This is a journey that has been going on a bit longer. I cannot imagine that you have not already thought of a range of options in which you may not have made final choices. In any case, you will have thought of what these more binding measures might be. We are well aware that only one law is in place, but in terms of its feasibility, which, of course, we also have to seriously consider here, those adjacent pathways, although not part of the law, are essential. Could you give a hint of the veil of that shopping list of measures that might be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u184	I'm always quite tempted to tip off veils, but there's not enough veil yet. Well, then it's gonna be a bit of blanks. Clarity to parties in society means not only being clear about what you're going to do, but also spreading fog about things you might not do at all. I think that's part of clarity, too. So this is what I'm gonna keep under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u185	Perhaps as an additional question to try to shape that temptation in a different way. At what time do you think you can reveal these thoughts to the public? It is not a question of saying: I could choose between that or that and I have chosen those two measures. But what's the time you're gonna do this? 2022 and 2030 are incredibly close.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u186	Can I try to come up with an estimate in second term to answer Mrs Klip's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u187	My question follows, so perhaps you will take it up to the second term. I'll leave that to you. I understand very well that you cannot lift that veil, but in the context of my speech this is one of the risk factors. Is that whole ecosystem you've come up with, all these elements completely aligned? Are they all pointing in the right direction? I understand you're a little reluctant, but maybe I can reverse the story and ask how many large consumers do you already have on your side, if you know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u188	I don't have the last count on me. There are debates I am going to with such a count, but since this is not directly on the agenda, I do not have any last...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u189	Maybe we can do it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u190	I will see if such an image can be found, but of course it's all about gradations and stages. There have been conversations, there are ideas on the table...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u191	In second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u192	I will see to what extent and if so to what extent I can reply in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u193	I asked whether it would not be appropriate to include such measures with a more binding nature in this ministerial arrangement. That's what you call behind-the-hand measures. You can call it stick-and-root measures. It's so clumsy when you can only approach your partners through temptation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u194	I believe that too, but I would like to go over Mr Verheijen in the opposite direction. If it really is compulsory, then ministerial arrangements are not enough. Then it has to be in the law again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u195	You yourself have provoked this by opting for a process approach on this path rather than just a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u196	No, I don't believe that. I've outlined the path I want to go down. I never said that we would necessarily have no legislation on this. We need to see that. We're gonna start the conversations first, and we're gonna see how that goes and what the nature of those conversations is. We agree that, if necessary, there will be legislation. I will make proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u197	Mr Verheijen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u198	This is compelling, because this can increase the risk for the people in Groningen. That's why I insist on this. It is not a question of choosing between a procedural law or any other kind of regulation. No, it's about safeguarding physical interests, a minimum of social risk. This can only be done if you can work with both means, with the stick and the root. And you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u199	If that is the case in this case, it must be done. We don't disagree about that at all. If roots do not satisfy and sticks are needed, however unfriendly that sounds, moreover, to parties who are of good will in their own right, then we are back in this Chamber with the relevant legislation. I cannot disagree with Mr Verheijen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u200	Mr Verheijen, really, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u201	We disagree because you are moving this forward to the future and so it may be too late. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u202	It's not my intention to be late. At best, it's my intention not to start until I know it's necessary. Let's just wait and see. I'll report on it. As soon as it becomes necessary, I will come up with additional measures that may be legal. Mr Reuten, as well as Mrs Teunissen, raises the question of why you should not seek it in a tax incentive. That is the root or rather an inverse root: a higher gas load for low-caloric gas for large consumers. Or less low, as Mr Reuten says. That's higher, but I know what he means. I didn't choose that. We need to make the switch with those 53 parties by 2022. They each have their moments for that. If legislation is needed, I will do so, but I have not chosen to place a competitive disadvantage on parties who do not yet have an action perspective at the time or in any year. But if any other methods are needed, I'll consider them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u203	The minister comes with "social unrest." Is that the term for this? It may be that the gas supply to companies has to be closed down, doesn't it? The question is why the Minister does not react proactively. In terms of climate, something will have to be done about these low taxes, but that is not what we are talking about. So the question is when companies are worse off: with the same tax rate as today for SMEs or with closure in a catastrophic situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u204	Now it's about closure in catastrophic situations. I just said I wanted to think about what exactly is needed. But whether that should lead to closure and in what kind of situations... Let me not go along with Mr Reuten's concepts for a moment, but just think for yourself about what incentives and more compelling measures are needed to achieve the basic path. I have spoken out for a basic path. That is what Mr Reuten and I agree with each other. If it requires legal measures, then it must be done. Then I'll make proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u205	Mr. Reuten, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u206	I will not go along with that, but the Minister will go along with it in the explanatory statement. In the explanatory statement, the Minister may say that he did not use the term 'catastral' to say that it could be that we reach the moment when the big companies and then all companies must be closed down. Those are your words, not mine. You come up with that, and I'll respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u207	But that is a completely different subject. This is not about the transition from low to high-caloric gas in the period up to 2022. It's about the emergency scenario in case of some kind of disaster. That's a whole different thing. That emergency plan is coming, I believe, at the beginning of next year. But that's really a different subject. So when Mr Reuten refers to that: yes, I wrote that down, but that is another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u208	Mr. Reuten, perhaps you can come back to that in second term if you wish. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u209	Of course, we're dealing with an emergency scenario. We have seen the UN report and we have heard the Urgenda statement today. This really shows that the government needs to do much more to combat climate change. I hear the Minister saying that he does not intend to take these fiscal measures now, but I heard him make a different statement in a particular television programme. He said that liberals also love to clean up their own mess. Those aren't the literal words, but it did have that effect. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister is looking at the 'polluter pays' principle. That could be an excellent way of paying a fair price. If we look at the big companies, they pay 27 times less gas taxes. This could be a huge incentive to switch to sustainable alternatives. And yet the Minister says: you know what, there is no emergency, we wait a while, we negotiate and then we see. So how does he look at the polluter pays principle? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u210	I have had this discussion several times when I was responsible for taxation and then in my capacity as the climate manager. This place is way out of order. I could answer that. It wouldn't be the first time I've given that answer. But if we go out of order to this extent, then the debate is going to take a very long time. The next item is a legislative proposal to minimize gas extraction and reduce it to zero. The energy tax for large companies and its impact on the climate is a completely different subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u211	I find it very typical that the Minister characterizes this as a completely different subject. He said just now: we are also talking about minimising gas use. And: I'll go into that now. That's what he just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u212	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u213	Then this tax incentive is one of the measures that we can now take to drastically reduce gas extraction. And yet the Minister puts this aside and says that this is a completely different subject. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how he sees the relationship between the gas problem in Groningen and the 'polluter pays' principle. Doesn't the Minister see a solution there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u214	The polluter pays principle is about climate. This is a change that we must make in a generation until 2050: we must do everything we can, but we must also try to keep jobs and not hunt people down. That's quite a job, because serving the climate is not art, but keeping all the Dutch on board and serving the climate is an enormous art. That requires some caution. This is about principles such as 'polluter pays', and there are some ifs and buts that undoubtedly have to do with the playing field. But that's the climate debate. Furthermore, we have: the Netherlands off the low-caloric gas, the gas extraction in Groningen down. But that is a completely different point. There's another timeline. That's where the biggest blow is going to be made until 2022. There's 2050 out of the question. That should be cut and shaved by more than 2030. Those are other files. We can go into the climate issue very much and then I will explain that I think CO taxes are the superior resource and preferably not energy taxes. CO taxation is a much better instrument. In addition, it is as much as possible: the pollute pays, so the polluter pays. But as long as the Netherlands is not the whole world, but a very small country, and as long as our neighbours are not always involved, you can only do so with a certain delay. I find that sad, because everything that does not go through taxes is reporting for subsidies. I'm not in favour of that, but sometimes it's the only way. That's because, once again, it's not an art to go through the energy transition, but it really is an art if you want to keep the activity here, keep society pleasant and not hunt people down. That's the art.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u215	Mrs Teunissen, I would like to end the discussion on this point. We're working on the bill on gas extraction, and otherwise we're really getting too far away from the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u216	Very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u217	Well, then mini-mini. And then I don't want to discuss this anymore here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u218	It is a national tax measure that you can take to make gas use less attractive. Why does the Minister not use this until 2030 in the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u219	I have just said that I think levies are a good means, but that we are dealing here with the situation that the Netherlands is not alone in the world and that we would completely destroy the level playing field and drive emissions abroad, with the jobs involved. Mr. Chairman. I was only in the domestic measures, but Mrs Klip asked with particular interest about exports. What we do with exports is that we turn some millions of households in Germany, Belgium and France into a ten-year path. But my more intensive correspondence and contacts with the foreign colleagues are mainly focused on the large consumers there. Cologne now has a power plant and has been rapidly converted to a connection to high-caloric gas, which means that much less low-caloric gas is needed from Groningen. The German network operator, GTG Nord, has also launched projects to reduce the demand for Groninger gas. There are other projects, but they still have to be approved by the German energy regulator. That's what we depend on. But I am in close contact with foreign colleagues, especially the Germans, who show all kinds of progress in order to reduce this. There is intensive consultation with France. In Belgium, the possibilities seem very limited. But also abroad participates. It is discussed at the government's level. Nord Stream doesn't exactly have a role in that. I mean, Nord Stream doesn't come from low-caloric gas. Where no sustainable solutions are embraced but there is a switch to high-caloric gas, we are therefore dependent on sufficient gas supply. Now the Norwegians are not afraid for a little one because they have a multiple of the Groningen gas field, and I believe that it is not half gone either. However, in general, Europe's demand for gas is not falling sharply, but supply is falling. This also applies to the offer from the Netherlands and also to the high caloric offer from the Netherlands. In the long run, that could mean looking at other sources. But that is operationally independent of this exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u220	I know, of course, that Nord Stream is not going to transport low-caloric, but high-caloric gas. I thought I said that, too. And I understand that the Minister cannot say in detail how much he has already achieved. But here, of course, there is a bit of the same question that also applies to domestic use. However, the Minister does not have any binding measures at his disposal. How does he look at the "tempo" of actually effecting or turning into action the understanding that our foreign customers have for the fact that low-caloric gas is running out soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u221	Well, I must say that I have received a great deal of understanding from the German side. There are a lot of initiatives there and there is a lot of reaction there. I have praised them several times for their cooperation. In Belgium the possibilities seem really less and there is still discussion with France. But I have repeatedly thanked my German colleague for the very proactive way in which that was thought of. We are still dependent on the German network supervisor for all kinds of permissions, but there is no lack of initiatives on the German side. Mr Flierman briefly considered that level of 4. I just want to remind you that that really is an intermediate position. That is the level where the planned sequence happens to be going, but it really is the intention to go to zero. So you can go through that line, I just don't know exactly how yet. But it's not like we're gonna keep winning at a level of 4 for a long time because that would be a kind of buffer. It is true that the endgame is still difficult to quantify and that it is still being counted on. But 4 is in no way a kind of plateau; that is really not the intention. It is therefore not the case that a level of 4 can therefore be assumed to be safe. In fact, if you go to zero now, there's still some seismicity to be expected. You can't assume that we'll be done strengthening immediately. You can't say that. Mr Ester asked whether a higher acceleration of the phasing-out would be conceivable. That is a complicated question, because it has, of course, been asked many times before to previous Cabinets. And then the answer was no. Now we see a very fast exit path. Let me say this: I did not have to interfere with any conditions other than precisely the considerations in the letter, and certainly not with financial conditions. This is the fastest possible path within the social conditions that I have reasonably seen and which I have pushed very hard against. But that letter mentions a number of measures which are not in the basic path but which I am investigating. However, these measures have simply not yet been met by the GTS organisation. If they honor them, they'll also be included in the base path and that's the new base path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u222	We have such an operational strategy every year. Imagine all those elements that we have already talked about this evening leading to the conclusion in that operational strategy that there could be an accelerated phasing-out. Is that going to be part of a policy? Did I get that correctly? Is this operational strategy going to be built over the years, so that it may prove that we can speed up the phasing-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u223	This operational strategy will have a different impact every year. We need to distinguish between operational strategy on the one hand. This is about how, depending on the circumstances, you can win as little as possible. On the other hand, there is the question of how many questioners you think you can disable or how much alternative offer you think you can arrange. That's what the basic path is. That basic path could also change. Suppose, for example, I have increased the possibility of buying in nitrogen, on top of what we do by building an additional nitrogen plant. If that purchase proves to be possible on acceptable terms, then another bcm goes off, and then we adjust the basic path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u224	That's exactly the answer to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u225	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u226	Will the base path be modified?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u227	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u228	And that stands for the years after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u229	Yes. Yes. In fact, every year, GTS looks at the measures and whether they can be taken into account. It'll be the basic path. As a result, Mr Ester asked about the decommissioning and disposal of the infrastructure. A cluster is closed by the NAM, but only after the Minister's agreement. It's the Minister's call. Once a cluster is no longer needed in the strategy, so do we. The decommissioning of that infrastructure is paid for by the NAM. By the way, this is regulated by the Mining Act. It's all gonna have to be done properly. There are all kinds of passages about this in the Mining Act. A very good point, including from Mr Ester, is the communication with all those concerned about the phasing-out. In any case, my experience is that communication in this dossier and in relation to people in Groningen in the earthquake area is often inadequate. Maybe I should charge myself for that, but sometimes I don't have it entirely in hand either. Sometimes you send out a letter and you think it's perfectly clear, and the next day you read the opposite in the newspaper. It's very difficult to communicate what's really going on. Sometimes we sit together with provincial leaders and municipalities and we think: this is clear now. Then we think we're clear and then it's not always clear. For example, it was thought that reinforcement operations had been stopped, while no one had ever stopped anything. So communication is a very important point and it will be very clear at the time of phasing out. In any case, I believe that communication towards these 53 large consumers has been clear. It was clear on the sharp. Perhaps that communication with the recipients is even experienced as occasionally unpleasant, I must admit. Also letters from my hand were not the kindest. There are no ugly words in it, but there was a very compelling tone. Of course, when it comes to households, citizens who need to get rid of gas, that is ten times more precarious. I am now really thinking with the "table boss" Samsom, but also with the "table minister" Ollongren how we are going to get the gas off in a proper way in the next generation of homes. That's not easy. You have to make it clear to people that their home will still be heated, that there will still be cooking, but in a different way. That way must be clear and it must be affordable. We're kind of breaking our mind about that. So this is more than communication, because a lot of solutions and funding are really needed. There's a whole pallet you can offer. But even so, communication is extremely critical. Perhaps this is the point that determines the success or failure of this entire transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u230	I think at the beginning of your answer you yourself took the key word in your mouth. You said that trust must be gained and that it will eventually go through the "delivery." I believe that is what you literally said, and I would like to underline that. This, of course, also has to do with the fact that the resolution of the damage is now very slow and the recovery operation is complex. The same applies, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u231	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u232	Those two things are, of course, very connected in the minds of Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u233	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u234	That has one-on-one to do with trust and good communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u235	Yes. And in the case of damage and strengthening, there I come up with something more than communication. That's a hell of a job. I'll get to that in a minute, because there have been all kinds of questions about that. I have indicated that I would also like to answer the questions that do not directly relate to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u236	I would ask Members to be a little more cautious in interrupting, because I am looking at the clock. I can see some more files in the secretary's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u237	I'm gonna try to move on. But it's getting better. Mr Nagel asks how much gas was consumed in the gas year 17/18. That seems to control at 20 billion cube. In the coalition agreement was 21,6, so the actual figures are slightly lower. Mr Nagel also pleads for a natural gas tribunal, which I do not like. I think that Parliament is in favour of addressing the government on matters and that there is no need to be looked at at a tribunal there. There were a few more questions that had to do with SodM. Mr Flierman of the CDA asked how we deal with the opinions of SodM. In the case of the safety advice to 12 bcm we know how that ended. I have not only read the number 12, but also read it well between the lines and seen that the 12 was not enough. I think that opinion has been taken more than to heart. SodM can advise requested and unsolicited. This advice will be published immediately and everyone knows the pressure of a SodM opinion. If one should be called a party that does not suffer from a lack of confidence in the earthquake area, then it is SodM. SodM is generally considered very credible, very expert. I'm gonna change my mind three times before I even careless about SodM's advice. I haven't done that yet. Can the Minister intervene quickly, Mr Flierman asks for further action, following an opinion from SodM? Yes, I can intervene directly in the operational strategy. This competence exists: in the event of a serious deterioration of safety, immediate action can be taken. This can be done at all levels, where it can even come to a switch-off variant. But there will be more about that in January. Mr Reuten asked whether there was a difference between the Minister's risk assessment and that of SodM. No, but I know what he means. Because, in my opinion, SodM works with different levels of uncertainty, thus meeting the same safety standards. We've all embraced 1 in 100,000, but the odds of housing meeting them are estimated by SodM with two different uncertainties. So that's where different numbers of houses come from. In previous debates I was sometimes blamed with figures, which was quite disrespectful, because it was the figures of SodM, which simply gave rise to different estimates. I didn't think sodm's side was magical in any way. But we do have the same standard, and it's up to SodM to hang on to different probabilities. I'll follow that supervisor. That's what we said. In the case of reinforcement, the Mining Council's advice was actually even more decisive than I had previously thought. We said in the gas decision that we wanted to continue the ongoing reinforcement. So wherever there wasn't just a signed contract, but wherever there was a reinforcement advice on the table, it just went on. We didn't want to add new homes to the waiting list, because first we wanted to know from the Mining Council what they thought. The Mining Council came up with the advice to do that very differently. The reinforcement operation new style has all kinds of elements that the old didn't have, but is aimed at a much higher speed, but also at much lower numbers. Because the 22,000 is actually out of sight with the new gas decision, and there is a core of 1,500 homes. If you're counting on another probability, it's 7,200 properties we're gonna do. Every year a new estimate is made of this, and these people are all visited, they get a recording of the house, there comes an expert, who says what it takes. The Mining Council calls that a catalogue approach. Everything is aimed at making speed, because we have all seen that the speed in the old situation was not guaranteed. There will be a legislative proposal that will determine what standards and how they will be strengthened, how the priorities will be set, who will do so and how the NAM will pay for it. In the first quarter of 2019 I will give this bill in consultation. But it is clear that the National Coordinator Groningen (NCG) will start earlier. In fact, housing was announced last week. According to the new methodology, too, this will happen soon. As municipalities, provinces and the Empire, we jointly awarded the assignments to the NCG in July. We did an interim survey on 20 September, taking note of progress and laying down a number of principles together. It was good to establish these things constructively with each other there, as we used to do in the past. The National Coordinator has let us know he's coming up with a plan soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u238	A plan? Does that mean that there will be a concrete plan for 2019 for how many houses will be strengthened in what way, already in the spirit of the new law, which will be presented to Parliament next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u239	That is the task that the directors have jointly given to the NCG. I understand from the NCG that he will come forward with such a plan before the end of the year. There are already concepts that are still being worked on. People are working very hard. I would like to express my sympathy for the situation of the NCG organisation. There are people who have tried it for three years with heart and soul in one way. They have stood in rooms for the most unfortunate and staggering messages and they must now do so in a different way. That conversion does require something from that organization. I'm asking for some understanding. But the NCG has informed me that he expects to come up with that elaborate plan in the not too long term, and it is good that Mr. Pijlman says that he does not intend to do it at all for the next six years. We have stated as a principle that only what you can deliver can be promised. This means that in the short term you will outline what you are going to do, after which you will always periodically update it, rolling forward. That's the idea. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u240	You have already stated a few times that the entire damages settlement is not covered by this law, but fortunately you will take a look at it. A lot of Groningers still have the feeling that they're linking that to this law. A lot of damage cases have been inventoried, but not all residents have accepted the offer. How do you feel about this? In a lot of cases it also appeared that the offer was lower than the contractor's final offer. How is it that, with all this bureaucracy surrounding it, we are not going to get to grips with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u241	Mr Van der Sluijs says that I am bringing this up, but frankly I am not at all there, because I am talking about the reinforcement. Those are really two different things. There are houses that need to be reinforced, but they have no damage, there are houses with damage that don't need to be reinforced, that's two separate operations. I would very much like to address his questions, which are also very important, but I had quite randomly started with the reinforcement, because it is closest to this law in the sense that it is about safety. That's why I brought that up. That operation is about to start the NCG on behalf of the drivers. When exactly that happens, let's depend on the NCG. He did agree with the mayors that there should also be some time for local administrators to inform their own residents about this. That has to be done in a proper way. Nothing is worse than sending a list into the world and not having a story. You scare the hell out of yourself as a resident. So that goes in a neat way. I will come back to the damage later, because that is a very important subject. It does not have much to do with this, but we all see why these questions are being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u242	I understand now that we've already arrived at the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u243	No, no, no, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u244	Okay, we're still at the SodM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u245	I'm gonna try to move on. The chairman looks at me hard all the time. I'll get to that, but not now. I have a few more questions. Mrs. Klip asked about the Centre for Safe Living. The Safe Living Centre is now a kind of performer for the NAM, but the NAM will not be in there anymore. So that can no longer be the case. So we will have to rethink that organisation in some way, but it can no longer be the case that the NAM is at the table as the performer. I just can't; I can't. Exactly how much work is still under way. Mr. Ten Hoeve asks if the number of homes to be strengthened can still increase. It is even more fundamental. Yes, you can, but the real answer is, of course, that it does not suit me to take positions on the number of homes from my role. In all honesty, I want to have as much independent judgment as possible on what is needed for safety. I always want to say one sentence: 'That which, according to those appointed for this purpose, is necessary for safety, must be done and must be paid'. Period. The SodM is going to test that annually and also looks at that prioritisation. Every year we work according to the latest data and that what is needed for safety is necessary. If it's not 7,200 but 8,200, then so be it. I shouldn't say that. Then everyone would suspect me to adjust the numbers downwards. I don't; maybe my successors will. But you don't have to. So I am not going to give a ruling on this, other than that it is quite conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u246	I couldn't agree more. I was concerned that there are still so many uncertainties that people are at risk of increasing housing. Once the houses have been established and the residents know that their homes are being strengthened, the risk of new people getting that message may persist for many years to come. This is also a form of uncertainty which I fear we will not be able to resolve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u247	Well, I don't know. I'll leave that to the experts. In letters, the SodM said that, with the margins it has taken in uncertainty, it is expected that it could remain roughly at 7,200. But it won't be me. If, on the basis of new seismic insights, new calculation methods and new knowledge, it is necessary that the number changes, then I will not have to stop it. That's not right. I have also made it clear that this must be invested somewhere in an independent party, behind a fence. That's not something I should all be judging from my chair. That wouldn't help confidence either. The issue of reinforcement, but also damage, is a very important one. Of course, we've agreed on a damages protocol for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u248	Mr. Arrowman. I'm giving everyone an opportunity for one more interruption at the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u249	I asked if the SMEs in the region, when the reinforcement operation starts, would also be invited to participate so that the operation would provide work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u250	That's a very good one. I would very much like to answer that question with a yes, but then I will also get into the field of work of the NCG. I have to say, I don't know the answer exactly. Wishful answers that come on behalf of another are no longer desirable at some point. So let me see what the NCG's policy is at this point. I may have the answer to that in the second term, but it may also be that I should remain guilty of the answer. As far as the damage is concerned, we have a new damage protocol. In that we agreed several things. The first was that we could not reasonably solve the old damages cases through the new window. Unfortunately, that seems to be all too true afterwards, but that group consisted of 6,000 cases. Of these, roughly 5,000 have now reached a decision, but the other 1,000 have gone to the arbitrator. That's their right. Then there's another way to find justice. We still have to ensure that the arbitrator has and is entitled to sufficient capacity. The first responsibility for this lies, of course, with the arbitrator, but there is good contact with it. The new damages cases then ended up with an independent organisation. We wanted it to be separate from the NAM. I said it wasn't enough to have the NAM remotely and that we wanted to cut out the NAM completely. So that's what we did. We have organized it publicly with a temporary provision. That's the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, Groningen. Mr Van der Sluijs asked about this in the first term, but also just now. What did we get there? We had to set up a new organization in no time with people who didn't know each other at all, rent a property and install ICT. You usually take a year for that, but we had three weeks. At the time, we decided that I might have been a little too hard on that. We did not really want to take over inspectors who used to work for the NAM, because that is not good for trust. Well, we knew that, because then you can't find enough people to do the job. I'm telling you honestly now that my desire to get away from the NAM can't be fully realized in the end. Furthermore, we thought we'd get ready-made files, but we got empty files. A large part of the files consisted of name, address and place of residence; point. So we actually had to start over with a new organisation with too few inspectors. We need to work on this in a variety of ways. Let me just say that this is not something where I can intervene in such an organisation, because it is indeed independent. If I'm gonna stir in too much, everyone can think that I'm suddenly meddling in the damage settlement. This must not be done; it must be done independently by experts. People need to be able to trust that experts independently, by a public body, have been judged by experts, but the speed has to be really higher. So does the chairman of the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage. At the moment, the speed is increasing. There's a combination of things: it's in ICT and it's in more capacity, especially in recordings. A lot of things are now being done to increase speed. We are now at 1,000 closed and paid damages, but there are still 16,000. So it really has to be faster. The estimate of the TCMG itself is that the working stock may have been eliminated before the end of 2019. That would be very nice. I'm following it very closely, but I can't pull the strings myself. But we all really think this should be done faster, because it is wonderful that it is independent of the NAM, but if too little happens then, we are actually back to square one. Then there were a few questions on the main points of the agreement, among others from Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Van der Sluijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u251	Mr. Schalk, I've just told you all to interrupt once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u252	Certainly, I will be very brief, Madam President. I have a question about the work stock at the end of 2019. Could you describe that word "work supply" a little better? What do you mean by that? That the files would be ready or that the work would be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u253	No, the president of the TCMG means that the backlogs have fallen. 'Cause now you're talking about backlogs. Yeah, we started with a catch-up, but it hasn't walked in yet, and it has to be done. In the direction of Mr Van der Sluijs, I say that not only has the agreement been signed on the main lines with Shell and Exxon, but that it has now been worked out in further agreements, because an agreement is on the main lines. Then, of course, there are binding legal documents. It's all legally binding. No, it doesn't rely purely on trust. It simply relies on legal provisions. Mrs. Klip says there are also situations where you can review things. Yeah, that's true. It can be very useful to write down that you can review things, but you do that only when all parties agree. If a party does not agree, the agreements in the agreement simply remain in force. In that sense, you can say that we have a veto. Only if the State agrees with the revision will there be a revision and otherwise it will simply remain in force. So these review clauses do not affect the agreements that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u254	Mrs. Klip, one, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u255	I choose my interruption carefully, because I only get to go once. On October 1st, you will write that there is such a review moment in case of a mining decline below 12 bcm and at the end of 2019. I understand that all parties to such an agreement must agree on this. The question is: why exactly those two times? What's the underlying idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u256	The underlying idea may be that at that time, as a State too, you want to have the opportunity, for example, to redesign the form in which the guarantees exist. If by then gas extraction is stopped, if you may have more insight into the risks and further claims that might arise for damage and strengthening, you might want to come to other arrangements. With mutual consent, you also want to create a moment to discuss this with each other. Maybe you'd like to get paid off or do whatever you want. That time has been chosen, but if you do not agree on that, the obligations will of course continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u257	Mr. Van der Sluijs, one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u258	Thank you for your answer, but I also had a question about suspensive measures. You haven't said anything about that yet. What were these suspensive measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u259	I don't know by heart what the suspensive measures were. Those were the measures which would not then be included in further contracts. It is now obsolete, because all this has happened, so there are no more suspensive measures. On the question of what they were, I must remain guilty of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u260	I said one, Mr. Van der Sluijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u261	Are we going to be informed about these suspensive measures later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u262	I'll see if I can report that. I've been trying to be public about almost everything. I almost did, but not quite. Mr Reuten asked about the hardness of the guarantees. We have agreed such guarantees, including on the underlying oil companies and in such a way that we can be sure, even after we have had some kind of due diligence done by experts, that all damage and all reinforcement will be compensated at any time, regardless of the period. That is what we have been striving for, and that is what we have been given. Mr Reuten also asked about the exit plan. That was his previous point. Before the end of the year I try to inform the House of Representatives about a kind of protection and recovery plan and that is about how you deal with the gas supply in an emergency. That's different from what we just talked about, but he did ask that question. Mr Binnema asks how good is the image of what is happening in the subsurface. In areas where gas is extracted, the subsurface is well in sight, especially in Groningen in the past 55 years. In the case of salt or geothermal heat, this is at a different level. We have been doing salt for years and sometimes there is a lot of knowledge of the caverns, but sometimes we start with geothermal energy. Then it's a public interest to start drilling, because you know that geothermal energy is possible or because it's very valuable to know that no geothermal energy is possible. In areas without mining activity there is of course also a less good image of the subsurface. I think we have recently experienced a kind of small revival of earthquake knowledge. We then asked for advice from the Mining Council and from all kinds of other organisations to make one advice as a team. Not only did the Mining Council cooperate with the Mining Council, but also the SodM, which has an advisory and supervisory role, TNO, which is a private organisation, the KNMI, which also has all kinds of other roles. All these organizations have been together and not all these people knew each other. They had a very intensive exchange of knowledge there, and when they came to the conclusion that they could strengthen each other's knowledge in all kinds of areas and that they agreed on a lot of things, even though they had not yet worked together. So you can see that sometimes we need to have a role in making sure that all knowledge is mobilized. Mr Nagel is asking about the children. I think the most important thing is to make sure that these children grow up at a time when Groningen is once again the energy province of the Netherlands, but in a sustainable way. It should be that when those kids are 30, they've actually kind of forgotten that there was gas extraction, but they do have a job in hydrogen production, in wind power or in all kinds of other ways. It would be nice if we had employment in a different way and those children, as we forgot acid rain, actually forgot that there was once gas extraction, because there are so many other things to do in Groningen. I think that, in the end, stopping gas extraction is simply the best way to offer these children safety and ensure a new future. Mr. Chairman. I'm through the questions, I mean and I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u263	I can see Mr. Reuten getting up. Mr. Reuten, one question, huh? One, yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Due to the uncertainties of the models and the change in model outcomes following new heavy earthquakes. We agree on this, I assume: if there is a new major earthquake, then the model outcomes change, because you have an empirical input from the earthquakes in the past. My specific question was: in what calculated individual earthquake risk and in what actual number of serious injuries and/or deaths caused by earthquakes does the Minister proceed to partial or total gas closure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u265	That's such a hypothetical situation, I really can't answer that, and so does Mr. Reuten. I am told a subset of parameters, without further explanation from a supervisor or an expert who first makes a judgment on this. He'll ask me when we close the gas tap. That is what Mr Reuten is asking me about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u266	Very briefly, Mr. Reuten. Yes, really, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u267	No, I'm not asking. I am trying to find out what Article 52c is proposing, namely the fundamental choice that the Minister must make. And then I lay him a simple case, a fucking case, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u268	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u269	I know that very well. I'm gonna give him a fucking case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u270	Once was enough, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u271	I'll bring him a nasty case and then I'll ask him what he'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u272	In a nasty case, which I would like to know much more about than just these nasty numbers, I would still let the experts come to an opinion and make an administrative decision on that basis. The case is not going to lead to a decision here. That is what Mr Reuten is asking me about, but that may be my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u273	You were done answering your question, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u274	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u275	Mr. Reuten, you asked me for a very short suspension. You asked for 15 minutes, but I'd like to limit it to a minute or ten or twelve. By the time we get back to work, it'll be 9:15. So I'm gonna give you a short suspension until 9:12, and then we can get back to work at 9:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u276	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34957, Amendment of the Gas Act and of the Mining Act on Minimising Gas Extraction from the Groningen Field. We have arrived at the second term of office. Mr Van der Sluijs is running out of time. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will discuss two points. The first concerns the terminology of the bill. In the definition of security importance, the legislative proposal uses a terminology that does not correspond to the daily language. Okay, but that has to be consistent and that consistency is not consistent in the pleadings and the notes of reply. If for some reason there is a legal procedure following this bill and the judge has to decide, then the situation is unclear because the terminology changes. Let me give you an example from the present. The Minister said just now: my heading three is the balancing of security versus security of supply. Well, that's exactly one of those examples that doesn't match the definition of the bill, which defines security including security of supply. I think it is a prerequisite for a legislative proposal that it is consistent and consistent, but that is not the case now. In essence, this is a subordinate point. I mean, it's annoying that terminology keeps changing, but that's not the essence. I would like to mention an example which I have just given. The essence is the unbounded competence. If the parliament instructs the government to levy taxes and the government can choose how it does it, that is an unbounded power. We are not used to granting powers of this kind in this country. In Article 52d, however, there is such an unbound competence. I am taking over the term of the Council of State, in which the Minister is free to choose between safety of life and security of gas supply. Now I have tried twice to persuade the Minister to be specific about this, at least to do so through a case so that we can understand a little about what that unbound competence means. I have asked twice to indicate the calculated safety standard to which the Minister is making partial or total reduction in delivery. I can't get an answer to that. I can't get an answer to the next case either. Suppose there's a massive earthquake where there's serious injuries and deaths. That's not ruled out. The SodM doesn't rule that out, the NAM doesn't rule that out and the KNMI doesn't rule that out. My question to the Minister is: how many deaths and/or serious injuries does he turn to what he himself calls the socially disruptive situation of total or partial closure of gas supply? These are specific questions that I do not get a concrete answer to. If I do not get a concrete answer to these specific questions, then that makes me extremely suspicious, Minister, I am sorry about that unbounded competence. I cannot understand why the Dutch Parliament gives the government an unbounded power on these important points. I have asked for commitments from the Minister on both points. I didn't get it. I am therefore tabling a motion on both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u278	You'll have to give the motions to the clerk, because I'll read out those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u279	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u280	Which motion shall I read first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u281	I don't care. The President shall: Mr Reuten, Mr Verheijen, Mr Binnema, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gerkens and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed Article 52d Mining Act distinguishes between "safety interest" and "social interest";]] [[noting that the legislative proposal defines "security interest" (Article 52a) but lacks a definition of "social interest";]] [[Whereas "social interest" is a key element in the "crucial" Article 52d (the expression "crucial" of the Council of State), and whereas the legislative proposal therefore has an important gap giving the government an unclear competence;]] [[calls on the Government to include a definition of "social interest" in an early new amendment to the Mining Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Mr Reuten, Mr Verheijen, Mr Binnema, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gerkens and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of the proposed Article 52d Mining Act, the Government adopts the "operational strategy" for the extraction of gas in the Groningen field;]] [[Whereas this "crucial" article gives the government an "unbound power" to adopt and amend the operational strategy (the "crucial" and "unbound competence" of the Council of State);]] [[Whereas the Chambers with this unbound competence may at most appeal to the government afterwards on the choices made by it, but this does not change the choices made, whereas these are crucial for, first of all, the residents of the Groningenveld and, secondly, the supply of gas to final customers;]] [[calls on the Government to include in an early new amendment to the Mining Act the provision requiring the adoption of the operational strategy prior to the approval of both Chambers of the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-I]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u282	You were done with your second term input, Mr. Reuten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u283	I am ready in second term, but I hope that the Minister will answer the specific questions I have asked him in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u284	I'm sorry it took you so long. I just had to quickly explain to the new clerk how it works with the motions and the letters on the motions. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u285	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating my new colleague Binnema on his clear maiden speech. I would then like to thank the Minister for answering my first-term questions. It was nice to see his passion when he shared with us the fundamental insight that we are not going to make it to offer the Groningen the promised security with the delay of the reinforcement approach and at 12 billion cubic cubic metres of gas extraction. Therefore, the decision to reduce gas extraction from the Groningenveld by 80% until 2023 and then to reduce it to zero in a way historically until 2030. We must not forget all the critical questions, including those of my group. I called that a paradigm shift in the first term, a paradigm change. That's what we're talking about in this file, isn't it? Thanks also for its commitment to regular review of the legislative proposal, starting in three years' time. I assume that this evaluation will be truly comprehensive and comprehensive and that the various weighting criteria will be considered, with an emphasis on the safety perspective. I would ask the Minister to confirm this in his second term. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, it was good to see how the Minister dealt with the weighting of those gas extraction decisions, which is, of course, a very basic and crucial issue, and which will weigh very heavily on the security interests of the Groningen. In the documents he speaks of "giving priority to." We, as the Christian Union Group, are well aware of this. I understand that a quantified weighting model is impossible, because it is very uneven. I think it is now mainly based on a reasoned administrative consideration. Nevertheless, the Minister's speech remained somewhat fluid. The point made by Mr Verheijen about the qualitative displacement series from the freshwater supply was very appealing to me. If the honourable Member will allow me to do so, I would like to ask the Minister to what extent he wants to be inspired by this qualitative balancing model from the water world. In the end, it is a question of being able to exercise our control function properly as a parliament. For this we need objective indicators in the balancing process that the Minister himself has gone through. The bill is a first in a series of at least three proposals. That is also a bit the easy part of the discussion we have had today. Most groups felt the same way. We have now taken a significant step, but that does not mean that we have any clarity over the whole runaway. We will not only have to reduce gas production crediblely and quickly, but we will also have to deal with the damage that has been caused quickly. The recovery operation now needs to get on steam quickly. This trinity, if I may call it that, is indispensable to regain the confidence of the Groningen. The Minister needs a great deal, but at least we wish him well in carrying out his mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u286	Thank you. I call Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the clear and structured answer to the many questions. Remarkable is that you see his sincere involvement in the file. We appreciate that very much. It is a hell of a job and we realize that very much. This proposal will provide us with an operational strategy aimed at zero. That really is a turnaround. Moreover, with this bill, the NAM moves to a very different position, as many here, in the Lower House and in society have always asked. That too is a big profit. GTS is coming up with proposals. The Minister will be in position and SodM and ACM will act as supervisors, in which a DCA cycle has actually been realised. That, too, is a profit. Sure, there's a tricky element in it too. This has been emphasised by many today. I refer to Article 52d, which contains the weighting of interests. We still believe that this weighting, which is temporary, must be seen in the light of the phasing-out, but at the same time it makes it necessary for the strengthening operation which will have to strengthen the security situation for a number of years to come. We thank the Minister for the fact that the opinions of SodM and the views will be made public. This is necessary in order to put Parliament in a position where we can call the Minister to account when he reveals his operational strategy. The ministerial arrangement is also sent to the Chamber, the Minister has promised. There are still a number of thorny points about the phasing-out of mining. The Minister just said that by 2023 gas extraction would have decreased by 80%. Mr Reuten was actually shocked. He said 20%, right? No, 80%. But then it is necessary that in 2022 the first quarter run that nitrogen plant. That's an investment of 500 million. GTS is going to exploit it, but we need to start the process all over again. The previous cabinet had just stopped this construction. It would not be the first time that such a large project has run out of time. How do we keep track of the factory becoming operational by 2020? Otherwise, the plan to move quickly to zero can be delayed. At Mrs Klip's questions, the Minister said a number of things about exports and export opportunities. In due course, if there is more clarity, we would like to be informed, because that too is crucial if we are to get to that zero position. There are a lot of people who say, "Well, you're buying Norwegian gas, aren't you? No, that's a completely different composition. For example, the boilers in our houses don't turn on them. The reinforcement operation-new-style. The Minister said: yes, we are coming up with some sort of performance agreement before the end of the year. The NCG will come up with a plan soon. I assume that we will be informed about this and will be able to follow the results of the annual plans, which are always being adapted. The Minister still owes me an answer as to whether the strengthening operation can involve SMEs in the region, so that they too can benefit and provide this work for the region. I hope the Minister will be able to say something about this, otherwise perhaps in writing later. Finally, the settlement of damages. Raise the speed. Yeah, there's still 16,000 lags to go. Yes, I mentioned it in my own contribution. When the files were transferred, they just turned out to be empty. There was nothing in it. That is actually a shameful situation. That is precisely why it is so important for the government to take over these tasks. That should be done by the end of 2019. We talked about the communication. It is extremely important that, if we continue to do so, there should also be clear communication to the people involved. If you know it's gonna take a while, it's better than that total confusion that's bothering a lot of people right now. I'd like action on that point, too. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that we will, of course, advise our group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u288	I just want to make sure that we understand each other. According to the bill, the Minister sets out the operational strategy for a whole year. Afterwards, he can be asked to explain himself to Parliament, that's all. Do we understand each other correctly that this is in the bill? The Minister shall determine and the Minister may be asked to explain his reasons for the decision. C'est tout.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u289	Well, not "c'est tout." The conditions of the Minister's weight are set out in Article 52d. There will also be a ministerial arrangement. But, yes, in the end it is the administrative responsibility that the minister takes and on which he is accountable to parliament. In these situations, we think that an administrative role is better than turning it into a political issue, which you are asking for. If you want to keep up the time pressure, I say yes, it's a good approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u290	Then we have understood each other well. Parliament takes itself out and can only hear afterwards how the Minister has motivated his decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u291	No, Parliament is not taking itself out at all. The Minister takes his role and is accountable to the States-General, who still has many possibilities, if he wishes, to force the Minister to change his policy. The States-General itself can take far more far-reaching measures. This is, by the way, a very ordinary way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u292	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u293	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Minister on behalf of my group for his open, clear, clear, honest and occasionally passionate answer to the questions on this complex dossier. I quote him: 'this decision is inevitable and doing nothing is not an option for me'. We very much support that. I would also like to begin with Article 52d on the consideration of the various interests. We have heard the Minister clearly say that quantified weighting would be desirable, but that it is not possible and that administrative decision-making in this situation is therefore desirable. A few moments later, as Mr Pijlman said, he confirmed that the safety of the inhabitants is ahead, but that, to go to zero, a more risky situation is temporarily being accepted, which is being taken up vigorously through the reinforcement operation. And through evaluation and debate, a more sophisticated balancing framework will emerge over the years. We in the VVD Group are very much in favour of this. I think Mr Reuten is hearing very well what I am saying on this point. The same goes for my second point. We are not in favour of the operational strategy being submitted to the First and Second Chambers for prior approval. This is an administrative responsibility and an administrative balance. The Minister is then accountable to Parliament. We can agree with that. We are pleased to hear that the reinforcement operation with all kinds of performance targets will soon see the light of day. We also welcome the fact that real steps have been taken to bring about this horrific delay in the settlement of damages. That's what it's supposed to be. I heard the Minister say: 'The words of the Groningen have nothing anymore; we have to deliver, deliver, deliver'. These are the two possibilities on which that can happen. We are also interested in how the conversations with abroad are going. We had a brief discussion about this in an interruption. As far as our own country is concerned, I hope that you will be able to indicate in the second term, without us pining you on it, what your thoughts are on how you can exert pressure on, in particular, the large industrial consumers. For a liberal, this is not always a very pleasant course of action, but occasionally the desired goal justifies the slightly less liberal means. A three-year review: we do hope that we will be kept informed by the Minister at regular intervals of the progress made in this very broad framework of the legislative proposal, the new legislative proposals and everything that is attached to them. You cannot separate this bill from all other developments, because those too ultimately determine the success of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u294	I'd like to catch up with the VVD spokesperson. We do nothing in this house but deal with supposedly non-liberal legislative proposals. They are always intervention in what you call liberal society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u295	I would like to thank Mr Reuten for his training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u296	Mr President, I also had to think about what Mr Reuten meant. We in our group would like to thank the Minister for the way in which he speaks, argues, shows his commitment and makes it clear what he stands for. It's very clear and obvious. That's not what our discussion with you is about, Minister. The discussion we are having with you is whether you are not making yourself very vulnerable in the context of orderly legislation that should also have its legal effect and whether your successors, your legacy, will manage that in good order. Can the dowry you're putting on the table today be taken over? When Mr Reuten intervened, I was reminded of a comparison with a radical liberal predecessor you had. Perhaps the comparison with Willem Treub has been made before. Treub was alderman in Amsterdam in the eighties of the nineteenth century and then socialized the telephone company. The private company that built the first telephone network in Amsterdam was made by him municipal. That was the beginning of municipal socialism, in which the radical movement at that time played an important role in Amsterdam. That Mr. Treub became and remained very famous after that. He played an important role in the Cort van der Linden cabinet. That cabinet was based on God's peace and had to maintain the balance between the German side and the English-French side. You may know the Potato Rush of 1917 in Amsterdam. This was due to the fact that when the Dutch promised to deliver 160,000 tonnes of potatoes to Germany, the English also claimed that right. That was the cause of the Potato uproar, because there were no potatoes for the people of Amsterdam. I am saying this now because you are actually suggesting that you can act almost by decree, as was necessary in times of war and war. A decree makes you particularly vulnerable, because then you do not have the natural democratic legitimacy to talk to Parliament about your course. Treub had that in the eighties of the nineteenth century. The Amsterdam city council was very fond of him, but in the time of the Cort van der Linden cabinet it was mainly the prime minister who had to constantly balance between a number of ministers, including Treub, who argued a lot with each other. There's a nice book written about it. I'd like to give it to you sometime. Now I'm getting to my point tonight. We are disappointed by a number of discussions we have had with each other. They were about how you want to use the balancing framework and how you want to provide the justification and the justification for it. I called it vulnerable. In my position, I have been in a crisis organisation for the past two months, because this summer's drought required us to distribute water. That meant that at the level of cubic meters we calculated how much water each ditch could still get, because we depend on the Meuse. We have protocols for that, arguments, motivations and agreements. The displacement sequence is a very important driver. The displacement series has been recorded by the House of Representatives. If I have to refuse the first farmer to supply water, I don't have to explain the displacement sequence. This is immediately clear in a crisis organisation. If I still have to discuss priorities and considerations, it will become hopeless. That is the problem you are facing by not laying it down better in the law. That's our objection. That also applies to the question you have not actually answered in order to determine whether the new draft assent decision is legally sufficient. The Council of State destroyed the assent decision last time. That is why we have called for some delay to see whether the guarantee of the new draft assent decision by means of integrated legislation and referral to Parliament can be better justified. Perhaps, from a different perspective, it could lead to a tightening up, so a reduction in the amount of low-caloric gas, so that savings and rationing targets can be based on it. We do not see this in the way you are going to implement the balancing framework. This brings us to a motion, which I shall be presenting and which calls for the interests of the ministerial regime to be brought before Parliament, so that there can be coordination and commitment. The President shall: Mr Verheijen, Mr Reuten, Mr Nooren, Mr Binnema and Mr Postema proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed Article 52d (3) of the Mining Act refers to a ministerial regulation on the implementation of the safety standards of 10 and of the different categories of final customers (of gas);]] [[Whereas this ministerial arrangement may be important in terms of content for the framework conditions of the operational strategy to be adopted for the extraction of gas in the Groningen field (ex Article 52d), and thus for the safety interest;]] [[requests the Government to submit the said ministerial rules to both Chambers of the States-General before adopting them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u297	Thank you, Mr Verheijen. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u298	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. The fact that I did not find the answers satisfactory had nothing to do with his passion or style. This was mainly due to the comments he made with regard to the balancing framework. Because protocoled weighing models are huge-interesting, just like putting social life in a spreadsheet, but they also have a lot like an escape route. The operational strategy and the balancing framework are simply unclear. No one can tie a rope to that. The safety concerns include the safety risks to residents due to the soil movement caused by the extraction of gas and risks to the final customer as a result of the failure to supply the required amount of low-caloric gas. The proposal also states that, in general, the social interest must be taken into account in supplying the customers with the necessary gas. It's gonna be a really tough tour to weigh that down. In this context, my group considers it unacceptable that we should not make this clear to the representative of the people, especially since this is a new approach and we simply benefit from that clear balance. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Reuten's motions and Mr Verheij's motion. Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction must go down and eventually go all the way down to zero, but nowhere in this bill is that laid down, and the Minister has not made any commitments in this respect either. Again, this all sounds like an escape route, because what are the next Cabinets going to do? That's the question. Mr. Chairman. Nor am I very satisfied with the answer given by the Minister on climate change. Why is the Minister waiting for compelling measures when it will enable the gas tap to close faster? State supervision of the Mines also calls on the Minister to come forward with this in the short term, so that large consumers can move faster off the Groningen gas. By different laws, the Minister distinguishes between many different balancing frameworks and thus creates an alibi on every subject that is addressed, because gas extraction is about soil decline, earthquakes, economic interests and the climate. In a semantic puzzle ride, the Minister tries to shake off every critical questioner to offer himself a free retreat, a carte blanche that no Groninger is confident about. If we have to get rid of the gas, this also applies to large consumers, especially large consumers. I shall therefore table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Reuten, Mr Koffeman, Mr Binnema, Mr Nagel and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the natural gas tax can be used to encourage large consumers to move faster towards sustainable alternatives to natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u299	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his clear, but also personal defence of the bill. He started with a story about what went wrong in the past and was done wrong. That's a sad story. This means that we can be satisfied that at last something really seems to be being done. I believe that the legal framework presented to us for this can be effective, although I am impressed by the comments made by Mr Verheijen on the priority framework that should be used if action is to be taken. The satisfaction means that in this respect I think that appreciation should go to this minister, who has dared to show the strength that perhaps should have been shown years earlier. Still, there are uncertainties. The compensation and reinforcements must now really go ahead if the Minister is to really regain confidence in the region. And there remain great uncertainties as to the necessary amount of gas to be extracted, because how quickly do we get rid of that gas? It appears, according to the Minister's comments, that abroad is more conducive to accepting alternatives than our own companies. So it would indeed be a good idea for the Minister to take action. Those who want to recycle plastic bottles should also simply raise deposit money, so take measures. I'm afraid that's true here, too. The discussion with Mrs Teunissen on the tax instrument went a bit differently and was put in a different context. I must say that when it comes to measures, I certainly see the use of fiscal instruments as an opportunity which the Minister should not immediately blow away. That leaves two questions from my first term on which the Minister has not responded. I stated the following in the first period. If it comes to this, it may happen that there is no coverage from operators or underlying companies anymore, in my opinion the government, the State, is responsible because it has granted the authorisation and thus accepted the risks. Does the Minister agree? If so, does the same reasoning not apply to wind farms, in which the same risks of personal damage can occur? We're looking at that very limited at the moment. The government gives a permit for that. Of course, the operator is liable, but there is also a very high risk that there will be no operator at any given time. Then who's liable? The state, because of the permit? I would like to make that quite clear. In any event, in the case of mining, according to the Minister, the guarantee fund must pay the benefits. The State is liable, but the guarantee fund must provide the funds. How much guarantee do we have that the guarantee fund is sufficiently well-stocked? That's what I asked. I think it's worth reflecting on that for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u300	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u301	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for his clear answer. If we have understood him correctly, he has not directly embraced our suggestion of a natural gas tribunal with great enthusiasm. But what are the facts? In 1993, 25 years ago, it was clearly recognized by the government that there was a link between natural gas extraction and earthquakes. In 2013, the opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines was that 112 billion had to be brought annually to reduce risks. Mr Pijlman painted it very strikingly this afternoon in his speech. Two years ago, we couldn't make the cut. Then there was a government called "Rutte." The government back then said it's impossible. Mr Pijlman said it very neatly: that was not the truth; it was possible. This means that for many years people have taken risks, on the collapse of buildings and homes, on injuries caused by collapse, on the stress of young people. Over 100,000 homes have been damaged. Tens of thousands of people are under stress. Children are the victims, and must be comforted by the vague hope that they will have a great forgetfulness when they are young. If you did not call this criminal, you could clearly signal the deliberate endangerment of people and buildings here. Rutte II knew and was guilty. It's okay for a judge to judge. The minister is also a human being of flesh and blood. Let him show his feelings. How would the minister feel if he had to live under these threats all the time? How would the minister feel? We are genuinely curious about his reaction. This morning a letter came from the House of Representatives about an independent handling of the mining damage. We ask that it does not involve the intangible damage, because it will come next year. We remain of the opinion that matters should be assessed and dealt with in an independent manner. Because, according to the Minister, distrust of mining companies has increased, but suspicion of the government has also increased. Guilty should be prosecuted in the eyes of 50PLUS. In this respect, the news just came to us that it meant that a large oil slick in a canal at Farmsum was detected. It concerns natural gas condensate caused by contamination with a mixture of toxic and combustible substances. The state's attorney's office is conducting a criminal investigation. Our question is whether this is of a substantially different nature than the examples we mentioned earlier. We'd like to wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u302	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps in response to Mr Nagel, I took a look at what the word 'tribute' actually means. It has a lot of meanings, including a court of law. But one of the meanings is also the public assembly, the speaking there and the public treatment of state affairs. In that sense, we are already working on this from 2 p.m. this afternoon. But I think he meant another tribunal. I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Binnema on his maiden speech. I'm also looking forward to the exchange of views with him. I thank the Minister for his answers, which he has indeed given in a passionate way. Madam President. In fact, today's debate is mainly about the fragile balance that I mentioned at the beginning, between the importance of security and the social interest, including security of supply. I briefly frowned on my eyebrows when the Minister said at some point: then at some point you have a political or administrative weighting to make. There was actually a lot of talk about this operational strategy and so on. My thoughts, which I would like to advise the Minister to see if we can perhaps get a little further with that, are the following. If the operational strategy is assessed by the Chamber, that is the political weighting. If the Minister is in charge, that is his administrative role. Imagine staying in that administrative role at first, so we see the operational strategy and perhaps the ministerial arrangement as an administrative issue: the minister makes that decision. But then he'll bring that up to the Chamber. Then you could say that the first year of the operational strategy is the most unbound. Then check the room. She'll anticipate and respond to that, and maybe she'll give orders, or motions or whatever. The second year could be a little less unbound, I think. Then there will be control and such. So one could say that, if this is the way the Minister works, he is actually making the operational strategy more and more verifiable in advance and actually building it. Is it true that the Minister intended it this way, and even that way the basic path could be accelerated? If that were to happen, it could also strengthen the confidence of citizens, or the growth of confidence. Actually, those are my questions. Is this the route the Minister proposes? If that is the case, it would also mean that both motions tabled would have to be weighed in that way. Back to the drafting of this bill. If there was one moment when it became completely quiet in this room, then that was when the minister said that he looked through his pieces at the kitchen table and wondered: "Eric, do you still believe in this?" His answer was harsh: no. That came out of his toes. This has led to a review. And these days, Madam President, rethinking is very useful. I look forward to the Minister's response. As things stand at present, I will propose to my group that we vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u304	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u305	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Binnema on his maiden speech. It has not occurred before to my knowledge that they did so within one week of the swearing-in. And then it was on such a complex subject as this one. Chapeau! We thank the Minister for his clear and clear answer to our questions. I would like him to clarify one point. It's about the state's surveillance position. If I understand correctly, this supervision is in two situations. First, the State surveillance oversees the implementation of the operational strategy by the NAM. If the State surveillance finds that the NAM does not comply with that strategy, it can intervene. In my opinion, the NAM is also punishable if it deviates from the operational strategy. If I have understood correctly, State surveillance also holds the second form of supervision in general supervision of the security situation in Groningen. If the SodM finds that there are developments in this area that pose a serious threat to security, it will lead to an opinion to the Minister. It'll be published immediately. The Minister said: I will change my mind three times before I take that advice next to me. We therefore expect him to take this opinion as extremely important and, in principle, simply to act in accordance with that opinion and as soon as possible. I'd like to hear if we can get a good look at this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is something that has already been said, including by Mr Schalk. We saw in the debate tonight a minister who we know as a rational beta man, a man of figures. It has been repeated many times that he is well placed to engage in the debate with Mr Reuten. But we have also seen that it is a man who with passion defends a position and can make a choice. That moment at the kitchen table to which Mr Schalk referred remained on my retina as well, as an impressive moment, but also as a moment when the Minister made an administrative decision. That was an excellent administrative balance, without a figure on the basis of which it was based. In my view, this illustrates the fact that directors, ministers, sometimes also have to make such an assessment and be accountable to Parliament afterwards, and that they are also very capable of doing so. I agree with what colleagues have said earlier. The example we heard from the Minister gave me the confidence that he will do so in all honesty, critically and carefully when necessary, and will, of course, answer to it. Mr. Chairman. All this leads me to the conclusion that I will advise my group to vote in favour of the law on substantive grounds, but also because we want to send out the signal that the process that this minister has initiated must now continue. It must be pursued vigorously: the phasing-out of gas extraction, the reinforcement notice and the settlement of claims. I hope that this process will ultimately restore the confidence of the Groningen people in the government and in all those working on this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u306	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. I give the floor to Mr Binnema. You may now be interrupted, Mr. Binnema!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I'm prepared for that. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. Thank you also to my colleagues Ester, Schalk and Flierman for the nice words about my maiden speech. The chairman said it was a little fast. Other members liked the pace. So I'm going to experiment a little over the next few weeks with what the good speed of an argument is. In any case, I do not think that it is an end in itself to speaking time, so if I can finish earlier and get rid of the content, I am happy to do so. But we're gonna find out what's good or what's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u308	I'll keep you sharp. If you speak too soon, I will report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u309	That's a pitfall I know, so I'll take care of it. In fact, I would just like to mention a few things, because a lot of things have been dealt with extensively in the written preparation and in the debate. I don't need to go through all the points again. I don't think that's wise, either, given the time. But there are a few things that it is important to emphasise, including for the discussion on this bill that we as a group are going to have in the next week. The first concerns the criteria, the trade-offs, which have been found in Article 52d. The discussion has been a lot about that. Although it may sound a little unkind to the new chairman of the D66 group on the other side, the addition of paragraph 5 and the whole aspect of the major importance have added an additional complication, which may not make the consideration clearer and more substantive. I would like to say two things about this. Firstly, in view of the kind of criteria mentioned, I believe that you could, in part, quantify the extent of risks, the pace of phasing out and the pace of strengthening. There's another part of it that can't be. I say immediately that quantitatively is not necessarily better, or the only thing you should strive for, but that qualitative considerations can also be extremely good considerations, which can be followable and explainable. But I do think, also in view of the debate we have had on this subject, that all the arguments that have been made about the involvement of the two Chambers in the way in which that weighting is carried out and the way in which those criteria are viewed in relation to each other are important. We have supported a number of motions on this subject, but there may also be other possible forms, if the motions do not get a majority, in order to see how this instrument and the way in which the criteria are weighted can be refined in the near future and how experience can be learned. Then there is the second aspect. We heard that there is a considerable delay in the resolution of the damage. I heard the number of 16,000 homes, and at the same time they want them ready by the end of next year. A quick calculation shows that this is more than 300 per week. Also given the limited scope of a number of dossiers, which contained no more than a name and an address, our question was how real this ambition is to catch up with 16,000 homes in a year. The last point I wanted to draw attention to was made at the end of my speech. The Minister has only partially addressed this issue. We do a lot of ground at the same time. It is indeed a good thing that various knowledge institutes, including KNMI and TNO, have become involved in this and that they have shared the knowledge about earthquakes with each other. But the call was mainly to see what happens when a lot of these things happen at the same time in a fairly limited area. We have now looked very closely at the quake risks arising from gas extraction. I think that's where we learned our lessons. We have seen that setting the safety importance and the risks of the earthquake is, on the contrary, very essential for reducing risks. Would it be wise if we were to take similar risks on another route? So can the Minister look more specifically at the combination of all the different things that take place in the subsurface? Can he share his thoughts on this with our room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u310	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. No one has interrupted you, unfortunately. That's too bad. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly? I see you want ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u311	I reopen the debate on bill 34957, Amendment of the Gas Act and of the Mining Act on minimising gas extraction from the Groningen Field. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u312	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the various speakers for this debate. The most beautiful debates are always the debates in which you also shift your views a little bit, and that has happened in any case with regard to the refinement of the weighting. So I come from here more ideas about that weighting than how I went into the debate. I will reply to the various questions in the near future. I'm just going to walk by the various speakers. I have talked to Mr Reuten about the definitions. He doesn't think it's consistent, but I think we've had that debate. I don't see that inconsistency. An important point that he raises and has already been cut, is the unbounded competence. I understand that point. And it's not for nothing, because I added those criteria. I do not think that his input on this issue is in all respects appropriate to his point. He refers to a term of the Council of State, but that is a term used by the Council of State when the adjustment had not yet taken place. He is talking about a 'calculated safety standard', but he and I know that safety standards are not calculated: that is just a standard. And he's talking about "heavy earthquakes and deaths," but that's not really about the situation of a binding decision, it's about an emergency plan, it's about some kind of exit plan. I promised that before the end of this year. So I think things are getting mixed up there. I recognise that he feels differently about the unbounded competence, but I will come back to that later on by a number of other speakers. I would like to confirm to Mr Ester that an evaluation only makes sense if it is 'comprehensive and integral', if I may steal those words from him. And I would like to answer his point about the displacement rules, which he had borrowed from Mr Verheijen, if I come to my response to Mr Verheijen. I should also like to take this opportunity to take a look at Mr Verheij's speech. I very much agree with Mr Pijlman's view. He sees the weighting in the light of the phasing-out, and that's what it's meant to be. With regard to the nitrogen plant and the category of 'big projects by the Empire', he is right to ask: how do we keep an eye on the timely delivery? Well, we do that by getting reported annually by GTS what the basic path looks like. It takes into account the likelihood and the latest state of timing. We are therefore given the annual picture of what would logically fit into a basic path. Actually, it's the referee. That's what we need. It is also a good thing that this happens independently. With regard to the involvement of the region, the NCG organisation tells me that the available capacity in the construction sector may be a limiting factor, and that all contributions from the region are very welcome in this sense. Building The Netherlands also announces that the builders in the North are ready for the job. There is no specific policy for this, but that is very welcome. And there is one complication, namely that in some cases we can of course be kept to the right to tender. He knows that, but that could mean that other people win tenders too. And I would like to take his suggestion to heart, and I will also pass it on to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen, which is very much on the agenda for proper communication and expectation management about timing. In my upcoming contacts with the TCMG I will also pay attention to this point, otherwise you will again have people expecting things that have never been promised, but which have given that impression. And that leads to great dissatisfaction. I fully endorse all of Mrs Klip's calls. I think she's right to use very big words for damage. It's in the TCMG. Her qualifications are right; I can't say otherwise. It's important it goes faster. I believe that a very specific question has also been asked by another: when will we know whether we can come up with other measures for large consumers? The estimate is that we really need to assess this by the first quarter of next year at the latest. So we need to know whether the voluntary path is enough. I have some fears in that area, I say, but that's at the very latest when we need to know what's going on. I would like to thank Mr Verheijen very much for his very insightful but also very colourful speech. He drew parallels between the water world and the gas world, and I still want to draw a parallel. I would like to confirm that parallel in an unexpected way, but on a specific point. The question of which water takes precedence over which other water in a situation of a temporary nature, for example in the case of drought, is the most similar to what you do in a switch-off plan with gas. This is about whether you send the gas to a retirement home or to a non-critical industry, of which there are many others that work with other fuels, for example. Then everyone can see that there's a logical sequence. This is likely to be possible within the gas world in an emergency. I also feel challenged by Mr Verheijen, because I have promised a switch-off plan and I will try to maintain the parallels with the water world. If it is not a switch-off plan, but a extraction decision, which also includes very different forms of safety, which are not even related to gas supplies, similar to water supplies, but which are related to seismic risks and housing, I think it is more complex. I would like to challenge him to try it out from his water world vision on the risks that I have presented to him in this bill and in Article 52d. I think that together at the kitchen table we might be able to make a more productive exit plan, driven from his world, than we are preparing a mining decision. It would be a pity if that were the case, because I would like to get all the help, because I have to make that assessment later, again at the same table, but I think that the parallel in that respect is a little bit more economical than I would hope and then it seems to be sketching. But I see parallels and I will be inspired by them for the exit plan. Mrs Teunissen stressed once again that the balance was difficult. She says she would prefer to refer it to Parliament as well. I understand the call.. many have done so... but it doesn't make the weighing less difficult. I see her call for binding measures. I'll respond to the motions in a moment. I hear Mr Ten Hoeve saying that charges may be necessary. I'll be able to test his estimate for the first quarter. But then there's a very strict point, even though his logic is tempting. He says: once an operator, a mining company, no longer has cover from the operation, should it be the State on balance that pays for the damage? That's what I'm saying. No. We've taken care of it in public. We do this because we want to avoid situations of small versus large, powerful versus not powerful, a small consumer versus a large company. So we're going to set that up in Groningen, but that doesn't mean the State has to pay for it. In fact, I have spent so long on the agreement on the main lines of the agreement, it has been a few months of intensive negotiations to obtain infinite guarantees of damage and reinforcement from the underlying oil companies, from the NAM but also from the underlying shareholders, even after there may be no exploitation. In itself, that is also the port of the Mining Act, that you should clean up the mess and continue to do the damage. We have very explicitly secured this in this way. So, no, it can't be the state that takes the fall for that. It is the State that intervenes publicly to ensure that people can get their rights, but it will not be allowed to come out of the state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u313	I did not mean that the State should be financially responsible, but that the State should be responsible for dealing with such claims. In this case, the State does so because of the guarantee fund, but in doing so, the State is responsible for ensuring that the people who suffer damage come to their likings. That is why I linked the question about wind energy to it. I consider this to be a similar process with similar risks in the long run, but where the risk of no operator being present may be much greater. Is the damaged citizen completely defenceless there, or is the State ultimately responsible for ensuring that compensation comes from somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u314	I would not know what compensation is involved in a windmill that is no longer exploitable, but let me say quite honestly to Mr Ten Hoeve that I am no longer at my best after ten o'clock in the evening when I ask questions outside the order. No, I have to be honest with you. I'm gonna answer one of his questions. He asks how much is actually needed for that guarantee fund. This guarantee fund requires a further amount for other mining situations in the Netherlands, but zero for the Groningenveld. The damage within the Groningenveld will always be compensated by this company, by the NAM, with the underlying guarantee. So we don't need a guarantee fund for that. We have enough guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u315	Mr. Ten Hoeve, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u316	We have already discussed the damage that has occurred in Limburg with the previous Minister. There is no operator there, but there is a guarantee fund. So there is the question of whether the guarantee fund is sufficient to cover all the damage. If that is not the case, the question arises as to whether the State is still liable. Not directly in the financial sense, but responsible for proper handling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u317	What is on the rise is, of course, a greater role for the government in dealing with the damage caused by all mining activities in the Netherlands. There is a somewhat larger public role, but it is clearly designed in such a way that we can ultimately bring it back. That's why you're doing something with a trust. That fund still exists when the operation no longer exists. That's the idea. That responsibility, then, yes. Mr Ten Hoeve and I fully agree on the state treasury coverage. Mr Nagel asked a question in the first place, and I failed to answer it. I have to apologize for that. He's asking how this minister would feel. That is a question I answered in January. Then I said that in some cases I would behave even more angry than some Groningen people. That's pretty wide-ranging. That's what I said at the time, and I think I'd still be answering that right now. Then he asks why pollution is a criminal matter and not the extraction from the past in Groningen. That is quite simple: because pollution is prohibited and a democratically controlled administrative decision on extraction is not. That's not illegal. It's unwise at best, but it's not illegal. That's just not part of it. "Tribunaal" is still a very bad word. Mr Schalk has an observation which I think I fully share. He says that if it starts with a complete administrative balance as well as you can, but that is what it is then, of course, can be refined by discussion in Parliament. Assuming that the representatives of the people do what the people in the country think is reasonable, this will be an increasingly sophisticated consideration. In any case, I think we should also focus on that refinement. It must be a learning process. So my answer is yes. Yes, that also means that it can affect that basic path, because if it affects the operational strategy, it can also affect the numbers and thus the base path. So I agree. Then I think it is appropriate that I endorse Mr Flierman's assumption regarding the two supervisory situations of SodM, including that this is, of course, very important for every minister of EZK, starting with this one. I believe that Mr Binnema sets out how criteria can be quantified in part, but that qualitative criteria are also valid in themselves and in some cases, perhaps even a single case can work better; that could still be the case. I also reaffirm in his direction that I think it would be wise to focus on the refinement of this weighting. How real is the ambition of that independent committee for the damage in Groningen that the delays could be eliminated by the end of 2019? I'm telling you quite frankly, I don't have the opportunity to judge that yet. It's an independent committee's own estimate. It's not attuned to me either. Neither does the communication of that. You don't have to. Independent parties may have their own estimates and communicate on them. I will soon be updated on the possibilities of acceleration and may then be able to make a prediction of my own, but I will leave this on the behalf of the party that is independent in this and is responsible for it. The combination of the various underground risks must, of course, be taken into account in each extraction plan, but also at a higher level of abstraction, of course, that is a point where we can see further development. Especially since geothermal energy is becoming a fairly common new mining activity. It can interfere with other mining activities, as we have unfortunately seen for a short time recently. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u318	Mr President, I hope you will allow me to correct myself. A safety standard is a standard. The Minister is quite right about that. What I should have said is: the calculation of compliance with a safety standard or the degree of compliance with a safety standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u319	Yes, Mr Reuten must have meant that. I do not think that the final government position will change as a result of this input. He doesn't expect that either. We have had this discussion in detail. No one will say that it is a wrong subject of discussion. The point is legitimate. Since we've talked so much about it, the motions can go a little faster. The motion under letter I of Mr Reuten. He won't be surprised, but I advise against that definition of "social interest." The motion under letter J, I advise. This has already been mentioned in the speech and I have already explained it. Then the motion under letter K. I have made a commitment not to formally refer to the ministerial regulation, because that is something that must be enshrined in the law, but it must be put forward. So this motion I'm leaving to judge Chamber. I see the point. The motion under letter L calls on the government to consider how the natural gas tax can be used. It's done on its own. That's the PwC investigation. In fact, I have said that I want to look at the costs, where they are related to energy taxes and ODE and possibly CO taxes and so on, in order to ensure that there are the right incentives, but there is not a clear level playing field with carbon leakage. But this investigation has been done on its own, so I advise against this motion. Mr President, I am through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-7.u321	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the legislative proposal and on the motions tabled.
