ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on the General Political Reviews. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr President, thank you. I come to the following topic: society. Several topics are discussed. Firstly, there is the question of demographics and population growth. There were questions from the corner of VVD and CDA. The questions raised by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Buma are relevant. At the same time, they are comprehensive, because they are about birth and mortality, about migration balances, about the capacity of our economy and society, about the physical layout of our country, about building and living, about infrastructure and labour market and, yes, also about asylum and labour migration and the free movement of persons within the European Union. And they are of course about the meaning of diversity for our way of living together, for our education and for care. Mr. Chairman. We have good research institutions in the Netherlands. The essay mentioned by Mr Dijkhoff was written in the framework of the project on migration diversity of the Scientific Council for Government Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u3	I didn't intend to interrupt the Prime Minister so soon, but it's also about Islam. You now mention all sorts of things, like the fellow group chairmen who made the proposal the day before yesterday. But, yeah, it doesn't matter what the population composition looks like. The Prime Minister comes to his conclusion, but does he agree with me that Islam and Islamization are also a very important element if this were to be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u4	No, just as in the case of migration from Eastern Europe we do not look at the predominantly large number of Catholics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u5	It is incredibly inconceivable that we do not dare to name the big elephant in the room. Mr Dijkhoff had a big proposal yesterday for what some colleagues called postal code criminal law. He talked about everything but Islam. He didn't take that word in his mouth once. And now there is a proposal on a study of population development and no one is talking about Islam. But the problems in these neighbourhoods come nine times out of ten by people of Islamic origin. It makes a lot of difference in that demographic research whether people come from Islamic countries or not. The whole society changes when we do that. So, if you want that research, would you like to involve Islam separately, no matter how uncomfortable for some of us here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u6	No. Mr Wilders is beginning to look more and more like President Barack Obama. Yes, he had not seen it coming. At the beginning of his presidency, Obama made a speech in Cairo to "the Islamic world." I had a hard time with that, and I told him that later. I said, you're all speaking to people now on one aspect of their identity, their faith. But people have so many more identities. People are men or women, young or old, have certain hobbies, a certain profession, they have certain parents and traditions. There's so much more that ultimately determines who someone is. That is why we judge people in our rule of law on the person and on who they are. We don't look at their origins and we don't look at their beliefs. We don't look at the group they come from. We're not naive. In a number of cases, a refugee from Syria will have more difficulty integrating into this society than a worker from Poland, and that fact raises certain issues. That is a fact, and that is what you need to focus your policy on. But you're not going to look at one aspect of human identity. That was my objection to Barack Obama's speech in Cairo in 2008 and also my objection to Mr Wilders' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u7	We agree on Mr Obama. In the first chapter of a book I've written, I'm going to go into that speech exactly. It was indeed his first foreign speech, which he gave in Cairo. I called it an appeasement speech, a Chamberlain speech. But apart from that, it is of course extremely naive to think that it does not matter where immigrants come from. I told you, Africa goes from 1 billion to 2 billion people in 2050 and to 4 billion in 2100. The whole north and the central part of Africa are Islamic. Those people are coming this way. And it matters a lot, Mr. Rutte, whether the majority of those couple are 20 million inhabitants Islamic or not. That's a big deal. Our freedom is at stake. Are our girls immediately forced to veil down the street, get girls married off, can gays still hand in hand across the street, how do we deal with Christians and others? It matters whether the population is increasingly Islamic or not. So if you don't, if you deny it, if you don't dare name the big elephant in the room, it'll be an investigation of nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u8	The agreement between Mr Wilders and Mr Obama is in his mind that they are both talking about the Islamic world and Islam. That they choose different paths further in their more detailed coloring of these issues, may be clear. But I find it both uncomfortable. Look, what we need to do as a country is to be clear to people who come from outside in what kind of country they arrive. We are not going to see where they come from, we are going to see if they know where they come from and what our values are: equality between men and women, equality between homosexuals and heterosexuals, the separation of Church and State, freedom of religion in the Netherlands, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of the press. Do people understand what that means, that it does not indemnify people from criticizing, for example, their religion or important symbols they have, even from politicians who put their religion at the centre of their political perception? That is all part of our free society. This coalition believes that if people come here and are allowed to be here because they are genuine refugees or have come here for other reasons, we need to be much clearer in what our values are. This is how you fly it. What doesn't work is looking at people on an aspect of their identity and making inferences from there. I also see that there is another difference between a low-skilled migrant from Africa and someone from Eastern Europe. This will, of course, mean that you have different approaches to integration. But the basis, that you approach people as human beings and that you're clear about what our values and values are, that doesn't differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u9	Those values which the Prime Minister calls freedom, equality and opportunities are not valid in Islam. Islam is not only the most violent, but also the most discriminatory ideology or, if you will, religion that exists. For Islam says to anyone who is not Islamic or does not want to be part of it or wants to leave Islam: you are inferior, you do not have the same rights. That is why I said in my first term the day before yesterday: call me an Islamic country where democracy exists, where freedom exists, where a majority of a parliament can send home a prime minister with one voice, where journalists can write freely what they want, where gays can be free on the streets, where a church can be built and a religion can be confessed without fear of persecution or death. There is no such thing in any Islamic country. So you can't say you're not looking at that. Millions, hundreds of millions of people are coming to Europe later in this century. It doesn't matter where they come from. They're not from Sweden, they're from Islamic Africa. All those freedoms that you claim to defend, we will lose them if you do not take off your politically correct glasses and see what Islam stands for, namely freedomlessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u10	What Mr Wilders and I agree on is that if anyone uses their faith to justify behaviour contrary to our rule of law, we will act very hard against it. Then our law, the police and our whole rule of law will turn against such a person who says: from my faith I may do certain behavior, I may show certain behavior, because I believe it is necessary from my faith. If you do, the state will turn against you. What Mr Wilders is doing is not looking at the people and appealing to people for their behavior and making it clear what you have to do in the country where you have arrived. What Mr Wilders is doing is a religion in which many people are piously believers in and put away in this society very well. What the hell is that supposed to mean? What kind of land are you building? It focuses on how governments can cope with growing migration diversity in cities and regions. This will lead to a WRR report in 2019. About the physical domain was made this spring by the Central Planning Bureau and the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment, the so-called Future Explore Welvaart and Leefenvironment. It examines the effects on the living environment in two scenarios: high population growth accompanied by high economic growth versus low population growth accompanied by low economic growth. We can use these kinds of investigations to discuss politically the questions raised by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Buma. I would also like to say that the Cabinet is prepared to ask the Central Statistical Office, in cooperation with the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, to carry out a further study on demographic developments. The Minister for Social Affairs will send the Chamber a cabinet response to the said WRR report on migration diversity. The cabinet will inform the Chamber of the results and possible policy implications of the further CBS investigation. So we have a few pieces, there's going to be a cabinet juice valuation and we'll ask the CBS and the SCP to carry out a further study on demographic developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u11	I have one more question about that. It is important to use different scenarios and to look at the policies that go with them, because it matters if you have 18, 19 or 20 million inhabitants. If you find out at some point that a country can't carry it anymore, you also need to know what that means for immigration and other choices about population growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u12	We'll try to do that. I get that. The tricky thing is that if there are very small differences in the migration balance, then that is the difference between immigration and emigration, which over a longer period of time up to 2060 leads to huge differences in the size and composition of the population. I think you both raised that point in the first term. This means that policy choices are all the more relevant in this period, as Mr Buma's speech also underlines. So we will try to take these aspects into account. The good thing is that the WRR's report was already based on two scenarios. So let's take the SCP and the CBS and see how we do that. Perhaps I might suggest to the Minister for Social Affairs that he should just send a brief note to the Chamber about the precise research design so that there can be a discussion about it if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u13	In essence, the Prime Minister says that this does not lead to easy questions or answers, but I believe that we are faced with a number of serious uncertainties and that we really need to look at what choices should be made. I do not think it is such a point that this leads to complexity. It is complicated, but perhaps it gives us an insight into the policy options we have. That is why I say that we should not be too afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u14	No, no. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u15	In the interrupting debate with Mr Wilders, it was just about the Islam. Then you will have a discussion about this, about whether that is not too straightforward and so on, but I would regret it if it were to disappear from the picture that the distance that exists to our society in values and standards does indeed play a role in integrating what we can do. Is attention also being paid to this content? It is not just about dolls, but also about the integration challenge that may be associated with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u16	I do not know if that fits in with a demographic survey, but that is the policy of this government. The cabinet does this by being absolutely clear about what our values are. We are also aware of the following. If an economic migrant comes here from Africa, it has nothing to do here in principle. Get out of here. If a refugee from Africa comes here who may also be a refugee, we are going to do our best for integration. We all know that for a refugee from a more western-oriented country, call this a country that may speak English much faster than for a low-educated refugee from Syria. I just want to avoid putting one aspect of that person's identity at the centre, namely faith. I think there are so many more aspects that contribute to the complexity of the question of integration in one case and another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u17	The opposite is that we consider everything, but ignore one aspect, namely faith. This can be very important and very difficult for people, even in Dutch society. My appeal remains that these difficult aspects should not be obscured and that attention should also be paid to them in this exploration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u18	We do, but always departing from the person. And that's my point. I object to saying that you are a supporter of Islam, so it's not gonna work out here. I know so many people here, and we are all here who make an insane contribution to this country and are also pious Muslims. That's allowed in this country, isn't it? It would be crazy if we were there... But that is not what Mr Van der Staaij is suggesting. Mr. Chairman. The right to challenge came along. The government agreement states that the cabinet will allow for initiatives by citizens and associations in society, including through the right to challenge and the right to take over social property, the right to pray. This was announced in the letter Plan of Action to strengthen local democracy and governance, which Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, sent to the Chamber on 5 July. Initiatives are now being taken with municipalities. The aim is to increase the number of municipalities to 75 to 100, which doubles the number in this cabinet period. In this autumn, a comprehensive programme will be launched to inform municipalities about the possibilities of local initiatives. Also this year an initiative on the acquisition of social property with its function by neighborhood residents, such as a local swimming pool, a community center or a library. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's question about the accumulation of procedures and also the link with the cabinet's initiative to set up a committee to consider why it sometimes takes eight, nine years for someone to actually leave the country. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. We don't need a committee to shorten procedures. That's just totally true. It is important to prevent the accumulation of procedures by ensuring, for example, that the follow-up procedure is really short. The coalition agreement is clear on that. Mark Harbers, the Secretary of State for Immigration, is also working on this, for example by ensuring that follow-up applications can be rejected without success without hearing any more. The committee he's working on, and who's going to set up the cabinet, and he's going to work on it, he's going to come up with all the factors that make foreigners stay in the Netherlands after a rejection. So that goes far beyond the length of procedures. I think it is a good thing to look at that from some distance, while in the meantime he is simply continuing to implement the coalition agreement. But I agree with Mr Van der Staaij on this point. Mr Buma asked about the international framework on this point. Something has already been said about this in the coalition agreement. We are having an independent investigation into whether, and if so how, the Refugee Convention should be kept up-to-date in order to provide a sustainable legal framework for international asylum policy for the future. The Secretary of State is currently working on the formulation of the contract and the award of the contract. The committee he is working on is not primarily focused on the scope of international asylum protection, but on the aspects that Mr Buma also mentioned, such as the accumulation of procedures or the cooperation of countries of origin on return. I think we can agree that we should ask the committee to determine to what extent it also intends to examine the international legal framework, that we should leave it to that committee and that the Secretary of State should inform the Chamber. Then "roofing pans" How do I say that in good Dutch? I think that these two initiatives overlap or overlap in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u19	I come back to the point the Prime Minister mentioned about stacking procedures and why people don't go back. As far as I am concerned, you do not have to set up a committee for this, because we all know that. In fact, ten or fifteen years ago, even in the Wilders-Time, a motion was adopted in the House of Representatives that said: stop the procedure stacking. It's just that it's never been carried out. It was also part of the plans of your first cabinet, but that was not implemented either. What's the reason? The reason is that people who get a rejection argue other grounds. One time they're humanitarian, then they're medical reasons. Every time that clock starts ticking. And then they appeal, and then they go again, and if that's rejected, they go to ground number 18. We all know that. What you need to do is to make sure that people can appeal on one ground and that they go if that is rejected. It's as simple as that. We don't need a commission for that. Everyone already knows that. The Chamber has already voted for it once. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u20	I have just said to Mr van der Staaij that that committee is not going to work on this either, because the SGP rightly made the point that there is no need for a committee to shorten procedures. Mr Wilders echoed that now. I agree with him and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u21	Don't shorten it. Stack it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u22	... that's also in the coalition agreement. Mr Wilders left the previous coalition so quickly that we didn't even get a chance to implement it. But this cabinet is going to work on this. The coalition agreement is perfectly clear on this point. Mark Harbers is working on this, as I said, for example, by arranging for follow-up applications to be rejected without any chance of success without hearing. So that committee is not for that, I agree with Wilders and Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u23	But that's different. I'm not talking about shorter procedures, I'm talking about fewer procedures. It is not, therefore, a question of shortening procedures, which is, of course, highly desirable, but of ensuring that someone can only use them once more on one ground, and that it is then over. That was also the motion adopted ten years ago. Do you agree with me? Is that gonna be taken care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u24	What we are regulating is to see why procedures take so long and how it is possible that procedures are stacked. That maps out Harbers, and then we'll make choices about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u26	Madam President, I am simply asking a substantive and serious question. Then why do I keep getting that racket, and that joke in between? It's not hard to answer that, is it? This is, of course, a Chamber statement, in which it has been said: we must do so; not only shorter, but only one ground. And then he comes up with, "Harbers is gonna take a look at it." I ask you, are you going to do that? This is a statement from the Chamber, which has been there for a long time. And everyone in the Netherlands wants it: you get one chance, and then don't say that you want it for humanitarian reasons, or because you suddenly have a knee or because I know what other excuses. So, once, and then no more. I am simply asking: do you think that is an unreasonable proposal, or do you say that we are going to do so? That would matter so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr Wilders is now responding very well, but this was not my point at all. I just thought I was meeting him by saying that that committee is not necessary for that. There are statements in the Chamber, and there is also a government agreement in which very clear statements have been made on this point. That's what Mark Harbers is up to. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am sorry, but if you will allow me, I would also like to raise another point on asylum. Those are the.. what is it? 70,000 Syrians currently in the Netherlands. They actually came to the Netherlands from the year 2013 and 2014, with a peak in 2015. These people will receive a permanent residence permit after five years, according to current rules. This means that if we do not do something soon, from this year on or at least from next year on, the first people will be granted a permanent residence permit, in the long term 70,000, and those people will not be able to get away. Now we see that parts of Syria are safe. You can see that even now people are voluntarily returning from refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon, not forced but voluntary, because they see that parts of Syria are safe not all of Syria but parts of Syria. So I ask the Prime Minister what is possible before we have 70,000 people here right away who will be granted a permanent residence permit as of next year and which we will never be able to get away, even though there are already voluntary returns because parts of Syria are safe. Are you prepared to see which Syrians can return from tomorrow to make sure that we do not get them out of our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u30	First of all, we always work on the basis of the insights that Foreign Affairs shares with us; where is it safe, where is it not safe? That is not a political decision, it must always be done on the basis of the bare facts. Two: Mr Wilders is now making a very big point of Syrian refugees. He opposed the agreements with Turkey to ensure that Syrian refugees in Turkey could be received. Even the SP now supports such an approach. Where is Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u31	The Prime Minister is clearly in trouble if he cannot even answer the question and then comes back with it. I'm just standing here. I am chairman of an opposition group here. This is the most important debate of the year. I just want an answer to my question. Every time he comes up with jokes and questions again. I have a very simple question. Now I can start repeating it all, but the bottom line is that there are 70,000 Syrians in the Netherlands, who will receive a permanent residence permit from next year, and the following year and the following year again, and that we will never get them out again. Parts of Syria are safe; so safe that Syrians from neighbouring countries already voluntarily return. And so we are not even talking about the Islamic holidays, for which they went back there voluntarily. So my question to you is: are you willing to make sure that those people can go back to safe parts of Syria and start now? And then don't come with a you-bake, just answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u32	I have just given that answer: that it is not the politics that decides that, but that we do so on the basis of objective facts. You can't decide as a chamber where it's safe or not safe. That's not right. Neither does the system, nor does international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. I'm really sorry, but this isn't... The Syrians are going back voluntarily. They go back voluntarily, without any government saying so, from the neighbouring countries of Syria. Now the Prime Minister says: it's not up to us. If people go back voluntarily, I suppose you can send them back, too? Because parts of Syria are safe. The decision of these ministerial reports on these countries is a decision of the Cabinet, and the decision to do so is taken jointly by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. So I think that's what you should do. If you don't, we'll be sitting here with 70,000 Syrians while their country is safe again, and we'll never get them back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u34	I repeat the answer I just gave. It is not the case that we can take a political decision here in the Chamber. There is a system for that objectively determines where it could not or could not. That is not something we are going to decide here in politics. Then we could also consider other arguments, which would not be right. UNHCR plays a role in this and many other things play a role. We have a good system for that. The question is whether we should think that when it comes to children, their rights should prevail and their interests should be paramount. First of all, let me say that for everyone here and also for the cabinet, the importance of the child is of course great and that this is kept in mind in foreign legal proceedings. We consider the importance of the child to an important extent. But this is important: it must not be an exclusive interest. It does not follow from the text of Article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the ICRC, that this interest is the only interest, but one of the interests to be considered. Then the SGP asked a question about admission policy. In fact, I have just responded to that in the course of the interruption. Mr Segers has put forward the position of refugees on Lesbos. But he's not hearing this, so I'm gonna move on to the next question. I'll get back to you on that. Yeah, well, he'll hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u35	Yeah, he'll hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Segers asked the question about Lesbos. Humanitarian conditions are not always good. The request is to include this on the agenda of the migration summit. I did that again. So yesterday I again told my Greek colleague that I am very concerned, and that there is also widespread concern in Dutch politics, about the situation on the Greek islands. Once again, I offered all the help, also in line with the request made by the Chamber for the debate last week in preparation for the European Council. Mr Voordewind spoke there. Not much to come back to. We keep pushing it, but we can't force it. Greece is sovereign, but the situation there is, of course, extremely worrying. The European Commission monitors this, as well as the European Asylum Support Office, Member States, UNHCR and NGOs. We also keep in touch with the Greek authorities along these kinds of roads. That is what Mark Harbers is doing with his colleague and I did it again yesterday at the informal summit in Salzburg. I am also honest in saying that we can offer help, people and so on until we find a way to alleviate the terrible, poignant situation on those islands and ensure that asylum procedures are speeded up, so that people also go back to Turkey under the Turkey agreement, but so far it has been with very limited results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u37	The fact that these refugees are there is one thing. The way they sit there is a second. We can help with that. Now it is often the case that they live in tents and all kinds of degrading conditions. That offer is indeed important. The second is that a commitment has already been made to transfer the 2,000 most vulnerable to other Greek islands from the Moria camp on Lesbos, where it is most poignant. This is a previous commitment that has still not been fulfilled. It would be very good to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u38	Good. I'm gonna check on that last one. My first feeling would be that moving people from an island to the mainland would be contrary to the Turkey agreement, but I would like to check that out. I don't know about that. On Mr Segers' first point: yes. My offer also mainly touched on that aspect. How can we help to normalise the situation on the islands? Where it is said that there is also a need for legal capacity, we cannot, of course, take the decision on asylum for the Greek Government. But you can help in the whole structure of the legal decision-making process. That's what we're available for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u39	I also call these living conditions in view of yet another approaching winter; yet another. So it would really matter if conditions got better. The second is: the promise saw on the transfer to other Greek islands and not to the mainland, because Lesbos is so heavily burdened and the conditions in the camp Moria are so miserable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u40	That's what we're gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u41	That's an earlier commitment. It would help to keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u42	That's what we're gonna find out. I will come back to that in the second term. I also see from the Secretary of State that we both do not have exactly what that commitment is, but we are looking into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u43	I take it the Prime Minister is ready for the chapter on asylum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u44	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u45	How long have you been there... Do you have a few questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u46	No, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u47	I may be more interested in integration now. But there are only a few more questions. Let me finish them off. I still have Mr Dijkhoff's question. He asked the cabinet to be ambitious in integration. I can tell him that we are very ambitious and very motivated in the field of integration. It is not for nothing that a whole new integration policy has been presented, with a lot of measures. That is, of course, part of the coalition agreement. We're gonna take the whole integration system on the shovel. We look at individual agreements with municipalities. We're looking at a higher language requirement. Failure to comply with requirements may result in fines or no permanent authorisation. There's gonna be extra money for pre-school education. Anyway, the whole package from the coalition agreement. In this context, Mr Dijkhoff said that further measures could be taken. Let me say first of all that the cabinet is now implementing the current policy. Of course, that can always be changed if all coalition parties so wish. I think that is also what Mr Dijkhoff said about the interruption he was getting on his proposals. I do not think that Mr Dijkhoff is asking for a policy change either, but he is asking to look at the degree of comparability and adaptability of the measures recently taken in Denmark and the situation in our country, in order to achieve a more territorial approach. That's what I heard. He asked to look at the criteria used by them to identify where the challenges are most persistent and to weigh measures in the areas of security, language disadvantages, work, education and the position of girls and women. He was also talking about upliftment. That's the second VVD to use this word. The first was myself, when drawing up the declaration of principle. I was showered with fury. But I found, and I say to the Social Democrats in this House, that the word 'upliftment' belongs to the liberals as well as to the Social Democrats. He also asked us to indicate whether there are more effective alternative means for our situation to achieve the desired goals. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is whether I can take the safety aspect in such a way that it is mainly about looking at what works best in our situation and less at what code of conduct it is about. That would also help me in the further reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr Dijkhoff received a question. Maybe he can answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u49	Then I'm going to see Mr. Buma. Actually, it was there earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u50	Fine, but I think it would be best if Mr Dijkhoff answered the Prime Minister's question, because that is relevant to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u51	The rest of you agree, I see. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u52	I can live with the Prime Minister's interpretation. I also asked this week to look at these proposals. See if they fit in with us. If there are better alternatives, I'm open to that. We have a lot of smart people working in the ministries. I myself once thought that it was criminal law in an initiative law on neighborhood nuisance, but I ended up in administrative law. So I can imagine anything. In the end, I am concerned with achieving the objective of security in those areas and reducing crime. As far as the route and the means are concerned, I have my thoughts on that, but that is the second order of business for me. That's not dominant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u53	So that could also be administrative law. It doesn't all have to be criminal. If I may take it that way, the Cabinet is willing to look into it. But then I don't just want to look at Denmark. I would therefore like to see what we can learn from countries facing similar integration challenges. Think of Germany, Belgium and Denmark. Let's see what they do. What's effective? How does that fit in the state of the law? To what extent do these measures fit within the instruments that we already know here? I think we could do something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u54	The more knowledge, the more insights, and the better we can shape our policies. I appreciate it. I thank the Prime Minister for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u55	I would like to hear the Prime Minister a little more specific about criminal law or administrative law. It's not like it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I hope, however, that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, will be able to say that we will not have a criminal law in which, as I said yesterday, the recruitment of a child in Amstelveen is less punished than the recruitment of a child in Amsterdam-West, because Amstelveen is not a problem area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u56	As Mr Dijkhoff said, this is not what the cabinet is going to propose. Mr Buma is right to say that this will also be complicated in criminal matters. I think it would also be better to strengthen integration policy in administrative terms. This is how the Netherlands has always flown. Mr Buma is quite right to mention a number of aspects of the debate he had on Wednesday, which will, of course, be difficult to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u57	I think that's important. In any event, the cabinet will not change criminal law. I'm wondering about administrative law. It is possible, but at the same time we have to acknowledge that we have really looked up all the corners and holes in administrative law in recent times. So I'm also curious what the thought is about what else is possible. I would like more powers to search preventively and so on, but what is the Prime Minister thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u58	In any case, it must all be possible to rule the law. The rule of law is therefore the most important objective. I believe that this also connects the four coalition parties and by far the majority of the parties in this Chamber. If you do such a study on how, for example, the Germans, the Belgians and the Danes do this, then you have to consider how that relates to the rule of law. I do not think this is a question of measures. Mr Dijkhoff said the same thing. The question here is: what does it work? Whether it concerns residents of vulnerable neighbourhoods or other integration issues, the question is: how can you ensure that people can participate and have a chance in this society as well as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u59	In itself, I think it's okay to do the research. I dare say that in our coalition agreement we have already covered quite a lot of research with the idea that we did a lot. So I'm very curious what else could happen. I'd like to take a look at that. And I wonder what we'll come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u60	In any case, I am pleased to hear from the cabinet that there will be no new proposals. The day before yesterday, I heard something quite different from what the Prime Minister said today. But here's what's important. Can the Minister indicate what the area-based approach he is talking about is based on? Because when I listen to Mr Dijkhoff, he talks about the percentage of people with a non-Western background and so on. I can give an example from Amsterdam. In Amsterdam Centrum, the number of minor crime offences is much higher than in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. Are we going to talk about indicators like that? Or are we gonna watch population-oriented, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u61	We're implementing the coalition agreement. Mr Dijkhoff also said that some of his proposals could ignore the coalition agreement, or in fact they were not even proposals. But some of the cases he had studied in Denmark are ignoring the coalition agreement. Moreover, they are much more criminal than administrative. I have just said: for me, the coalition agreement is leading. Only if the four coalition parties agree, can we do additional things. I note that we have an administrative tradition. Let's get it out of there. And it can never hurt to look at countries around us that have similar challenges, so that we can learn from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u62	Obviously it is always good to learn from other countries around us and to see what is going well there. We can indeed take that over. But as far as the area-based approach is concerned, I really want to know from the Prime Minister whether he is going to include an indicator of the population composition of a district. So, as Mr Dijkhoff suggested, are we going to take the percentage of people with a non-Western migration background or not? And if the Prime Minister says we're not gonna do that because that's not cabinet policy, then I'm okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u63	We carry out government policy. I have not made a commitment on an area-based approach. I made a promise that we will implement the coalition agreement. That is what connects the four parties that form this cabinet and this coalition. In addition, there is a demand to see what can be learned from the surrounding countries in terms of integration: successes and failures. What can you learn from that? And we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u64	I am very pleased with the commitment that such an investigation does not mean that we are going to identify neighbourhoods on composition, focusing on something in criminal law. I am very pleased that the cabinet says: we are doing a huge amount of prevention and opportunities within the lines of the coalition agreement, and this is also being involved. For me too, these are the frameworks after Wednesday's debate. Let's be honest about that: I'll keep an eye on that. But I'm also thinking about opportunities. Of course, for decades we have had a tradition of social renewal, major cities policy and bird areas. It was given a new name each time, but it was mainly intended to work together within the government and with the municipalities. In this research I would also like to see the impact of decades of this kind of policy and whether it might be interesting in the future to further support certain neighbourhoods in addition to what the cabinet is already doing about opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u65	The commitment was very special: a broader study of best practices in countries facing similar integration issues. So this is not so much about the Netherlands as about some of our neighbouring countries. I hear your question. Then let me see if we can do something with that in any other way. I see the Home Secretary gently nodding yes. We're gonna find a way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u66	I also want to prevent the first research from becoming an integration issue. There may be several cases that lead to differences in a neighborhood. Of course, let's not run away from it. I'm cavalier in'say that it often has to do with the composition of a neighborhood, for example, when there are affordable houses there. When you arrive in the Netherlands and you start on your ladder, you often start in a neighborhood with affordable homes. But I do not want this research to get the impression that it is an integration problem. That's why I'm looking for the width. If you say that the Minister of the Interior can also take a good look at what we have learned from what I call the big city policy.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u67	That's very interesting. Of course, there are also Dutch neighbourhoods where there are lower incomes, but where the percentage of people with a non-Western background is very low. By the way, they are often Dutch from the third or fourth generation, but let's say: people whose grandparents came back from other countries. Those neighborhoods are also there. This is unrelated to my commitment to Dijkhoff, but the Minister of the Interior can see if there is any way to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u68	I would like to support Mr Pechtold's questions. We have had a hearty discussion here: can there be criminal law that differs between the neighborhood and the other? For Mr Dijkhoff, that was a discussion about a means. The aim was: can we elevate areas and areas suffering from great backwardness and a degree of lack of freedom? Those were his words. Can we offer perspective there? I'd like that. That is indeed the right thing to do with the commitment to Mr Pechtold: can we move towards an area-based approach that is much wider than just criminal law? The latter was already off the table, but I'm talking about living and education. Yesterday, Mr Dijkhoff mentioned on television that we should also go behind the front door or at least ring the bell. I felt here the day before yesterday the liberal, while there was a non-liberal. Behind the front door; there have been times when the VVD blamed the Christian Union for everything we would all want behind the front door. But all of that aside. We also have another wonderful initiative: social service. I'd like to involve them. In an earlier debate with the Foreign Minister, we discussed integration, the Benoordenhout and the Schilderswijk. There are big differences there. How can you connect that? There are already initiatives. Social service is such a wonderful initiative. Can social service be added as a means to the research that has been promised to Mr Pechtold? How can we give areas new opportunities, but also connect them with other areas in cities such as The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u69	This does not change my commitment to Dijkhoff, but this fits in with Pechtold's request to the Minister of the Interior. Partly overlaps that, of course. Someone in trade-k says, "Paul Blokhuis." Of course, this is really Paul Blokhuis. Since we're talking about social service, it might be good to say something about that right away. In the first term of the Chamber, questions were asked about this by Mr Segers of the Christian Union and the CDA. Perhaps I can answer that the cabinet believes that this is very valuable, for example in the care sector, in sports associations and in the defence sector. Maybe it's good to name one more time that we invest in talents in this way. I see Mr Buma enjoying how I am defending this now! I have indeed become convinced of the usefulness of this, regardless of the fact that we have agreed to it. I can really bring this up with conviction. The purpose of this social service is to make society stronger. We invest in the talents of young people who voluntarily do something for others. 41 social-service experiments were launched on 17 September last. At the end of August, a second call was opened, an addition to the first. In the short term, such a thing also opens up to municipalities, a kind of third series. This means that young people can gain knowledge and experience in practice. Meetings are also encouraged, for example between young people and the elderly and meetings with people who would not normally be met on a daily basis. We will send the first results of the accompanying research to the Chamber in early 2019. Young people, civil society organisations and municipalities are closely involved in drawing up the evaluation criteria for the projects. The flow to a fixed job is not explicitly mentioned as an assessment criterion. That was a question from Mr Buma, I believe. In the first series, however, six projects were launched with the aim of taking vulnerable young people a step further towards the labour market. Through the accompanying research started now, we measure to what extent this can be achieved. That is why we would like to agree to involve the CDA's request in that investigation and in the decision on the final roll-out of social service, after the projects have been completed. We also want to agree that we take that aspect of the flow to a fixed job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u70	Thank you for that. Thank you for the commitment on that last point. I understand the Prime Minister was looking at the Home Secretary, because it's also about living. Living is a very important aspect in making neighborhoods more diverse and ensuring that rich and poor, the more earner and the less earner, live side by side and live with each other. So I understand that the Prime Minister is looking at the Minister of the Interior, but education, social services and security are also included. That's a lot of things. It will therefore require a broader approach to really offer opportunities again and indeed to raise these neighbourhoods. This may be the bridge to the next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u71	My confusion is, of course, that Blokhuis is there for social service and the Minister of the Interior for neighbourhoods and living, so this is going to be a co-production.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u72	What a charade! What a failure! What's this? On Wednesday morning, we will not be making a plea in the newspaper for a broad benchmark within the framework of the government agreement to look at best practices in Denmark and a number of other European countries, so that we can look at what can be better broadly integrated administratively. We didn't read that. This is the unbearable lightness of a test balloon by Klaas Dijkhoff. If you pierce this like that... Really, save us the trouble. Dijkhoff said: "We must not be cynical, because otherwise no blow happened at the end of the day." You just heard, there's no blow. One thing. The next time a liberal starts talking about upliftment, he brings in extra police officers, extra youth care, extra childcare. This is the kind of talk I call gratuitous. Upliftment? Then you have to do something. Don't leave test balloons!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u73	That's what we do as a cabinet. We are investing in the many things that Mr Asscher rightly mentions. They're also part of upliftment. I believe that what Mr Dijkhoff and other coalition members intended in that debate was to focus on how we can ensure that we in this country not only say that everyone can come to the start, but also that everyone actually gets the chance to appear at the start of this society and that we can mitigate factors that, for example, counteract that in a neighbourhood. I think that is a relevant discussion. I am a little surprised that Mr Asscher is so derogatory about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr Asscher is still trying to make a point of it, and he is addressing me personally. I think it's a shame he considers it that way. In this week's interrupting debate, he was a lot more constructive. We have also discussed in detail with Mr Asscher all the other elements I mentioned. He has also heard me here in this Chamber asking the questions I put to the cabinet. They were along this line. I am therefore very sorry that Mr Asscher, when it comes to upliftment, raises his own voice and leaves the opportunity to work constructively together to do something for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u75	Then I come to the proposal of Geert Wilders or the PVV. He comes up with a bill, with Dutch legislation banning Sharia expressions. You know the procedure: that law must be passed, and the cabinet will also take a position on it after the Chamber has exchanged views with the initiator on that proposal. But Mr Wilders has given quite a lot of insight into that bill and that goes so far against why I want to be Prime Minister of this country, why this cabinet is there and why this coalition is there, that I do not wait for that moment and share with him that this cabinet is in direct opposition to the vision expressed by Mr Wilders here. We do not exclude population groups. We're not looking at your lineage, we're looking at your future. We're not looking at your faith. We're looking at your behavior. We're not looking at the group, we're looking at the person. What Mr Wilders is doing is exactly the opposite. Moreover, although it is more of a formal legal but very relevant fact, many of these articles are contrary to the Constitution: freedom of religion, Article 6; freedom of expression, Article 7; the right of association, Article 8; the right to education, Article 23; the prohibition of discrimination, rightly Article 1. And it is also contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and many treaty rights aimed at equal treatment of citizens, without distinction between origin and belief. These are fundamental principles for our society. So we are not looking forward to this proposal. Then the question has been asked by Mr Buma about the doubling of the penalty rate for hate-dogs. This is included in the legislative proposal for a re-evaluation of current criminal offences. That bill is currently pending before the Council of State and the aim is to present the bill to the Chamber this autumn. Mr Buma also asked about the approach and transparency of money flows to non-free countries. The bill on this issue is currently being prepared for consultation. We have also announced before the summer that the Cabinet is also currently carrying out various explorations in the context of countering unwanted foreign funding, which can contribute to problematic behaviour. The Chamber will be informed of this by October at the latest. Then there was the question about the Remkes Committee. At the end of this year, my answer to Mr Pechtold is expected to come up with his final report and you can expect a response from the cabinet with speed and care. Finally, on the subject of society, I would like to make one final point. I see Mr Pechtold going to the interrupting microphone and I always think about our drug policy, because he is very attached to the Dutch experiment with pot growing and I want to get to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u76	I just have a brief question about that reaction that Mr Remkes comes up with, because it is of course very good that the committee comes up with it. Of course, it's gonna take a while. It is not the first committee to look into this. So my question was more whether the cabinet is also prepared and therefore not only reacts to what Remkes comes up with, but also develops ideas itself and is in the starting blocks when that advice comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u77	We always try to be fit fighters at this kind of relevant committee, so that we do not have to get out of the ropes at that time. Can I put it that way? Yes, I see the Home Secretary nodding. Finally, Mr Van der Staaij's question about whether the unhealthiest compromise is not the drug deal, as he said, the experiment with pot growing. The facts are that with this experiment with a closed coffee shop chain in ten municipalities we want to investigate whether a closed chain is possible and what the effects are in the areas of public health, crime, security and nuisance. It's an experiment. Afterwards, if the effects are clear, the cabinet decides what to do. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. Prevention of problematic cannabis use will be part of the experiment and in the municipalities where the experiment does not take place, the current policy remains in place. Hard drugs also remain illegal. In addressing the hard drug industry, we are going to make a stronger commitment, by detecting and prosecuting organised drug production and trafficking and, above all, by focusing on a strengthened approach to undermining crime. There is also funding for this, 5 million in 2018, rising to 10 million in 2019, and also a one-time boost of 100 million in the form of an undermining fund. These resources are used directly in the regions, and this is necessary, because the sense of urgency to tackle this problem lives with all government partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u78	On the subject of undermining, I can remember another election debate in Brabant where we were pushed with our noses on the facts and also on the widespread nuisance, the illegal dumping of all possible chemical crap. Now you see that this is a big problem in Brabant and the southern provinces, but that the accounts sometimes want to take place in Amsterdam. Can I assume that countering that undermining has such a breadth that a municipality like Amsterdam will also be much safer in that area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u79	Sure, other municipalities, too. I understand the concern. It concerns not only the areas where it happens directly, but it also has a huge impact on other places, including the capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u80	Recently, there was a report on ecstasy and amphetamines showing that the Netherlands is at the top of the wrong list. An analysis of the Police Academy was that the Netherlands will only move if France, Sweden or other countries really insist on it. Then it goes down again. How is it that there is so little urgency on the subject of combating all this drug abuse? Is it really different under this cabinet now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u81	There is an enormous urgency, especially in this cabinet. I was on a working visit in Brabant a few months ago in the police region that deals with Breda and surrounding municipalities. There is a tremendous amount of work being done on this issue. There are people in the Netherlands who, at some point, come to the question: do I remain among the people who are good or are the rule of law so far away from me and feel so threatened that I have to choose the wrong club. What connects us here, I think, is that we want that choice to fall in the right direction. That means we have to do everything we can. This is also a response to Mr Pechtold's previous question as to why the cabinet is using all these elements. It does that because it is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u82	That is good to hear, but it must also prove that it is being maintained now. A low penalty rate and a low chance of getting caught are important reasons why it often goes wrong again, but also an over-tolerant attitude towards drugs in general. Aren't these new experiments exactly the wrong signal? Doesn't that make you feel like it's all that bad with the drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u83	On the previous point, I should like to mention the following. Sometimes things fall in, but it could also be a ticket from the Minister of Justice and Security. The police academy's report commends the cabinet on this point. We want to shape the experiments with the closed coffee shop chain in this way, and we also want to do so that it does not lead to the effect that Mr Van der Staaij fears. We can also do that because they are experiments that have been designed very precisely. There are also control municipalities. We want to know what the effects are on international crime and drug exports, a wrong kind of export. All these aspects have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u84	Finally. Is the experiment really going to make any sense? If we have done so in a number of municipalities, do we know that crime is becoming less or more? Isn't it a bit of a wash nose? It doesn't work at all if you want to find out that way, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u85	That will have to be demonstrated by the experiments. Those who advise us on this, say that it is possible if you shape them in the right way and we do so now. There are a lot of different views about it, including in this coalition. There are parties who say we should ban it altogether. There are parties who say we should release it. There are also parties who say that the existing situation is perhaps best overall. That situation is really weird, too. You can buy the mess, but you can't deliver. So the leprechauns deliver it to the back door. The existing drug policy is also unlikely to be sustainable. At the same time, it has led us to at least distinguish between selling and trading in that type of drugs and hard drugs. The number of young people switching from that mess to the real mess, the hard drugs, is limited. Of course, you're trying to keep this from getting too mixed up again. That's how these experiments are designed. I come to the climate, the next topic,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr Wilders has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u87	I have a few more questions. The Prime Minister just said in reply to a question I asked: if something is wrong, we act. When it comes to Islamization, I have the following questions to ask him. What did you do when it turned out that the El Tawheed Mosque in Amsterdam hosted ISIS-goers? What did you do when it turned out that Al Fourqaan Mosque in Eindhoven supported Al-Shabaab as a terrorist organisation? What did you do with what was in the paper recently? A doctoral thesis showed that in a mosque it was said that throwing roofs of people who commit adultery deserves imitation in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u88	I can never go into an individual case here. That simply cannot be done. That's a matter for the police, the state's attorney's office and the county. We often have a role in this, sometimes not, but I cannot deal with a specific case in a plenary debate on television. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u89	No, I can't, but I could mention about 50 more from last year. Each time, the Prime Minister will not answer for the simple reason that nothing has ever been done. Nothing happened at all. So it's talk: "We don't have problems with Islam, Mr. Wilders, but if there's something wrong, we perform." The conclusion is that the government is not you alone, admitting never occurs. She's making it all happen. And what are we supposed to believe of your words when you say that you act, but then do nothing? If it is said in mosques that adulterers are being thrown from rooftops, that ISIS is being supported: isn't that a matter for you? You don't want ISIS to be supported, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u90	Once again, what Mr Wilders is doing is treating Islam in full width again. If he means to say that this is impossible and totally unacceptable in this country, we all think so! If people use their faith to engage in terrorist activities or enable state-undermining activities, the government will turn against them. But I cannot go into concrete cases here in a plenary debate. That simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u91	The government doesn't turn on you, the government doesn't. Because what have you done yourself, your Foreign Minister and his predecessors? You supported terrorists in Syria. You yourself supported terrorists and terrorist groups in Syria. Can you explain again why you did that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u92	The Minister for Foreign Affairs received 382 parliamentary questions on this subject. It was about the broadcast of Newsuur about non-lethal aid. Those questions will now be answered and next week everything will come to you. There is no doubt that a debate will follow. I'm not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u93	I have not received an answer to one question in these general considerations. He didn't answer anything. In the meantime, we read in De Volkskrant this morning that three days ago, on Prinsjesdag, several attendees in the Ridderzaal witnessed an outburst of Minister Blok. I'm simply quoting the newspaper "CDA-Kamerlid Martijn van Helvert": "Would you like to have a few VVDs ask some critical questions to CDA ministers? bit the Minister Van Helvert. VVD-Kamerlid Bente Becker had to intervene to ease the argument. Not here! People are listening to it." That's what we need to read. So it's all being argued about within the coalition, there's just tension being built up by the minister who says to the CDA: if you dare, we'll take you back as a VVDer. And I can't hear anything? I'm not hearing anything. You say to me, "We don't?" In the newspaper arguing with each other until the Knight's Room, just before the King enters, and when I ask why you didn't do anything in mosques and why you supported terrorist organisations in Syria, you say you didn't answer. Then get out of here! Then leave if you don't want to answer! This is a debate to answer questions from the Chamber. I've done it 100 times now, and I haven't gotten an answer 100 times. It can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u94	I answered both questions. On the question of mosques, I told Mr Wilders that he would find me opposite when he addressed Islam in general. If he thinks that faith should never be used as an argument to engage in terrorist activities or other things that undermine our society, he will find me on his side. But he then asks about a number of very concrete cases. I cannot go into that in a public debate. In addition, on that specific point of non-lethal aid for Syria, I inform him that 382 questions have been asked, that a letter has been sent this week by the Foreign Minister, that the questions will be answered and that a debate will follow. I don't think it makes any sense for me to go into that separately now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u95	I am the group chairman and I am asking a question here. Then I don't want to get the answer that 382 questions have been asked. I am now asking a question and I am entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u96	And I just gave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u97	Then there can be no other conclusion than that the Prime Minister is thinking of wiping out Mr De Graaf's and me's bill, the PVV Group's bill to ban Islamic expressions because it only leads to misery and lack of freedom, with a stroke of pins on the table. And that's when the prime minister isn't even talking about it right now. Looking at what he is doing: he is not acting against mosques where ISIS is being helped, where ISIS is being recruited, where the Somali Al-Shabaab is being supported, where it is said that adulterers and gays should be thrown off roofs. And then he himself once again supports the terrorists in Syria. Madam Chairman, with a friend like that, you don't need enemies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u98	The bill referred to by Mr Wilders, which has yet to be published, contradicts the... I haven't seen it yet. It's been filed on Wednesday, so we haven't been able to study it yet. But what he said about this in the debate last Wednesday shows that the draft law is in such a fundamental way contrary to all the principles of the rule of law that I do not have to wait for further advice from the cabinet to say that we will take a very negative view of this. Mr Wilders puts Islam at the heart of this issue every time. I will defend here that we are a country in which people can choose to adhere to a certain faith and to exercise that faith. As long as that is within the law, that is not a matter for the government and we will never judge people on it, but never at all. If people use faith as an argument for engaging in terrorist activities, then the whole government, the whole state, will turn against them with all its power. By mixing these two things, Mr Wilders in fact weakens that second. Actually, I think that's very wrong. He's been doing that for years, but well, that's his political mission. I'll get to the climate. The first question I received was what is going on with the 55% objective of the cabinet and how it is going in Europe. We're working on that. Indeed, we want to work with other countries to ultimately raise the European target to 55%. That will have to be done by 2020. Then it's deadline. How's it going? We'll talk to other countries. We are now working actively with France, Sweden, Portugal, Spain, Finland and Luxembourg. All these countries are aiming to raise the EU's climate target, not all to 55%, but it is moving in the right direction. That is also in line with the Jetten c.s. motion. to launch a diplomatic offensive. Our deadline is 2020. As is well known, the European Union must indicate in that year, in the framework of the Paris Agreement, whether it will increase its reduction target. We agreed in the coalition agreement that, should that not be possible, we are going to try to form a leading group of like-minded European countries, probably Northwest European countries. A minimum price for CO for the electricity sector is also being discussed with France and Denmark, among others. If I look through the hairs of my eyes at these conversations, which I also regularly try to contribute to, they are conducted mainly from Foreign Affairs and from Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, I have to say that Germany in particular is not convinced of this goal at the moment. That will really have to be talked to even longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u99	I had a question about the climate tables, the training polder at this time, which we have to wait and see what happens. One thing we already know. What has come out of that is that Shell's senior boss thinks it is perfectly normal to publicly demand that taxpayers help this billion-dollar company financially to comply with environmental measures. I have already had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Pechtold, Mr Rutte's coalition partner. I would very much like to know what the Prime Minister thinks of Shell's training in this way, and in that way, in fact, the climate ambitions of this cabinet will cease.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u100	One of the discussions that is going on is, of course, that with industry. I'm not going into it now. Why don't I? Because those tables gave birth to their first reports. We are now working as a cabinet to see how the Planning Office for the Environment reacts with its calculations. If they come out with it, hopefully we will be putting our views next to it at that time or else as soon as possible afterwards. That's a complicated process, so it doesn't make much sense that I'm now... I'll get that question from more sides, so I'm just warning you. If I am now to be asked to deal with proposal A of table Z and proposal B of table Y, I do not think it is appropriate to come up with a good response from the cabinet to the various proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u101	It is very relevant to hear from the Prime Minister what he thinks of Shell's attitude, especially in the light of Shell's present in the form of a dividend tax abolition. Shell is threatening to clap the climate tables. Fortunately, they have said that in all honesty. They demand subsidies, otherwise they will not comply with environmental measures and simply stop thinking about an ambitious climate policy. My question is separate from what's going to come out of that and whether Shell can get them to come up with a dead sparrow. I just want to know from this Prime Minister what he thinks of Shell's attitude, which has made that company clear to everyone here in the open. I just want an opinion and an ethical conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u102	I'm not here to give my opinion. I am standing here to try to manage the processes that the cabinet gives direction to. And at least I am not standing here to delay those processes with comments. If I now respond to the state of affairs and the statements and comments of everything and everyone, it will not help to ensure that we reach a good judgment on the whole state of affairs of the emerging climate agreement. It's gonna be a while before that's all there. It is very complicated and the ambitions are high. We're working very hard on it as a coalition. Then I do not think it is appropriate for me to comment on all kinds of issues now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u103	This cabinet shifts things off and leaves to business and citizens about what and when something happens. It takes absolutely no responsibility for climate policy and leaves it all to society itself. At least I expect such a cabinet to have an opinion and to give an opinion on how society is dealing with this issue and with the major challenges surrounding climate change. And if a billion-dollar company here in the Netherlands, Shell, receives one gift after another in the form of tax benefits, finds it perfectly normal to demand from the taxpayer a subsidy to implement these environmental measures, then I want to know what it thinks of this cabinet. And I think everyone wants to know that, because Shell is constantly showing that they are disregarding the ambitions of this cabinet and what the taxpayer wants to happen to the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u104	I can try to contain it in other words. We are in a delicate process of ultimately achieving the climate goals on the basis of a lot of thinking that has been done by all kinds of sectors. That's what calculations are glued to by those who go about it. And then, as a cabinet, we have to give an opinion on it again. This will then lead to discussions, which will hopefully lead to a more comprehensive climate agreement later this year. I really do not believe that I am promoting this process by responding now to all kinds of statements and parts. There will then be all kinds of other questions: how do I feel about this, what do I think about sister? I'm gonna have to slow myself down on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u105	I do not see the relationship between the negotiations that are now continuing and a clear statement by the cabinet about Shell's attitude. It helps the negotiations precisely when the cabinet says that we are the greenest cabinet, we want to be, at least, and we do not want such a large billion company as Shell, which has already caused so many climate problems, to start threatening to cooperate only if it receives subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u106	This is the fourth time the same question. Then I have to give the same answer again and then I'm going to try again not to repeat myself, but to give the same answer in even more beautiful terms. I don't think that's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u107	The Prime Minister has indicated that a number of countries want more than the European CO reduction targets. Can he be anything more concrete? He has, of course, had a lot of discussions over the past year and so has Minister Wiebes. Which countries have so far agreed to want 49% or 55%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u108	I can say one thing about that, otherwise I will touch the confidentiality of those talks. That is sensational, because these countries do not want to hear back in the Dutch Parliament what they are saying to us. But what we know is that we are talking to France, which is one of the issues on which we are working very intensively with the French Government, as well as Sweden, Portugal, Spain, Finland and Luxembourg, because they are all striving to raise the EU's climate goal. But I feel a little constrained in this House to say exactly where each of these countries is going. Because I don't even know if they've made that public to their parliaments themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u109	But the Prime Minister is of the opinion that we do not want all entrances in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u110	I think the coalition agreement is clear. That says: we are planning 49% now, but we would really like 55%, but that must be the result of a European debate in 2020. That's how we decided, and I'm making myself strong for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u111	But even with that 49%, we must have a leading group that participates, because it makes no sense if that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u112	The coalition agreement is also very clear on this: we are planning 49%, we are aiming for 55%, we are ultimately looking at what is happening and that is what it will be. We are going to do the European goal that ultimately comes out, and then, if it is below 55%, we are going to try to form a leading group with countries to boost that goal again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u113	Something more concrete, because we are moving forward on the others in the Netherlands. We're talking about 49%. The Prime Minister is now reporting: Europe to 55%. Frankly, we have to be realistic: Germany is already over 40% difficult. So if we in the Netherlands decide to set up a leading group, I want to look at what other countries are doing. Otherwise we will be in the wild to negotiate with each other in the Netherlands. So we need to know what it's doing abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u114	However, I shall simply implement the government agreement, in which we have made very precise agreements: we are planning 49%, we are ultimately doing what will come out in 2020, which may be higher or lower than 49%, but if it is less than 55%, we are aiming to increase that percentage as much as possible towards 55%. That's the goal. What do you have to do for that? Now plans at 49% are on the basis of which we are trying to reach a climate agreement. Two: we are indeed in this lobby with other countries in order to see if you can move as many as possible to plan for that 55%. But that's a process we're in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u115	Last time, because I think that's important. My view is that at this stage we would have at least a number of countries that would do 55%, but 49%. If that is not the case and we are indeed planning 49%, then we are planning a little bit on paper, if in reality these countries give the impression that it may not be going so fast or if they say: we do want to go from 40% to 45%. I would just like to say that, at some point, we really need to know before the paper of the negotiations becomes a fact, what is going to happen. Otherwise, we are driving the whole of the Netherlands crazy for a purpose, while the countries around us are not participating. We need to get a better look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u116	Yet here too, the cabinet is trying to implement the coalition agreement as effectively as possible. This is set at 49%, trying to move Europe to 55%, and ultimately a European target will be achieved by 2020, and that is what it is, including for the Netherlands. If that is below 55%, we are going to try to do so with as many countries around us as possible. So that deadline is 2020 and not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u118	My last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u119	That's what the coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u120	My aim is that 49% is not a paper negotiation. We want to achieve this, but it seems to me that this international context is so important that we will soon have 49% on paper and that the neighbouring countries will do less. I want to make it clear whether, if the Netherlands does more, those other countries are actually going up. If not, we will negotiate, but for a paper negotiation that will be adapted to reality later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u121	But then Mr Buma should have made another coalition agreement, sorry. We have agreed, and I would like to say this: we are planning 49% and we are aiming for 55%. If it turns out to be below 49% by 2020, the Netherlands will also commit itself to that goal. Then Mr Buma is right: you may have planned a few percent too high. But the fact that we are then trying to raise that up with those surrounding countries, not only to 49%, but preferably to go up again, is what I believe we have agreed to. But I'm open to other interpretations. At least that's the anchor I'm sailing on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u122	Still a little while longer, because this is a meaningful negotiation. I mean exchange of views. This is not a negotiation of: if you do not support me, I will never support you again. The Prime Minister is quite right about the coalition agreement. So my aim is not to say that that is the only thing I want to say that is 49% down, and I had hoped that the contacts of recent times would have made it much clearer that countries are simply participating. That's disappointing, and I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u123	But that is where my expectation is that you will not be able to leave the debate until the end of the year, and I fear that it will only be clear by 2020, because in a number of countries that debate is very sensitive. If we go on a broader front to that 49% and perhaps even higher, with hopefully that 55%, you can reach consensus on that at some point. But if you ask now, those countries say: yes, but then I have to decide in isolation and that is not popular with my people. That's why I thought our coalition agreement was so clever. It says: let's stick to a little bit in between. We are now, I believe, at 40% with this European objective. We are now planning 49% and we are hoping for 55%. Eventually, something comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u124	Then it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u125	I share Mr Buma's concerns. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do a blessed job here. I'm sure of it. But I find it incredibly important that the Prime Minister himself should use all his political weight and experience at the summits to seduce and push the facts of those objectives. I would like to hear a little more about that in the future. The ministers, especially Minister Wiebes, are busy with the climate tables right away and the climate agreement, but what is going on in Europe is quite in line with what Mr Buma said. Could the Prime Minister say a little more about that? If he can't quite tell which country does what, can he at least tell us what his role is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u126	My role is, of course, to address this in our bilateral contacts. I do not do that during the European summits, because it is not going to work there. I have to do that bilaterally. On the day of the municipal elections, President Macron and I had a long conversation with delegations around the corner. We then found out that we were already secretly aware that the Netherlands and France, outside the euro, because there are differences of opinion about this, are very much in line. This is true of issues such as migration, the surveillance of external borders and integration, but also of climate. With that, I'm not going to link Macron here to the 55%. I can't do that. He'll have to tell himself exactly what he wants. But we very much agree that a very ambitious European climate policy is needed. I need that because he could be a motorcycle in that whole process. I did the same last December when we had a summit in Paris, where many European countries, but also countries from other parts of the world, were together. That was kind of a mid-term summit after the 2015 Paris Summit. The big summit in Paris was in 2015, right? I'll take a look at Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u127	2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u128	Yeah, it was in 2015. Last year there was another sort of intermediate summit. I also discussed this with many of my colleagues at the time. I think France is very relevant in this, because I know that the Germans are dealing with all kinds of domestic political problems and the whole issue of the atomausty. Then there is the fact that sometimes from our point of view it is going in the wrong direction rather than in the right direction when it comes to coal and lignite, which in turn affects us. France is therefore an important engine for me. I'm working on that, but I'll do it behind the scenes as much as I can. I know Blok and Wiebes do the same. We coordinate this thoroughly, but yes, it will not all become very audible and we do not have the Germans with us at the moment. I have to be honest about that, too. The countries I call France, Sweden, Portugal, Spain, Finland and Luxembourg are participating, not necessarily with 55%, but with ambition, but not yet with Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u129	I am very pleased with the commitment that I also see the Prime Minister giving himself in this, because it is just another 2020 and then this is very important. I have another question about climate. Reducing warming and CO is incredibly important, but yesterday I also zoomed in on the fluctuations, the extreme weather conditions. To what extent is the cabinet prepared to involve another department, namely Infrastructure and Water State, which can be of incredible importance in this respect? I don't think that's two separate cases. It's not just about stable warming. This is particularly true of the shock-by-shock extremes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u130	I very much agree with you. Cora van Nieuwenhuizen and Stientje van Veldhoven I have to take a look; that's what she's working on. I was a member of the High-Level Panel on Water of the SGVN and the head of the World Bank, but that has now been lifted. We have discussed, among other things, the pricing of water, so in fact, what it costs in terms of the environmental and climate impact. That has everything to do with climate adaptation. It is also an export product. Let's be honest about that: we also make money from it. So that is a big topic, also towards the Small Island Developing States, for example in the Pacific. This doesn't play so much in the Caribbean. There you have big trouble with hurricanes again. But the gradual disappearance of whole islands in the Pacific is, of course, a very serious problem. That was also part of our campaign to join the UN Security Council, because we are really trying to mitigate that problem with the countries there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u131	I am very happy about that, because climate is not only the Netherlands. It's not even just kingdom. It's also the Tua Islands, or Tui Islands, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u132	Tuvalu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u133	Tuvalu! Yeah, but Tui's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u134	TUI is a travel organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u135	The Tuvalu...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u136	The Tuvalu you can fly with TUI!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yeah, yeah, yeah. And TV was once sold for 50 million dollars by those islands and I believe they are still proud of that together with Foppe de Haan. One of these islands, the island of Nui, was once the new Dutch island discovered for the King by H.M. Pollux and the Reigersbergen in 1821. So, you again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u138	I'm sure you can fly there with TUI.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u139	Listen and learn!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u140	Yes. The island is known for its small coconuts. Yes! They were exchanged for the ship's russ of the Pollux crew and the Reigersbergen. The crew just didn't dare to go ashore, and that's why they were thrown over and over, from the boat and from the beach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u141	And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u142	One of the officers' ship reports can be read, and if you like biographies, that's a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u143	What we are doing here is all in line with the President's call this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yeah, sure. Mr. Chairman. Back to the climate and the adaptation. I think it is particularly important that the plans for the climate and the actions of the administrators of Infrastructure and Water State should be one-to-one, whether it be the Delta Plan or the dikes. That's what I hear say, not only worldwide, but also here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u145	Sure, because it is inevitable that, in addition to limiting the warming, you do your best to be as prepared as possible through resilience and adaptation. I think we need to be real with each other: we are really facing a huge global problem right now, really huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u146	I would like to congratulate the cabinet on the commitment it makes internationally to go to that 55%. We hear from all our contacts abroad that something has really changed and that the Netherlands is now at the forefront of achieving that goal. That's what deserves compliments. Here in the Netherlands, negotiations are now taking place at the climate tables. When I see what's really coming from the industry, I'm still disappointed. I think it is very important for the Prime Minister to confirm here once again that the coalition agreement has agreed that there will be a CO-bottom price. I think it'll help a lot if they know at that table that they can't just get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u147	The coalition agreement is, of course, leading, but I really do not want to go into these climate tables any further. Why not? Because we're in that whole process right now. This, of course, also threatens pensions - not with Mr Klaver, but with a number of others. Again: these are natural pots that are on the fire. The more we open those lids, the stronger the risk of those jars getting off the boil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u148	I'm gonna wait until the note gets to the Prime Minister. Maybe he'll say something else that'll make me very happy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u149	This is a point made by Mr Wiebes. You're right to say it. The bottom price in the coalition agreement is for electricity alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u150	Yeah, but that's why it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u151	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u152	After all, it is also about industry, about electrification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u153	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u154	If you want to get that done, you're gonna have to have one of those CO bottom prices. What we are seeing now, and if I read what is there, is that much is actually being done to get out of it. I would be very pleased if the Prime Minister could just appoint this as a matter of fact: this is what is in the coalition agreement, and we think this is important. That is simply an important signal to give to the industry that is now negotiating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u155	I think they're safe enough to do. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u156	Could you do that? Yeah? So...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u157	What Mr Klaver just said: I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u158	That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u159	I know. That's why I put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u160	The SP has long advocated climate justice. That does not mean "the energy bill of ordinary Dutch people up," but rather "let the big polluters pay." What we see now in climate policy is not working. It's unfair and it doesn't work. We see that households already have to pay more than they consume and companies pay less than they consume. How will the Prime Minister organise climate justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u161	Quite apart from that precise term, I think we need to establish that 'polluter pays' is an important starting point for a robust and fair climate policy, and that the large energy-intensive companies are part of the European emissions trading system, in which CO rights are traded. The price of these rights, which we can also say, has risen sharply in recent months and is now around €19 per tonne. That was €9 per tonne a few months ago, so there is now about €10. Several parliamentary letters have also been written about the climate agreement, indicating that there are legitimate concerns about affordability for households, but also about the competitiveness of companies. Quite simply: if the household wallet is going to suffer too much because of that transition, then you will lose your support. And if business goes away, jobs will disappear, while global emissions will remain. No one's gonna get along with that either. And that is exactly the type of book support in which we try not to destroy jobs and take households with us. We are going to make a very big transition as a society over the next ten years, and we need to make it across a broad front. We have to take everyone with us, and everyone has to understand and feel that he can experience that, so we don't ask people the impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u162	The Prime Minister himself cites the expression 'polluter pays'. That, I think, is a very good expression. But then I look at the Macro Economic Recognition we've received in the light of what I just outlined. We then see that families are going to contribute 800 million and companies 500 million. So we can see that it is only getting squirrelly and that, indeed, my words 'climate justice' are only getting further away. The Prime Minister, I think, rightly points to support. We face one of the greatest challenges of the future. There really is a great concern of ours: how are we going to do this in a just way? And in the cabinet plans, it's the families. The energy bill is going up; we were talking about that this morning. In any case, this does not contribute to support, but it does not contribute to the fair implementation of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u163	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen. I do have a lot of worries. But if a journalist asks me if I'm worried about anything, I say yes, but it's our job to turn those concerns into action. Mrs Marijnissen wants that, too, I want that. The first thing we need to do now is to make sure that we reach that climate agreement. For this, it is now important that we have coughed up on the basis of the climate tables that we come to a good appreciation on the basis of all the calculations, so that this step by step can lead to a climate agreement. We have the European playing field. At the same time, it's only getting worse. I mean, in all the reports we get about the environment and the climate, it's going in the wrong direction. So the urgency is enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u164	Yes, the urgency is enormous. I also think that this shows that the current policy is not working. That is not only unfair, it is not 'polluter pays', but it does not work either. If we realize this together... We face one of the greatest challenges for the future. If we want to keep our earth healthy and liveable for our children, we will have to organise it in a just way. What this cabinet is doing is throwing up the energy bill. Well, if you're gonna put pressure on the support base, you should do that, so I'd like to say to the Cabinet. So I'm really calling on the Cabinet today to come back to that. We are truly convinced that climate policy will be fair or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u165	I discussed this question with Mr Klaver in detail this morning about energy taxation. But to prevent us from destroying jobs or losing support, I think we all feel. And the knot in the stomach that Mrs Marijnissen describes is also the knot in my stomach. Yeah, that sounds kind of crazy, but we just agree on that. I had actually come to Mr Dijkhoff, who had a more specific question. It is so nice that sometimes you can also do something concrete in the climate field. This will help us to feel that there is also scope for action in the shorter term. He asked: how can you guide people with simple tools, so that they can also calculate what CO-saving measures are? He also described that he himself is involved in such a process. I think it is indeed important to do so, to know what to do about your home, what to do if you want to get rid of your gas boiler, which are concrete handles, and objective information. EnvironmentalCentral is the foundation that provides objective information, which provides information about measures you can take, help make choices, information about how much you can save and how you can find a good performer. They have their own scientific advisory board, which guarantees the objectivity of the information. That website is browsed two million times a year to see the energy savings. There are also loans from the National Energy Savings Fund. But it is also possible to include measures in the financing of the mortgage. In addition, there is a subsidy available for owners who want to replace their gas boiler with a heat pump. That's the Investment Grant for renewable energy, the ISDE. I would like to say that, in the context of the current climate agreement, we will look into what more can be done to help, because this information was undoubtedly known to Mr Dijkhoff and he encountered practical problems in his private deavours. I think that is an incentive and an encouragement for us to see what we can do to make it as easy as possible and to deliver it almost turnkey to people: this is the effect of that measure, so it is possible, there is the subsidy, et cetera. 'Cause that helps, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u166	No misunderstanding: I know the initiatives that the Prime Minister calls them. They're very good. But there are thresholds to take it all into you and follow it. I mean, thank you for referring to my personal circumstances, but that's where things are going very well. I'll figure it out. If I had to wait for the cabinet, the renovation would be a little too long. So I'm just gonna go through with it. When I'm working on it and pulling it all together, I feel like there are bulkheads between them that are neat. You also get information, but that ends in the next step. If we want to be broad-minded and not just nerds like me, who are willing to surf at night and deepen myself into it, it should be even easier. And preferably also with turnkey products. That's very appealing to me. I therefore look forward to the government developing these kinds of thoughts towards the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u167	The name Jetten also fits here. In the motion-Jetten c.s. was requested for a dome campaign. That too is the minister of EZK taking with him at the moment. Do you want me to take a look at all the questions about climate? Perhaps there are already answers to questions that are still in danger of being asked. I think we all agree with Mr Van der Staaij on the affordability and feasibility of the transition. I have just said something about this in response to Mrs Marijnissen. That's what I've got the household wallet involved in. Questions have also been asked about the Climate Law. In fact, we have already discussed this in all the debates. A question has been asked about the ODE, the storage of renewable energy. The specific question was: why doesn't that become fairer? As you know, this is a storage in the energy bill intended to finance the uneconomic summit in renewable energy production. Both citizens and businesses use energy. It is therefore reasonable in itself that both groups should contribute to promoting the sustainability of energy production. There has been a burden-sharing since the start of the ODE whereby households and businesses both contribute 50% to the revenue. The burden-sharing between households and businesses has taken into account international competition, to which energy-intensive companies in particular are exposed. For this reason, a declining tariff structure has been chosen. The climate agreement now looks at broadening the renewable energy incentive scheme plus, the SDE+ scheme, and thus also at the design of the ODE. This will come back to the climate agreement later this year. At least that's what we're trying to do. Then there was the question of how we will involve the environment more in the construction of windmills. That was a question from Mr Buma. It is indeed very important for the support for the energy transition to involve people in the construction of wind farms. That is why it is rightly stated in the coalition agreement. We have taken a number of steps in the past period. Five principles are applied: search for common interests and give form to projects from those interests; involve the environment as early as possible; increase transparency and confidence; environmental management is a joint responsibility, both of the competent authority and the initiator; delivery per project customized. Those agreements in the coalition agreement are now also part of the talks on the climate agreement. The Minister for Economic Affairs will be discussing this shortly. Mr. Chairman. I think that the government agreement is very clear about what we think of the flight tax and about the steps we want to take in it. In accordance with the coalition agreement, we want to focus first on a European tax. It also examines the possibility of charging noise and polluting aircraft. But that's all very well in the coalition agreement. Let's see. We've had this one, we've had this one, and we've had it. I think that answers all the questions about climate. Maybe one more thing I'll be given by Mrs Kaag. This is relevant in connection with the discussion on adaptation and mitigation. In the cooperation between trade and development cooperation, this is, of course, very SDG-oriented, so focused on the Sustainable Development Goals. I thought number 13 was the SDG Water, I say out of my mind, but of course it goes much further. Oh, sorry, it's number six. Then it's both about adaptation and about mitigation. In this context, we are also looking at a climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u168	And that abbreviation stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u169	Sustainable Development Goals. And I thought number 13 was water, but it's number 6. 6 is water and sanitation, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u170	The Prime Minister is talking about mitigation: my group always gets angry because I'm "nerding" too much, but okay. Thank you for this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u171	It is indeed not beautiful Dutch. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u172	I don't think anyone could tie a rope to it. But I can confirm: it was a good story. I have a question about this. Annemieke Nijhof, chairman of the Mobility Table, warned in an interview with Mr Buma: please don't get scared in the Netherlands; we are still working; we are trying to take account of all those citizens, so that everyone can experience this transition. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u173	This is another point. Now Mr Klaver asks me to respond to a discussion that I have not followed. This is news to me. Mrs Nijhof responded to something Mr Buma said. I didn't follow either of them, so I'm gonna stay away from that for a while. Of course I have followed the people, intensively, but not specifically these statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u174	I come to that because Mrs Thieme, quite rightly, asked questions about the tables. She was actually sent away with the remark: we should not disturb the brooding chicken. Now one of the coalition partners actually says that he is very worried about what comes from those tables, that this is going the wrong way and that citizens are not going to see it like that. One of the presidents of those tables says, please, stop it. I think it would be good if the Prime Minister made an appeal here, not to Mr Buma or anyone else in general, to wait quietly for what comes from there and not to be afraid, and say that we are going to shape that transition in such a way that everyone can experience it. I would like Mr Rutte to support that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u175	Now Mr Klaver asks me to take part in the debate on Mrs Nijhof's call for a statement by Mr Buma. I haven't seen either. He's asking me to take sides with Mrs. Nijhof. That's crazy, isn't it? I'm not gonna do that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u176	Mr. Clover, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u177	Then I'll rephrase. He doesn't have to support anyone. I would appreciate it if Mr Rutte would say here that we should not be scared when it comes to climate change. It's a very big task. We have to make sure that everyone is going through it. Negotiations are now under way at the climate tables. Let's wait and see. Let us wait and see the government's juice appreciation and then have a solid substantive debate on what to do in order to achieve the objectives, but also on how to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands is able to experience them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u178	You ask that question in the context of your previous question. There is a statement by Mr Buma which I do not have very clear, let alone its context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u179	No, Mr. Clover, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u180	If I now answer a general question, with the context that you first asked that question in relation to Mr Buma, I will reply to Mr Buma, but I do not know what he said. I don't think I should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u181	I suggest you move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u182	On the one hand it may be surprising for the people in Groningen, on the other hand it is also worrying that the whole of the General Political Reviews has not yet been about turning back the gas in Groningen. That's what we're doing. The cabinet, the coalition, was somewhat surprised when it turned out that the "tech" as I call them loving, said it could. But in the meantime, we're dealing with that backup. I do not always hear the same clear positive sounds about that. It happened with dozens of homes a year, but I'd like to know when these big batches are really being treated. That's what I believe it's called in more official jargon. Those groups of houses are being treated. When will people be clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u183	Let me say that I will do so in the second term, because that question was not asked last Wednesday. So I'm gonna have to get out of the memory now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u184	Oh, yes, I do. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u185	At least I didn't have him in my answer right now. There's also an official "no" shuffle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u186	Then the answer comes in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u187	However, I have not seen him come by in the preparations for the answer. So I'm not gonna take that out of my head. I'll get it in writing and then I'll share it with you in second term. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the housing market. Can I say a few things about that? They are important, also for introduction to various questions that have been asked. There have been many reforms in the housing market in recent years. There is also a limitation of the mortgage interest deduction. Corporates have become more focused on their core tasks. Rent policy promotes flow. That is a sensible policy, and we will continue to do so. There's Mr. Asscher. I have only just begun the first sentence of the introduction!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u188	I'll hear you better when I get to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u189	Oh, then it's okay. Then I'm not gonna get distracted. The strong development of the economy is also visible in the housing market. Increasing purchasing power and low interest rates are driving demand for housing. The pressure on the housing market has increased rapidly. Also today there was another report from the CBS about the national increase in house prices. There is also a difference. You can see a clear trend in and around the big cities: it is harder than the national average. And there is increasing concern about accessibility for people on modal incomes, i.e. regular, normal salaries. It takes buyers and tenants, starters and streamers longer before they find a house. It also takes longer than they would like given their family situation, the place of work or the stage of life in which they are at that time. That's why we're working along three lines right now. Firstly, the aim is to build more, in order to avoid further delays in the coming years. Two. Getting the flow going, so that the current housing stock is better exploited. And three. Addressing regional bottlenecks. Let me mention a few measures for each of these three. That is also partly to answer a few questions. First of all, build more. The intention is to build up 700,000 houses until 2027. That's an average of 75,000 homes a year. This can only be done if everyone helps: governments, municipalities, provinces, government, corporations, investors and, of course, the builders. This also requires space for housing and for the development of housing plans. We are making 38 million available this year to accelerate the development of new buildings. We ensure that the national infrastructure for transport connects with housing development. And we support the commitment at regional level with national measures. To this end, we also adapt the Crisis and Recovery Act. This removes unnecessary building barriers and keeps the momentum going. And the government, educational institutions and the construction sector are working together to actually launch the building agenda. Two. Getting the flow going. It is important that there are more properties in the middle rental segment, because not everyone wants or can buy a house and not everyone is eligible for a subsidised rental. At the local level you can see that more and more agreements are being made between municipalities, corporations and private landlords to add and retain more homes to that middle rental segment. This week, the bill was sent to the Chamber for middle hire. This makes it easier for corporations to build middle-rent housing. For example, we are ensuring affordable and suitable housing at every stage of our lives, for example suitable homes for the elderly, and we were discussing this earlier today with Mr Krol and Mr Wilders, and housing for people with a care question. That's what we were talking about. It is also agreed locally between municipalities, corporations and social institutions. Finally, tackling regional bottlenecks. It is important that municipalities have the right tools so that they can also address the bottlenecks that arise in their region. So you have to go with market players and see what major problems there are in the housing market. It also explores the need to supplement or adapt legislation. An example of this is a legal embedding of a registration system for tourist rental and tackling malicious landlords. In doing so, we work together with municipalities and regions affected by population decline, so that there will also be more experimental space to ensure that you can pool all kinds of facilities at district level. This again contributes to the viability of shrinking regions. Mr. Chairman. That's an introduction. There are only a few questions left to answer. Mr Asscher interrupted at some point in connection with a comment by Mr Buma on making agreements on more investment capacity. On this point, I can say that in the budget, 100 million has been made structurally available for the reduction of the landlord's levy. That is what the budget says, but it is good to say that. This ultimately gives 2 to 3 billion additional investment capacity for the corporate sector as a whole. This is enough to continue investing in new construction and sustainability in the coming years. We know that there is still sufficient investment capacity in the sector as a whole, although individual housing companies may, of course, have a problem. That is why we are also looking at whether investment capacity is regionally well distributed. If that is not the case, we are going to see if we can deploy investment capacity in those places where it is most needed. In this context, the question has also been raised as to whether we can exempt housing corporations from the measures of the ATAD, the Earnings Stripping measure. This is not legally possible, since the risk of State aid being prohibited is therefore too high. However, in the face of the increase in the burden of this cabinet period, the cabinet is putting about equal burden-relieving measures. I refer to the lower Vpb rate, the 100 million tariff reduction in the landlord's tax, but also 100 million for the reduction of the landlord's tax on investments in sustainability. As I said, with this 100 million tariff reduction, some 2 to 3 billion investment capacity will be released. Mr Asscher asked about the cooperation table for middle hire. He said that doesn't sound very action-oriented. I was a little offended when I heard that, because we set up this cooperation table in the previous cabinet together. He's headed by Rob van Gezel. The intention is to get the urgency of more middle rent wide on the agenda. It is of course important to build and for building it is necessary that parties know each other at local level and know how to find each other. And I did. I agree with Mr Asscher that it is a terrible name. Now it seems to really succeed in getting parties together and also making agreements. I agree with Mr Asscher that you cannot live in such a table, but you cannot build without cooperation. And that does seem to produce results. In this context also fits that bill mid-rent. Then there was a question from Mr Asscher about the deletion of the possibility clause. It's true that we do. That is actually because we want to prevent the use of a housing market instrument for general income repair. We think that's a crazy figure. That is why the automatic compensation will be cancelled. But the position of low incomes is not neglected. Look also at the integral purchasing power picture, also for next year, where the effects of that provision depend heavily on the actual differences between assistance development and rental development. For example, the latest forecasts of the Central Planning Bureau in August show that in 2019 the deletion of the can-determine has no effect. Moreover, from 2020 onwards, the impact of the can-determine is structurally 7 million in higher expenditure on the rent payment due to the expiry of the maximum income limits. On balance, these measures lead to an increase in expenditure. Mr Buma has proposed in a document that a government commissioner should be set up. I got the question from GroenLinks what the cabinet thinks about that. I think we all agree that the urgency of the construction work is being felt tremendously. So it's good that we're all thinking along about how to do that. I think we need to be careful that a government commissioner can also evoke the picture as if you were laying down new powers at central level. I do not think that is desirable at the moment, because it is important to have that conversation at regional level. This is also reflected in the work of the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. There is also no lack of willingness to act together and to find the bottlenecks, but I can say that Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is always prepared to see if additional measures are needed. We do not think that this very specific instrument is appropriate at the moment, because it could in turn lead to more bureaucracy at the national level. I had already answered Mr Krol's question at the introduction earlier today, so that answered the questions about the housing market that I had identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u190	I started this debate with what is the key question for us, namely whether it would be possible to pay more attention to the people and less to the multinationals and whether there might have been an outstretched hand. It's 4:30 p.m. by now. Summarizing: we saw at the dividend tax that the outstretched hand was more like a middle finger. We saw the simple message with the disabled: there is no money for it. We saw in education that the teacher's wish was called "gratuit." At the apprenticeships it was said: interesting, you are right, but there is no money. Now we're living. It is slowly getting a bit thin as the cabinet shows, not so much towards the opposition, but towards people's concerns. This rent supplement is going to cost people €100 per year in the lowest income groups. I know we spend more on rent payments, because the rents are going up. But it's gonna cost them $100. The argument is: you should not use a housing measure for income policy. But this isn't a housing measure. The rent allowance is right to ensure that people are sure of an affordable home. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he's prepared to reconsider this cut on tenants. With the simplification; I am fine with all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u191	Let's talk about the list first. I didn't say the teacher's wish was gratuitous. I thought that Mr Asscher's request to me would have been gratuitous if I had responded. Not Asscher's request, but if I had responded to that, about those salaries. Not the teacher's request: I never said that. As regards incapacity for work, the issue of the WIA, I have pointed out that there are discussions going on in connection with the payment of wages in the event of illness and that I think it would be useful to give that a chance. So I said: let's see what comes out of that. It's a bubbling pot on the fire. Not to say that Asscher had a bullshit point there, because I said: I understand his concern very well, if you go from the three times three to the one times nine. As far as the disabled are concerned, I have told him that I would like to know what he will come up with in the second term. I think I have made an opening with that, to see if he comes up with any proposals. I believe that I have given the signal that we are prepared to take this very seriously. So I am waiting for Mr Asscher's second term when it comes to reducing the apprenticeship system, to the b.B.L.B. I would just like to say that it is not that bad. Now on this specific issue: It is a large amount. If we delete this now, it will not be covered. It is therefore not foreseen to withdraw this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u192	As a defence: this affects people with €100 a year. They're tenants. It's a big amount of money. Yeah, it's a lot of money for those people. We shouldn't do that now. It's about security of existence. It's about people who can't tie all the strings right now and are very worried about that. With a totally technocratic reasoning. I object to that. It is not my concern at all that there are pots on the fire and that three times three is nine. All at your service. I am talking about people of flesh and blood: a man who is now seeing this debate and who will no longer have a safety net and a woman who will not be able to pay rent because the rent is being cut. And that happens in a time of numbers that the cabinet was gloating about a few days ago. So again the question: are the Prime Minister and the coalition prepared to offer room for this group that has the most trouble? I want, if that's the intention, to provide cover at least in the second term. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u193	I await the proposal in the second term, but I am not standing there waiting for it. I just said that we are very interested in what he comes up with in the b.B.L. In addition, in this specific point, for 2019, there are no effects of the deletion of the "Can' provision in 2019. The Central Planning Office calculated that in August. Against the deletion of the possibility clause, the drop in the maximum income limit will result in a structural increase of 70 million in spending on the rent payment in 2020. I didn't think we were gonna lower the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u194	Finally. Always good to take a look at the manual debate through Rutte. We have actually seen all the variants: the annual remark about the pajamas and the review of the speaker. And now we get the opposite argument: it is too expensive and it will have no effect next year. I don't care what you choose. I don't want that cut to go through. But I also heard an opening: if we come up with proposals for cover, it will be looked at with an open eye. I'd like to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u195	We're always looking at things, but I'm not gonna give you the hope that we're gonna see opportunities here. I think I have made it quite clear that we are in the spirit of cooperation, but that is a lot less at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u196	Good to hear from the Prime Minister that he's always looking at things. Then I've got one more. I'm going back to the social housing for that. The Prime Minister rightly said that in general there is a shortage of housing, even in the case of social housing. I would like to make that connection again with those status holders, Syrians and others, who have been admitted to the Netherlands. 'Cause what turns out to be? In the four years from 2014 to 2017, 91,000 status holders were transferred to social housing. Now there are on average about 1.7 people in a home in the Netherlands. This means that 53.000 social housing units are currently allocated to the so-called status holders, and that is as many social housing units as were added or purchased in the years '14, '15 and '16. So what do we see? The new social housing units purchased and added correspond to what was actually provided to the status holders in terms of number. The Dutch can therefore wait for their social rental homes because 53.000 go to status holders. That is not only unfair, it also shows once again that if there are Syrians who can return to a safe part of Syria, that would not only be just but also good. Then the Dutch can go to the homes they are entitled to and which they can't go to now. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u197	This cabinet is taking a whole series of measures, especially to ensure that this is done fairly. This is also a policy that has been partly set in motion in the previous coalition. For example, the people who come to the Netherlands do not receive full assistance in the first period. Municipalities can pay a number of fixed charges on an individual basis, such as rent. As far as housing is concerned, municipalities in one-sided districts can adjust rent prices for lower incomes and corporations can also sell more expensive housing. In doing so, they can prevent neighborhoods from being too one-sided. Then there is also the Act special measures metropolitan problems, the Rotterdam Act. It offers the opportunity to impose income requirements on new residents of socially weaker neighbourhoods. For example, we have taken a whole series of measures to ensure that there is no too one-sided composition of neighborhoods and that access to the social rental sector remains there, including for the people born in the Netherlands and ultimately want to fly out of the parental nest to find a home. We try to do everything we can to ensure that there are also houses available for this purpose. However, the Netherlands, as an internationally oriented country, also takes responsibility for receiving refugees who are really on the run. In addition, we try to keep the numbers limited. The agreements with Turkey, for example, will do the same and the numbers will be manageable. Even those people will eventually have to find a place under the roof. But we're all trying to combine that in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u198	All interesting; it is a pity that it is not an answer to the questions I have asked. People don't get "a place" here, the point is that they get all places. Not a place, all the places. In the years '14, '15, '16, about 53.000 social rental homes were purchased or added. That's the same number as in the years '14 to '17 status holders went to social housing. So of everything that is extra attracted or added, not one place went to a Dutchman on the waiting list. It went to status holders, who also come from countries where you can safely go back to now. Madam President, it is almost to be despondent. The Prime Minister never answers. He gets a piece of paper, he reads something, and it's not about what I asked for. What I asked is, do you think this is unfair, too? And will you ensure that those status holders where it can go back to their own country, so that the Dutchman who has been waiting for years for a social rental home and who has ended up on the waiting list, who can wait with his family or as single years for a place because those status holders go first, finally gets the turn? You are also here for the Dutch, or are you only for the status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u199	I am here for anyone who is legally resident in this country and wants to contribute to society here. That's what we're all here for, I think, and we're all here. In concrete terms, we have discussed the issue of Syria and status holders in detail. I replied to that. I have also said what the policy is for that. As a politician, we cannot make such a decision here. You do that on objective grounds. That's what procedures are for, which you can't just break through because you don't like right now. With regard to preventing us from having a fair housing market policy and the children of Dutch families who ultimately want to work on the housing market and have their own home, who leave the parental home, also have opportunities besides people who have come here as refugees. I have just mentioned a whole series of measures taken by the Cabinet to ensure that this is done in a fair and balanced way. It is certainly true that in 2015-2016, when the Turkey agreements, which Mr Wilders was against, were not there yet, we had a big peak in the influx, and it certainly had effects on the housing market. That's just a fact. But that is why it is so important that these agreements are in place and that the influx of asylum seekers is now again manageable. In this way, we can ensure that there is a decent, balanced distribution of the allocation of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u200	The conclusion is that Dutch people in Rutteland, the country of Prime Minister Rutte, get nothing besides fishing every time. This concerns not only housing, but also, for example, the figures for benefits. I have spoken about this at first; you have not yet responded to it. In total, 600,000 non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands receive 7 billion in benefits every year, 700 million in the case of the WW, 3 billion in the case of assistance, 2 billion in the case of incapacity for work and I can go on for a while. In fact, the majority of the people in welfare today are people of non-Western ethnic origin. So what's the case? That Dutchman can afford it all. The Dutchman can pay those 7 billion in benefits for non-Western immigrants. And what does he get in return? That he can also wait a few more years in the queue for such a social rental house, because Prime Minister Rutte says: stay there, go to that house, you can stay there, we buy new ones; they are all for you, not for the Dutch. It is the Dutchman who can pay and who can wait. That is not the Netherlands, that is Rutteland, and that is a terrible country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u201	Indeed, the numbers of people with a refugee background or an immigrant background in those lists are considerable. That's exactly why you have to do a few things at the same time. First of all, you must ensure that the influx of refugees to the Netherlands is manageable. That wasn't in 2015. That is why, as Europe, with Germany and the Netherlands first, we managed to make agreements with Turkey, after which the influx of Syrian refugees has fallen dramatically and the business model of those boat smugglers, in which people were killed in the Aegean, has largely been destroyed. That is very important, because the first thing you have to do to get this under control is to bring the influx to a level that is manageable. The second is that you have to do a lot more to help people get to work. That is exactly the strength of this cabinet, which has also changed thinking in my party about how quickly you are going to learn Dutch and help people get started. That's very good. We have talked tabooly about it in the formation with each other and made agreements that aim to ensure that people get to work as quickly as possible. The combination of these two measures must ensure that we never again get a repetition of what, for example, happened in the 1990s with the flow of refugees that was there and which you still find in social security statistics. It would be really wrong and bad if that was the end result. That's why you need these measures. What can't be done is closing the Netherlands as an island from abroad and thinking: we do a bit like the Temmes van Koot and Bie brothers close the curtains, because then that outside world is no longer there. The outside world is there and it stays there. You have to deal with that. For example, you have to ensure that you have control over the numbers of refugees. Mr. Chairman. Through the Temmes brothers I get to the head international. The first question before that is the one about the Brexit. That is a question from the corner of D66, from Mr Pechtold, but I thought others also talked about it. I completely agree with Alexander Pechtold that Brexit is terrible. It's lose-lose. It's a British decision, but it's lose-lose. I said at the BCC, "I hate Brexit from every angle." Well, that doesn't help. Eventually, we have to face reality. I don't know if a big speech from me at Piccadilly Circus or on a soapbox in Hyde Park tomorrow will convince the British to change course, but we'll try to steer it in the right direction. That is not easy, because there are many aspects to these negotiations. You saw that again yesterday. In the end, the British have really pumped up the expectations of that summit in Salzburg that we all knew would be an intermediate position and not a major breakthrough. That was not the intention of that summit in Salzburg. This, in turn, leads to a great deal of criticism in the British press. I think the position is that we all want a good agreement with the British, which is good for the 65 million, but also for the 420 million in the European Union that will continue. We must avoid doing anything for the 65 million which will damage the 420 million, for example in the internal market. There's still a lot of work to be done. The stakes are high. I think an agreement is still possible, but it's really about time. It's supposed to happen in October. We've scheduled November with pencil, but not to close that deal. In fact, it is planned to be completed in October and then in November. What is very important now is that the United Kingdom and Michel Barnier, the negotiator from the European Union, should engage with each other to achieve that agreement. Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. So what's the key point here? That is the question of how close the link is between the United Kingdom and the European Union and what that means for the Irish-Northern-Irish border. Theresa May's proposal is actually trying to fill in that future relationship in such a way that the problem of that Irish border has been solved, but it does so in a way where you have to ask serious questions. What does that mean for the Customs Union? What does it mean if you allow British people to have access to the internal market for goods, but not the other elements? What does that mean? Things may be possible, but as she now puts it, it is extremely complex and its negotiating space seems very limited. So my guess is that we will talk a lot about it here, behind the scenes in the next few weeks, and we will hear a lot of kettle music. But everyone has a great interest in getting out of there in October, possibly with a small run-through to November. Because a "over the cliff" scenario is very bad for the British and it is very bad for Europe too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u202	I am very pleased with the seriousness of the Prime Minister's description of this situation. I have two questions. You can see that Theresa May is turning the tables a little bit now. She says: Europe is so rigid and if Europe were to be a little easier, that deal would come. Negotiationally, the word 'boiling music' just fell, of course, you can expect anything, but I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at those who have to move and to what extent Europe is prepared to move. Can I expect from the Prime Minister that this is really about the next few weeks, Mr President, a very active duty of information from the cabinet when it comes to involving the Chamber in progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u203	About the last thing, yes. I just don't know if it's possible to share everything if it's all very sensitive. We need to see how we do that. I, Stef Blok and others from the cabinet are, of course, very closely involved in this. With regard to the proposal made by the British Prime Minister in Chequers's Cathouse with her cabinet, I said to the international press: I appreciate the proposal, because it is a serious attempt to take a step. It actually proposes that the British do the customs clearance of goods and then look: is it for the European Union or is it for the rest of the world? That is really sensitive and complicated, because I can also very well imagine that on the European side we will finally say: yes, it is quite something to put the key on the British border. Moreover, these British do not have a great track record in the execution of that border surveillance in terms of goods; that is another point. Perhaps there are other ways to find, because they have the problem that if they remain fully part of the customs union, that limits them very little in the conclusion of free trade agreements. The second point is that if you remain a member of the internal market for goods, you have to decide whether this is a good or a service. It's almost impossible to distinguish. Moreover, goods or services; you also have freedom of movement and capital, i.e. other freedoms in the European Union. How does it relate to that? On that second point there is the risk that the British, if you are not careful, will get something that might be good, but could damage the integrity and integrity of the internal market. This is important for the Netherlands. Our country is the third largest exporter in the world in hard rocks. We are important because we export so much, namely 70%, in the European Union. The vast majority of it does not go to England, so the 420 million people market remains very important to us, regardless of the political significance of that partnership. Paragraph 3 is the Court of Luxembourg. There, I think, is very far-reaching; I think that is soluble, but that has not yet been done. If you add all that up, then we need to continue talking like hedgehogs in the near future. And when I look at it now, I'm afraid it's really necessary for the British to take another step. And then the question arises as to whether this will happen for the party congresses. I don't think so. The Congress of the Conservative and Unionist Party is next week and the Congress of the Labour Party is next week, or vice versa. I don't expect anything for that. So you're going to be going for a really long time in October. Then what is the position of the Labour Party in the near future? That is where positions have actually been held that go a lot further than those of the Conservative Government. Is there a majority in Parliament for a deal at all? Well, I think we should do everything we can to de-escalate and, above all, that is the key to de-escalating the Irish-Northern Irish issue. Finally. What you need next year is an exit agreement. That can be closed, because we already agree on questions like how much money they pay and all kinds of things. Then, in the context of the exit agreement, you need to agree on the political statement on the future relationship, which will then have to be sealed by the end of 2020. And there is the sensitivity because in the exit agreement Europe will ask for a backstop on that Irish border. The British say: yes, but then we must have maximum view of a solution that does not require that backstop. That's exactly the conundrum, I think it's called "exactly the problem we're going around right now." And yes, I must say quite frankly that I fear that will be very complicated if the British do not take another step. I do not think that Europe is unreasonable. Otherwise, I would really say it here, because we are so closely linked to those British, cultural, financial and economic. Something really needs to be done. Mr Buma's question on the WRR report. I very much agree with him that this is a thorough and comprehensive report on European variations. We are going to respond to that, of course, but perhaps I can say a few things about that already. That desire for more flexibility and more variation certainly understands me, and also the cabinet then, of course. Decision-making in a larger European Union is sometimes slow, and sometimes also sub-optimal. And, of course, there are examples of areas where smaller groups of countries work together. Mr Buma also mentioned it. Sometimes, even non-Member States are involved. Think Schengen, which includes Norway and Switzerland. But I also mention the euro. Not all European countries currently have the euro. I call it European patent. At the same time, I think you should agree on what basis is the same for everyone, so that you do have a common foundation. That's what the report says. Otherwise, there may be a risk of an à la carterecept whereby everyone takes out the currants and you lose the 'for what's to come'. That is, I think, the balance that we need to look for, and we will do so in response to the report. Then there is Mr Klaver's question, about Mrs Judith Sargentini, but also about Orbán. Let me start with the bizarre reports about a poster campaign in Hungary against Judith Sargentini, a European MEP from our country, member of GroenLinks. I spoke to Viktor Orbán yesterday and said: is this true? He avoided the question a little bit: "sister and such" and "if you attack me..." I said: fine, we're not sugar but you're not going to start a poster campaign in Hungary against a Member of the European Parliament, you just don't. Guy Verhofstadt is still in it, just like Soros, but it was all about me to stand up for the Netherlands. I doubt the posters are off the table with that. He was gonna think about it. I understand that Judith Sargentini has also been in contact with the President of the European Parliament. This brings me straight to the second point in the European Parliament's ruling on Hungary last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u204	On the previous point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u205	First of all, I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister raised this issue with Orbán. I also doubt that it will bring about anything, but at least we can bring this up. It is true that my party is also in contact with the President of the European Parliament, but we all know what his political origin is, so it is still very important before the European Parliament will also decide on this, or at least the President. In this context, it would be good if, for example, the Permanent Representation could see what it can do towards the European Parliament, because it is not yet very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u206	That's what I'm telling you. Perhaps we can all look here at how we can increase the pressure through our fellow party members in the European Parliament. Moreover, I thought that the President of the European Parliament was from the EPP. I think that party has largely supported the motion. At least, the ruling on criminal proceedings against Hungary. Speaking of which, first of all, the formal answer and then the substantive answer. Formally, now that criminal proceedings against Orbán and especially against Hungary have started, the General Affairs Council last Tuesday announced that the Presidency would consult the Commission and the Council Legal Service on the next steps to be taken. That is also because the procedure laid down in Article 7 of the Treaty is very precise. We have to do that one step at a time. We're not at votes yet. This means that there must be hearings with Hungary. They must have a chance to defend themselves. Of course, we hope for results, but I also said here, in the debate last week in preparation for the informal summit in Salzburg, that the Netherlands, should this lead to nothing, we hope, of course, that it will not hesitate to agree to the observation that there is a danger of serious violations of the values of the Union, as laid down in the Treaty. We hope it doesn't have to come to that, but of course we're concerned. Mr President, Mr Dijkhoff's question on China and the United States: free trade. This is one of the major threats that hang over us, namely that the whole system of free trade is under discussion, and even more fundamental is the system of multilateralism. For a country like the Netherlands... Germany is one and Japan is two and we are number three exporters of the world, still for China; just in hard euros, converted into dollars or where you calculate it. We have so much interest in multilateralism from the point of view of trade, but also from our views on international law and human rights. That is a fundamental question at the moment. There is a tendency in many countries, including very friendly allies, to bilateralise what we used to do multilaterally. That's what we need to keep talking about. We must remain in talks with the United States on this issue, we must also remain in talks with China and the United States together on the risks of a trade dispute. At the same time, the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, must modernise. This is also the importance of China and of the United States and the EU. I was on Boao in early April, an island under the Chinese coast. President Xi Jinping also gave a speech in which he rightly said how important that is. So the WTO is also very important for China. This also applies to the dispute resolution that ensues from it. The EU is working on various solutions to address the concerns of the United States against the WTO appeal body, without affecting the core of independent and binding dispute resolution. Our aim now is to persuade the United States as part of a broader package of negotiations to agree to the selection of new judges in the appeal body. China, with its state-led economy, has an important part to play in some of the issues facing the WTO. That is why we in the European Union are working on proposals to strengthen WTO rules. We work intensively with our allies who have interests here, such as Japan, Canada, Mexico and South Korea. These are important trading partners. They too, similar to the Netherlands, have great interests, both from trade and from our vision how the world was shaped. The special thing is that a whole section of post-war organization is an America that is internationally committed, which is of course a member of NATO and so on, and that embraces multilateralism. We have to make sure of that, and we have to influence it where we can. We have talked about NATO and defence expenditure before, but it also affects, I say, development cooperation, foreign policy and trade. In all these areas, this can ultimately have a far-reaching impact. Anyway, we're trying to help manage things. In any case, the good news is that the European Commission and the White House have managed to avert the threatening trade war between America and Europe for the time being. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another question about the demonisation of Israel, as Mr Van der Staaij mentioned, and to counter it, as in the UN Human Rights Council. Minister Blok of Foreign Affairs sent a letter on this subject this week. Our efforts are aimed at countering disproportionate attention to a country which, in general, is within the United Nations................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are critical of this. We also appeal to the Palestinian Authority. We use international law, our coalition agreement and the EU Council conclusions when assessing proposals as a measure. This is, of course, without prejudice to the need for the United Nations to have room for justified criticism of Member States' actions. But again, we want to prevent this from being disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. That is to answer the questions on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u207	I would like to ask a question about EMU. I do not know whether it will fit under this heading or whether it will be discussed in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u208	No, it should be now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u209	It should be now. The trigger was also Mr Buma's question about the WRR report and perhaps about a Europe of different speeds or a certain variation. There are proposals for a stabilisation mechanism, certainly from the corner of France, but also from Germany. In the coalition agreement, we wrote that we were not in favour of such an EMU budget. Nor are we in favour of a European Minister for Finance. Our Minister of Finance has been able to mobilise a coalition of the willing, which says: we are putting something next to it; we have our own commitment. I do not know to what extent the Prime Minister can outline the current field and reconfirm our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u210	Let's peel it off, even from the coalition chord. Firstly, there is an urgent need to complete the banking union. This means that we must at some point decide on the European stabilisation mechanism as a backstop for the Single Resolution Fund. You're gonna have to do it sometime. This also raises the whole issue of how to deal with sovereign debt, i.e. the debt of countries, and how to restructure it. We have said that this is an important condition for us, a form of it, before we can agree to such a backstop. There are more aspects, but this is an important one. Those conversations are going on and not hopeless. The discussion I have just had is the whole debate on the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme. It's really stuck. We don't think that's a disaster. Our priority is to complete the Banking Union. If the European stabilisation mechanism is the backstop for the Single Resolution Fund in such a variant, we could live well with that. On that condition, of course, we will discuss whether you could convert the ESM into a European Monetary Fund, which also runs programmes and which is capable of coughing up the macroeconomic data needed on how countries stand. The coalition agreement also says something about this. In that context, two things are happening. One is that there are countries that say: should you not give such a new fund the power to intervene in the event of asymmetric shocks? My question is: when will there be? The fund already has the opportunity to apply for a programme if a country is afraid to get into a serious situation. But the most important thing you have to do as a country to absorb shocks is to make sure that your public debt is below 60% and that your deficit develops towards European objectives. Because then you have the biggest buffers and you don't need European help. You don't want us to have that in order, and you don't want us to have another country, so we're gonna have to jump in. A second, more far-reaching proposal is to even create an entire euro area budget, also with the aim of achieving it. The Netherlands has said: we do not see the added value of this either. We have an MFF. We have wishes about ceilings and so on. If there are any thoughts of giving less money to euro area countries within that MFF, you can still look at it. But under the ceiling of the MFF and in the MFF, not separately. I think I'm about to sum up where we are right now. These are all things that Wopke Hoekstra discusses in the eurogroup. You can see that there are very different views about that. The French go a little further into that, but if you really talk to them, there's still a lot to come out of, I guess. There will now be a new Italian government, which, of course, brings with it a completely new playing field because of concerns about whether they are going to comply with the agreements. We had the summit in Meseberg with the Germans just before the summer. The conclusions have been drawn, but that does not mean that they agree. And we've had the summit of June 28-29. We have also discussed this issue and have said the following in particular. One: this banking union must now be a priority, in line with the Dutch commitment. Two: there is a report by the President of the Eurogroup, Centeno, with a whole range of ideas; let us discuss this at a later date. I myself believe that this will also increasingly converge with the debate on the new MFF, the new seven-year budget. But the Dutch commitment is clear. We are not enthusiastic about a euro area budget, such a stabilisation mechanism or a European WW fund. Because in the end, state finances that are in order are the best way to cope with shocks. Then you can take the shock yourself. That is what I said in my speeches in Berlin and Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u211	That was a long answer to a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u212	And sometimes very complicated. Asymmetric shocks, MFF, backstop, the Single Resolution Fund, everything came along. If we let it go down, then I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is crucial that countries themselves are responsible for their financial household. If they make a lot of debts, they are responsible themselves, and they are responsible for bringing everything back to acceptable standards. That is indeed crucial. And that would be the Rubicon that we would pass on if we created such an EMU fund in which we all share it a bit. I am not against solidarity, but we have other ways of doing that, such as the MFF, our common funds, and the Structural Funds. So we are in many ways united within Europe. We need to underline that. The Prime Minister says, "We're not excited about..." I'd like it a little bit stronger anyway. We have said: we do not want it. So that's the line in the sand. Can I assume that what we wrote down is as firm as it was a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u213	The coalition agreement is complete. Of course, I agree with the whole coalition agreement, but I really think that we have written a good text on this in the coalition agreement, even if you look at the four coalition partners. I know there's quite a difference in accent between D66, CDA, VVD and Christian Union. They're not that big, by the way, but they're there. But I think we have found a really good middle ground in the coalition agreement. That is also something we can work with in Europe. It also leaves room for compromise, but the coalition agreement stands. There's no doubt about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to medical-ethical issues, the next subject. Then I have three short questions to answer about varia and the counter-budget, but medical-ethical issues are the last larger chapter. First of all, there is the initiative legislative proposal on making the abortion pill available to the general practitioner and a number of other matters. Let me begin by saying that this coalition is made up of parties that, in general, look at these types of issues very differently, but have found a way to get along well with each other in the coming years. Care, safety and quality are paramount in the provision of abortion aid. We've agreed, as we know, to rescind that bill. The debate on the declaration of government discussed the repeal of the bill on this matter from the previous cabinet. The reasons were that the Council of State was very critical, inter alia because the current practice of termination of pregnancy is already well and carefully carried out, that the administrative burden due to the proposed authorisation obligation has led to a lot of discussion with general practitioners and that the abortion pill is adequately available. Moreover, there is the observation that the opinion of the Council of State on the initiative proposal is not yet public; at least, as far as I know. The opinion of the Council of State will be important in the assessment of the initiative proposal, as will the assessment of the previous legislative proposal. However, this cabinet already attaches importance to the role of the general practitioner in the proper aftercare to prevent repeated abortions. This is a subject on which the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport is in discussion with the abortion clinics and the general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u214	I hear business arguments: administrative burdens, a critical report from the Council of State and objections from the general practitioners, as they lived at the time. May I deduce from that that I would be incredibly grateful for the fact that there is no agreement to force the more liberal parties to vote against, once those business arguments have been removed? Then it's a free matter. The legislative proposal must of course be dealt with carefully and then the authors of the Labour Party and the GroenLinks Group must defend their case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u215	That is, of course, to look at by legislative proposal. We have withdrawn this bill, also for the reasons I mention here. In the end, it is up to the coalition groups how they deal with it. You have also heard Mr Dijkhoff. We know that this is extremely sensitive in the circle of the Christian Union. That will, of course, also take into account. So I can't say yes or no. We try to keep each other whole in this cabinet, but before we get into a huge debate like that, the first question is: where is the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u216	I have argued in the direction of Mr Dijkhoff that this is incredibly important for many women, that there is a great need for it, and that the general practitioners are now enthusiastic about this proposal, because they think that the misery can be avoided. I would even like to try to see whether it could not be in line with the wishes of Christian parties, because it would also be better to inform and perhaps prevent future unwanted pregnancies. I was concerned about the fact that the government declaration earlier denied that there were agreements on this issue. Later it turned out that it had been agreed to withdraw the bill. I hear the Prime Minister say: it is up to the coalition groups; they are friendly with each other, but they are not bound by a vote against. I think that's an extremely big profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u217	That summary is correct, but at the same time I would like to point out what Mr Dijkhoff said. Mr Dijkhoff said that we in this coalition are leaving each other whole. We also know from the formation and from the discussions here in the Chamber how sensitive this subject is. But I will leave it at that, because there is no legislative proposal at all. Let's wait and see and let's take it one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u218	Of course you leave each other whole. My only question is whether it is agreed to vote against coûte que coûte. The answer turns out to be no. Then we are going to table and defend the bill and then I hope that the more liberal parties and who knows the confessional parties will look at it with an open eye, because it is a great thing in the Netherlands that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u219	I would like to say honestly to Mr Asscher that Mr Dijkhoff is talking about this open-mindedness... I am only interpreting what my party colleague and the group chairman of the VVD said about this in the first term. He said: in this coalition and given all the sensitivities we await the bill first; we look at the advice of the Council of State, et cetera, et cetera, step by step. But if you also agree to leave each other alone, it is true that it is not automatic that this "so" is completely free. It doesn't work that way. You certainly have to take each other into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u220	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u221	I apologize for asking a question about this for the fourth time, but that is because I am genuinely trying to understand what the Prime Minister is actually saying. Look, there are sensitive issues that have been discussed and that have been included in the coalition agreement. That is what the prism approach is for. I call it completed life and embryos; we talked about that. This subject is not included in the coalition agreement. We later found out that there was an agreement about it, but it involves withdrawing the old bill for practical reasons. I think it would be nice to have clarity. If an agreement has been made on the right of women to receive the abortion pill from the general practitioner, then you should make that clear now. If that is not the case, then I understand everything there is about care, but then we can open that debate with the liberal parties. Something in between, frankly, I find a little strange. It's not like I'm saying this for nothing, like being pregnant: you are or aren't. So, there's a deal or there's no deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u222	I'm afraid this isn't such a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u223	Is it a free matter, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u224	"We have also worked with Mr. Asscher for five years. Then you also take account of each other, even though there are no hard agreements." I heard Mr Dijkhoff say that, and I understand that. No, there's no hard agreement that we can't, but there's a deal that we'll keep each other whole. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about the protection of vulnerable lives. The first question was: why did it become so self-evident to guide women who are unwantedly pregnant to an abortion clinic, while there is so little help and support in carrying out the pregnancy? In my view, it is absolutely not natural to refer women who are unintentionally pregnant to an abortion clinic. First of all, let me say that. That is not the policy of the cabinet either. If a woman is unintentionally pregnant, she must be able to make a well-balanced decision. The freedom of choice of women is paramount. Women who want to get help in making a choice. There is a good infrastructure in the Netherlands for support in unintended pregnancy, among other things the selection help calls. These choice aids can take place at an abortion clinic, but usually take place at a general practitioner and at the ggd, also in collaboration with Fiom or Siriz. On 11 September, the Secretary of State of VWS sent his plan of action on prevention and support of unintended (teen) pregnancy. That is why this cabinet period has been allocated EUR 53 million. Support for women in unintended pregnancies is given attention, on the one hand, by ensuring more sustainable funding and, on the other hand, by promoting that choice-help calls meet the same quality standards. In addition, the Kansrijke Start programme of the VWS Minister provides support for vulnerable parents when they decide to have the child. You were also informed on 11 September. Of course, the regular Wmo framework also applies, in which municipalities provide support for parents, including vulnerable and/or young parents. The follow-up question was about the advertising of suicide powder in the Netherlands and the fact that this has already made a young victim. At least, it was the second question in the context of medical-ethical subjects. Mr Van der Staaij said that it is high time to tighten up the Code of Criminal Law in order to combat it better. In response, I can report that, of course, suicide aid is punishable by the Code of Criminal Law. The state's attorney's office is maintaining this, too. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated an investigation into whether the acts of Cooperative Last Wil can be seen as aiding suicide. Moreover, it concluded that during the period during which the investigation had been conducted, it was not found that the cooperative had committed suicide aid or that it would otherwise have committed criminal offences. So we can see that the law on this issue is working in practice. To criminalise advertising in itself is not necessary in that sense, but it is also legally complicated because it affects freedom of expression. It is also extremely complex in practical terms to be able to enforce such a ban properly. The cabinet chooses to set thresholds in other ways. Firstly, agreements will be made with the chemical industry to stop selling to private individuals. In addition, supervisors will be extra alert to the sale of these substances. Finally, an alert network of the RIVM will monitor unwanted developments. That is my comprehensive response to the points raised by Mr Van der Staaij. Mr. Chairman. I come now to a few questions that didn't fit under the previous headings. The first is GroenLinks' question on the supervision of fraud and financial crime. Mr Klaver said that supervision is insufficient, and we can see that at ING: no one comes to court. What's with the class justice? Mr. Chairman. There's no class justice. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall, in each case, make an individual assessment of the manner in which the decision is most appropriate, taking into account the individual circumstances of the case. That's exactly what happened in this case. For the criminal prosecution of natural persons within ING, the Public Prosecutor's Office has not seen sufficient opportunities, despite extensive investigations. When prosecuting the legal person ING, a judge would only have had the opportunity to impose a fine. The transaction can also enforce certain cases that could not have been imposed by a court judgment, such as: 1. a large-scale set of compliance measures that ING is required to take and 2. monitoring the implementation of that compliance programme by DNB. The ability to enforce compliance measures and monitor their implementation has been crucial for the Public Prosecutor's Office to offer a transaction. In addition, a transaction in this case is an effective means of quickly setting a standard for all parties operating within the financial system. The SGP asked about the shopkeepers who don't want to be open on Sundays. At this point, I can report that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mona Keijzer, is currently working on a bill so that shopkeepers cannot be unilaterally forced to open at days and times when they do not want to. The plan of the cabinet is to send this law to the Chamber in the first half of 2019. The core of this is the compulsion. These may be situations in which a shopkeeper's association determines the shopping time, but a shopkeeper himself has not agreed. That narrows down the shopkeeper's freedom of choice. He would have to move his existing store if he didn't want to open on those days or times and that's undesirable. In the case referred to by Mr Van der Staaij, there seems to have been no compulsion in the opening of current agreements. Then it is up to the parties themselves to decide under what conditions they sign a contract. The cabinet considers it very important that this freedom of contract remains for parties. Then, President, Mrs Thieme spoke about EUR 75 million for young farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u225	Before you continue, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u226	About the forced opening of shops on Sundays. Agreed, it is a good thing that legislation should be put in place to deal with it in existing situations, including a wish from the Chamber. At the same time, as a result of the Holdijk motion in the First Chamber, it has been promised that there should not be standard contracts for new shopping centres that one must be open on Sundays. After all, you rule out a group of shopkeepers in advance. Can I assume that this old line of policy is still being followed, or at least can the legislative proposal address this issue? 'Cause we're still watching them show up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u227	The bill doesn't provide for that. The explanatory statement may name it, but that is not why we are making the legislative proposal. We want to prevent your ex-post from being forced to break an ongoing agreement under duress. If the parties are going to sign a contract and know in advance whether or not to be open, it is simply a freedom of contract, I think. I'll take a look at Mrs. Keijzer. Yeah, that's contract freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u228	Yeah, but what's contract freedom worth if you don't want to be a shopkeeper and you can't actually go to a mall because everywhere in the standard contracts you have to have your store open on Sundays? You'll rule out a large group of shopkeepers altogether. There is a serious problem there. It has been said earlier: we will see that, then we have to see that such a contract cannot be a standard contract, because that would put a group of shopkeepers at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u229	I am afraid that the views of the cabinet and the SGP are not entirely converging there. We agree on cases where you are forced to open a contract ex post, but not about being forced to draw up a contract in advance in such a way that it does not contain that coercion. It fits in with the normal freedom of contract to deal with it as a shopkeeper or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u230	I'm gonna try one more time. Freedom of contract means that everyone has the freedom to make agreements or not. Then it can never be designed so that in advance you exclude groups of shopkeepers by having such a provision as standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u231	In the end, that's how it works in free contract formation. If a mall says: yes, we have to go on Sundays and you can only go in if you cooperate, then that is a choice of that mall and a choice of the shopkeeper to participate or not. What you don't want is that you weren't open on Sundays and still forced to open on Sundays when you're already there. That is what Mrs Keijzer's cabinet bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u232	I would like to support Mr Van der Staaij in this and ask the Prime Minister to think again about this. Imagine if you think that on Sunday, for the reasons mentioned by Mr Van der Staaij, your shop cannot be open and that every shopping mall in the Netherlands could say that in theory, or many shopping mall in the Netherlands, we are always open on Sundays. They can be very good entrepreneurs, people who also earn a living, who have a family, and they would not be able to go anywhere. You are, of course, formally right that it is about freedom of contract, but what is the value of this freedom of contract, I repeat, Mr Van der Staaij, if today everyone wants to be open on Sundays? Once again, those who wish to do so are very much welcome, many people enjoy it, especially doing so. But not every shopkeeper wants that. And then maybe he wouldn't be able to go anywhere in any mall in the big city. That's never supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u233	I think that we will then be going very theoretically towards a kind of nationalisation of a problem which I do not think is very common in practice. I like to go on vacation on the Veluwe and there are villages and cities where as a shop you probably don't have customers during the week if you were open on Sundays. And there are also villages and cities where shopping malls are open on Sundays. So there is a lot of variation in that offer. We need to be careful we're gonna fix something that's not broken. This would have some kind of national effect, but it does not seem to me to happen soon, precisely for the reason I mention. In these municipalities almost everyone is closed on Sundays and that is also the use in such a municipality. Then you don't open on Sundays as a bicycle shop; yes, you probably have few customers on Mondays.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u234	I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. What I am saying is that it is happening all over the Netherlands, of course, is not true either, the Prime Minister is right, but I do not think he is right that this is just happening in certain cities. Could I ask him not to do so now, but at some point after these General Reviews to check how often that occurs in the Netherlands? I do not know how often it happens that entrepreneurs are forced or do not get a contract if they do not want to be open on Sundays. If that happens a few times in certain regions, you are right, but perhaps I am right or perhaps Van der Staaij is right. Let's look at the facts first. Are you willing to figure this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u235	I'm gonna see if I want to, but I'm gonna see if I can. Nodding Mona Keijzer brings me to the answer: yes, it is possible and we are doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u236	I'd like to go a little further, because I don't just want an overview to come up. You know my party as a great supporter of the freedom to shop on Sundays, if possible. As I said before, I think it was two years ago that I supported Van der Staaij and the SGP when it came to the choice of setting you up in shopping centres. It is not just about existing entrepreneurs, but it is also about contracts that exclude a certain group of entrepreneurs when they do not want to open on Sundays. So I don't just want an overview, I also want the Secretary of State to think about whether it's possible not to have this kind of effect; actually the reverse of that opening on Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u237	That seems complicated to me, to be honest. But Mrs Keijzer is so wise; what I immediately want to fight with Mr Pechtold, she says: no, we now have the promise to Mr Wilders and we simply put it next to it. Let's see what we can do. Wise! What's possible! Thank you! This helps! We still threatened to get into a crisis at the end. Then Mrs Thieme on subsidies for young farmers. That corporate takeover fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u238	It's almost impossible to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u239	Everyone is so excited about this commitment that they think: hi! Just a few more answers. The farm take-over fund for young farmers should enable young farmers to make a development step towards renewal and sustainability with corporate take-over. This will also be taken into account when establishing the criteria, in line with the new LNV vision, which has recently been presented. The Minister of LNV will shortly send her concrete proposals to the Chamber for this purpose. Then about the pig farmers. The Minister of LNV has set the following target for pig farming: a transition to a vital, robust, future-proof and sustainable pig farming chain, which is socially accepted and appreciated. It also focuses on the sustainability of the poultry and milk goat sector. This objective has been developed along two lines: a clean-up and termination track, for 120 million out of 200 million, and another 60 million for an innovation and sustainability track. In addition to the clean-up track, specifically aimed at the companies that cause the most odour nuisance, a sustainability track has also been chosen. This track aims at ensuring the sustainability of all pig farms through innovative barn and farming systems with a significant reduction and source-oriented prevention of harmful emissions. This will help to improve air quality. In this way, the transition to a sustainable pig farming chain in width is possible. The cabinet provides 40 million for innovation and sustainability for pig farming, 15 million for the sustainability of poultry farming and 5 million for the sustainability of dairy goat farming. We have now started to develop the innovation and sustainability trail. The Chamber will soon be informed of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u240	This gives a good overview of how many millions are not going to the agricultural sector, but that is only part of the total. About the EUR 75 million for young farmers, the Prime Minister says: the Minister for Agriculture is going to implement it further in accordance with the agricultural vision. I would very much like to know whether I can read that conditions relating to sustainability are indeed being imposed on the granting of such a corporate takeover subsidy. For example, in its agricultural vision, it states that it can no longer be the case that agriculture is putting biodiversity under pressure. Therefore, it cannot be the case that subsidies are being given to companies that are putting biodiversity under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u241	Let us wait for the proposals and hold the debate on them. Isn't that better? It's still to be worked out. We are listening very carefully to what is being said today, but just wait for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u242	I would very much like the Minister to comment on this in her letter on this matter. Then on the subsidy of at least EUR 60 million for pig farmers. There's a pot for warm clean-up. Companies have to leave overloaded areas in the Netherlands where people suffer from manure, fine dust and so on. Those farms are leaving, but a lobby has emerged from pig farming in order to maintain the right to produce manure, so not to remove those production rights from the market, whereas the Minister wanted to do so. I would very much like to know from the Prime Minister whether the cabinet is simply holding its back and not leaving production rights with the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u243	The answer is yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u244	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u245	Finally. There have been counter-budgets, which I am not going to deal with in detail. No further questions have been asked. In general, may I express my great appreciation for 50PLUS for drawing up a counter-budget? I know from my time as group chairman of an opposition party how much work that is. We had a slightly larger group then, but you have to do it with a few men and women. So that's very much appreciated. We do not agree with everything, but it is a calculated counter-budget. There are many elements in it that connect with what we do. I had a short contact with Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS. Of course, a number of choices are also made differently. May I also express that appreciation towards GroenLinks, the Socialist Party and the Labour Party? They also made alternative plans, which they also had passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. They can organize a little more thinking together, but these three parties had to agree. It worked. That is worrying in itself, but it is good news for democracy. My appreciation for that, too. There are clearly a number of choices that we have seen passed in the debate, such as extra money, on top of what this cabinet is already doing, towards the collective sector. This leads to a larger collective sector, which increases the collective burden burden. These parties make a number of choices which are highly respectable and expected, but which do not converge in all respects with government policy. But so our appreciation. Let us see how those counter-budgets in the Financial Reviews can be part of the shaping of thought. Mr President, I believe that I have answered all the questions raised in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u246	I would like to thank you for answering the first-term questions. That is indeed the end of the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u247	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u248	Madam President. With many things that Prime Minister Rutte has said today, I strongly disagree. However, I fully endorse his words and yours, Madam President. This concerns the justified horror of the terrible accident in Oss. What an incredible suffering, an unprecedented human tragedy that affects everyone! I would therefore like to endorse the words of sympathy you, Madam President, but also of the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Today and last Wednesday we talked about the state of our country. That debate once again showed that we also have two Dutch in addition to parallel societies. Prime Minister Rutte's land: Rutteland, where large companies that have already seen their profits double in recent years, are being used with billions of dollars. And the country of ordinary men and women: the Netherlands, the country of the people who have paid for the crisis, who have borne the burden increases, who have felt the cuts hard and who even now, economically better, will hardly benefit or not benefit at all. Therefore, the conclusion of that debate cannot be anything other than that we are governed by patrons, by folklores, with Prime Minister Rutte speaking. Patsers, because the bacon and matting of the multinational friends of Prime Minister Rutte, like his old employer Unilever, are more important than helping the ordinary Dutchman. If the cabinet were really about the people, then the billions that are now being spent on reducing the tax on profits and abolishing the dividend tax would have been used for lower rents or for eliminating the own risk in healthcare. They are also hotshots because, according to the figures of the Nibud, two earners with 2 tonnes are making more than €1,500 per year, while two earners with an income of about modal together are falling sharply. The friends of the VVD are well served, but the people who visit the Jumbo or the Aldi more often than the golf course are caught hard. Mr. Chairman. People's fakes, because no promise has been made about purchasing power. Then I'm talking about the Prime Minister again. Because not only the €1,000 Mark Rutte once promised proved to be a gross lie, but also his later promises about extra purchasing power proved to be fiction. And the Dutch now have to do it again with a promise, knowing that Rutte's promises are worthless, while it is certain that the fixed charges will continue to rise next year, the messages will become more expensive, the health insurance premium will rise and the energy bill will increase. And what is also certain is that there are billions going back to Africa, to asylum seekers, to benefits for non-Western immigrants. For years, our own people have been the victims of Prime Minister Rutte's giving away policy. Mr. Chairman. Then it may also come to this point that an elderly demented woman is found on the street at night, because there was no place for her and her husband together in a nursing home because the nursing homes no longer exist. I get goosebumps, sincere goosebumps from these kinds of messages. How is that possible? People who have made our country great, who have done nothing wrong at all, are almost dehumanized, while the cabinet is again spending billions on Africa, on asylum seekers, on benefits for non-Western immigrants, and I can call it another hundred times. I can't explain that to anyone. In fact, it's not for anyone to explain. Mr. Chairman. The money has to go back to the citizen. Therefore, next year, let us use more than 6 out of 8 billion budget surpluses to stop the VAT increase, not to increase health care and to reduce rents. That's what Dutch people need. Not alms, but extra air and purchasing power. Hence, Mr. Chairman, if I may, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to reverse the VAT increase on messages, to reduce rents by 15% and to freeze the healthcare premium for 2019 and to use the budget surplus to cover this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u249	Since last Wednesday, when we had the first term, I have been overwhelmed with an unprecedented number of responses from people from the country. From the Netherlands, not Rutteland. Fortunately, mostly supportive reactions, from people who recognized themselves in the image I sketched. People who see that the Netherlands is changing, and not exactly for the better. People who increasingly feel like a stranger in their own country. People who suffer from Islamization and the policy of open borders every day. They've been called cancer whore, or robbed, or even beaten up. They often don't dare to go for a walk in their own neighborhood at night. They're scared and wonder if their daughters will get home safely after a night out with friends. They're watching their neighborhood change. They fear terrorism and they often no longer recognize their old neighborhood and their own city because of all those headscarves on the street and in the shops. These people, Madam President, are not racists. It's not people who hate or discriminate against other people. They're ordinary people. It is the families who form the backbone of the Netherlands and who sense that Islam does not belong here in the Netherlands. They feel that, as an ordinary Dutchman, they are increasingly discriminated against. They can pay for anything. They can even wait longer for a social rental house because asylum seekers and status holders prevail. Still do. It is the people who are increasingly wondering whether their future and that of their children and grandchildren will be in a free Netherlands, in a recognizable Netherlands. They're the ordinary people of the Netherlands. The people who e-mailed me sometimes do not even vote for the PVV, but they do say: at least you say it. And: why are they all attacking you when you speak of Islam; if Islam is a problem, Mr. Wilders, why can't you say so? That's right, Mr. Chairman. Why shouldn't I be allowed to say that? Why is this debate talking about stricter penalties in problem areas, without dropping the word 'Islamic' once? Why is it proposed to set up a state committee on population growth, but should it not be about the influence of Islam? Why doesn't anyone dare name that big elephant in the Chamber? The problems in most of the problem areas are caused by the import of Islam. Population growth is and will only become more problematic because of the import of Islam. Why is that a taboo? Mr. Chairman. I'll keep saying it as long as I live: Islam and freedom don't go together. Islam is freedom. There is no freedom in any country in the world where the majority is Islamic. Nowhere. It's all about freedom. There is a causal link between Islam and freedom. Denying that is a threat to every society. I say that is why we must stop Islamization. Because this is our country and we are not going to let our country be destroyed. We're not gonna let our country take us away. We love the Netherlands too much for that. If we want our children and grandchildren and their children to remain free people, then we must fight Islam with all the democratic means we have. With the word. With motions. And, like now, with an initiative law. Despite the misconception, despite the ridicule, despite the maliciousness, despite the fact that the Prime Minister did so, the unread rejection of our proposals, despite the fact that almost everyone in Rutteland continues to speak what is crooked, I predict that common sense will eventually win and that the social and political forces that oppose the open borders, the mass immigration and the Islamisation will gain strength. Because the people are not crazy in this beautiful country! More and more people see that ideology, which threatens our freedom, must be stopped. Common sense will win. Freedom will win. The Netherlands will win Rutteland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u250	I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u251	Mr President, I also agree with what you and the Prime Minister have said about the terrible tragedy in Oss. A parent can't imagine anything worse than that, and fortunately he can't imagine what that pain must be like. All we can do is show compassion and give our own kids an extra hug. But it is a horror that we hope never to see again and which we hope we never have to think about again. (NL) Mr President, that is of course a bad thing to my input, in which I looked forward, looking forward to how we can make life in the Netherlands even more beautiful for our children and grandchildren in 2050. Something like this puts everything in a different perspective, but we will continue to work on it and also have to continue our work. So what are we supposed to do for that future? What choices should we make now? Because, unfortunately, progress is not self-evident. I don't have the arrogance that I know it all. I do have the ambition to come up with solutions, to make proposals and to work with everyone here on measures until we agree and until they work for the people in the Netherlands. Over the last few days, we have had hours of discussions on this subject. It's painful sometimes. Sometimes that wrings. Sometimes things are said here that people at home say: well, well, do they have to? But all in all, it stays beautiful in the end. It remains nice to see how you can exchange ideas here and see if you can come together. I would also like to thank colleagues for the often constructive discussions on education, innovation, a sustainable future and new security for working people. And yes, it also collided, especially with regard to integration. It is not the first time that it has bumped into this, or actually one specific measure, part of a wider package. And then I let it sand too, and then it can collide and then we can clash over the idea of someone else. But sometimes, Mr President, when it comes to such a subject, it is actually more important what is not being said so loudly, which the newspaper does not achieve because it does not necessarily collide because we are more in agreement on it. The problems in the neighbourhoods are widely recognised. That we need to do more to help people, I have heard support for that. I have noticed that there is broad dissatisfaction about where we stand with integration. That we should not watch when children start school with a language disadvantage that they will never catch up with for the rest of their lives, no one has denied that either. Many of us believe that girls and women should be free and equal throughout the Netherlands. That we must make it clear that the chances in the Netherlands should not depend on your last name or background, that is almost the whole Chamber. That we can do more with housing for a more diverse composition of the neighborhoods, I noticed that that even sparked enthusiasm. And the fact that there is more crime in such a neighborhood and that we can do more to protect the people of good will who live there and who suffer from it has not been contradicted either. Only the temporary heavier punishment of acts committed in such a district, in order to speed up the reduction of higher crime, has, my impression, not yet immediately stolen the hearts of all Members of Parliament. Anyway, eight out of nine. That could've been less! Mr President, as you can see, I count my blessings, albeit no longer organised. I am therefore pleased that the Cabinet is doing a more detailed study of the approach in countries facing similar problems in this area. I am confident that this can take us further in order to agree here on a targeted approach to guaranteeing our freedom to everyone throughout the Netherlands and promoting integration. I would also like to thank the cabinet for the answers and commitments in the field of technology in education, a European response to free trade, against populist protectionism and aggressive state capitalism, keeping pace with neighbouring countries in our climate objectives, helping people who want to contribute to a sustainable future and also to keep an eye on the acceptance and capacity of the costs associated with the energy transition. I also welcome the committee set up by Minister Koolmees to prepare ourselves for the future and to study how we can offer people new forms of security in addition to everything he already does. We look forward to the results with interest. Above all, we see them as a new starting point for moving forward with our thinking, putting forward ideas and acquiring majorities in order to take measures that make the Netherlands better. Finally, Mr President, the question that we have also discussed here but which we have not been able to answer: how many people will live in the Netherlands? Who are they? How did they get here? What does it mean for our policies, for our culture, for our country? How do we deal with migration, from refugees to labour migration within the EU? I am also pleased that such a difficult subject with many uncertainties and many risks in the debate has given rise to wide interest in the Chamber and that there is broad support for this further. That's why I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent forecasts show that the population can grow to 18, 19 or 20 million inhabitants by the middle of this century;]] [[Whereas the composition of the population also changes due to the ageing population, the differences between growth and shrinkage within the Netherlands and immigration;]] [[Whereas these demographic developments have important implications in many policy areas such as housing, land-use planning, infrastructure, energy supply, social security, care, education and integration;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to identify these developments in different scenarios and to present policy options in those different scenarios,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u252	Mr. Chairman. I said it on Wednesday and I'm doing it again: I don't know any country and no time in which I'd rather live than the present Netherlands. But I add one thing: I hope that in 2050 people do not desire back to now, but note that at that time they too live in the most beautiful Netherlands ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u253	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u254	Mr President, thank you. As far as I am concerned, both Mr Wilders and Mr Dijkhoff spoke on behalf of all of us when they talked about what happened in Oss. Because at such a moment we in the Netherlands are united in our grief. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It was a solid debate. I was not always satisfied with the Prime Minister's response, but I thank him. It was a debate that began with the dividend tax, an important split in society, but also here in Parliament. That debate cannot be separated from the problems in the public sector, the crisis that is there. This touches the heart of the political choice made by this cabinet: what do we spend our money on? Where's the balance? Do we choose to resolve the crisis in the public sector or do we choose to tackle the big business? I think the cabinet is making the wrong choice. I believe that it is still not convincing to argue why you should abolish the dividend tax, and I think that the Prime Minister is too easy to ignore the crisis in the public sector. He comes again with his "Oh, but we are doing very well in the Netherlands; we have great care and very good education!" That's right. Our concern is fantastic, our education may be even better, but why is that? This is because, despite all the cuts in recent years, despite all the difficulties, the people who worked there have continued to take over services from colleagues. But at some point it's up, people can't do it anymore and there's a crisis in the public sector and people are threatening to fall. That is not the time to be easy, to think: we are already here in the Netherlands. That is not the time to say: yes, it is a balance; you are doing something for the public sector, you are doing something for the big companies. We need to step up our efforts. When we talk about our education, it's about where our kids spend most of their time. And then we're talking about the fact that we're gonna be short 10,000 teachers. 10,000! If we do not intervene today, the problem will only get bigger and we will not be able to close that gap. To be honest, I find it really unheard of that the Prime Minister is on such a collision course when it comes to dividend taxation. We had a big debate. At the end of that debate, I tried to reach out to him. Let's see if there are alternatives to the locational climate. Yesterday, almost all opposition parties announced that they would come forward with a recovery bill. It's not over after this Prince's Day. It's not over after the vote in the First Chamber. This cabinet drives the dividend tax at high speed onto a wall. I want to tell the Prime Minister not to do it. Look at the alternatives. See how we can work together, so that there is broad support in society, but also here in the Chamber, to strengthen the location climate in the Netherlands. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the abolition of the dividend tax has not been sufficiently argued;]] [[Whereas a good locational environment is important for the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consider and inform the Chamber of alternative proposals for strengthening the locational environment prior to the examination of the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Kuzu, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u255	Mr. Chairman. I really hope the Prime Minister is prepared to reconsider the dividend tax. He is not done with this if he thinks this fall can be taken by the First and Second Chambers. We also had a strong debate on energy taxation. I'm from GroenLinks, should anyone have missed that. If anyone's in favour of interfering in the energy tax, it's me. But what this cabinet does is unwise in so many ways. It does not contribute to sustainability. It only increases people's energy bill. Then I hear people from the coalition, but also from the cabinet constantly talking about support. How can you maintain the support for climate action if you increase the energy tax? That won't be necessary. That is why I have tabled a motion on this point too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the 2019 Tax Plan reduces the energy tax reduction which will unnecessarily increase household energy bills;]] [[Whereas this measure has no positive effect on household energy consumption and affects disproportionately low incomes;]] [[calls on the Government to remove this reduction in the energy tax reduction and to find funding for this measure in raising tariffs and to come forward with a proposal for the treatment of the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu and Mr Thieme.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u256	This motion is important because it removes the pressure from households and ultimately puts more pressure on companies. That's an honest slider. This will ensure that the energy bill will also remain affordable for low incomes. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the public sector, we are asking for an additional 2 billion by 2019. We get zero from this Prime Minister for that. When it came to social services, I thought there was an opening. There's something there. That is where the cabinet is prepared to see how we can take care of young people when they turn 18 and are still in trouble. I asked the Prime Minister: are we going to look at the budget needed for this? Because it may just be that it needs to be stretched out and that extra money is needed. He was very clear about that at the time: no. That's why I'm glad I can table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 1 of the Youth Act lays down that young people aged 18 to 23 continue to be eligible for youth assistance where this is necessary for them;]] [[noting that in practice youth aid often stops as soon as a young person has reached the age of 18, even if the demand for aid is unabated;]] [[Whereas care and support should always focus on what a young person needs;]] [[Whereas the government is preparing a cabinet response to the opinion on age limits of the Health and Society Council;]] [[calls on the Government to address specifically in this response the question of what municipalities need in order to fulfil the statutory obligations to provide youth assistance for up to 23 years and to inform the Court of Justice of the budgetary consequences thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u257	Mr. Chairman. Then yesterday we had no, it was Wednesday a debate on white-collar crime, on tackling bankers, on money laundering and on how people get away with it. I had a big debate with Mr Dijkhoff on this and I said: do not just come up with plans for the bottom of society, we must clean the stairs from above. Mr Dijkhoff interrupted me and said: that is what I want. I'm glad. Because tackling banks shouldn't be something from the left, but from all of us here. Just when they cross the line, you have to deal with them. If they go over the target, go crooked... I think I should talk about Tuvalu. If they go too far, they need to be dealt with. This is important because otherwise people could lose faith in democracy. I am glad to be able to table a motion on this with Mr Dijkhoff. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that crimes committed by financial institutions are dealt with, inter alia, by transactions, so that companies cannot avoid their responsibility for crimes;]] [[considers that the sense of justice would be seriously damaged if, after the conclusion of such a transaction, criminal acts of individuals would subsequently go unpunished;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of the nature and extent of transactions in the financial sector, to consider whether improvements are possible and to inform the Court within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u258	Mr President, I come to a conclusion. We have had a strong debate and it may be clear that our opposition to this dividend tax will continue, even after this autumn. I also hope that I have been able to make it clear to this cabinet that we are satisfied with the steps that are being taken now when it comes to its greening agenda. Of course, it can always be more ambitious, it can always be faster and it can always be better, but we welcome the steps that are being taken there. My group is therefore very willing to see how we can work together with this cabinet to make this greening agenda possible. Because the ambitions are there and that's good. The objectives are there. I thought the Prime Minister was well defending himself against the CDA Group. But here it comes. Now you're gonna have to fill it out. Now the concrete measures must come, and that will also hurt. We are very willing to help the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u259	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by joining the words of sympathy expressed by my fellow Members with the terrible event in Oss, an accident which is also in our minds today. We have had two long days of debate, one on time and the other on time. In terms of tone, this debate won the happy day before yesterday's debate. In my first term, I asked what our country will look like in 20 years' time. What does our care look like and how do we retire? How many people do we have and what kind of society do we live in? Today's choices determine the society of later. We stand for great choices, choices that are determined, among other things, by the size and composition of the population. We must now see the challenges ahead. I have therefore signed Mr Dijkhoff's motion on an investigation into the different scenarios and policy options. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has promised to come up with a vision of the future of care, in relation to growth and shrinkage in different parts of the Netherlands. We look forward to that investigation with interest. At least what we have to do for the future is build. A roof above your head is a fundamental right, but it is becoming less and less obvious that young people can find a home. We've got to get construction production up. I spoke about this in my first term, and I have the next motion in this regard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas living is a fundamental social right;]] [[noting that there is a significant housing shortage now and in the future;]] [[noting that co-governments want to commit themselves to the construction plan, but not always revealing what is being built in the region where and when;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to rapidly encourage regional parties to adopt a joint approach that accelerates the construction process in the short term, if necessary by setting up a government commissioner;]] [[calls on the Government to enforce, if possible, a solution to the problem of housing shortages, at least crucial construction projects which are linked to a lack of administrative regional agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Pechtold, Dijkhoff and Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u261	Mr President, there has been a lot of talk in recent weeks and days about the so-called broad offensive to help people with disabilities to work. To this end, maintaining the expertise and infrastructure of the SW sector is of great importance. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. I have three motions in total. I believe that I have not tabled so many motions in one debate throughout my political career, but they are not so small. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the placement of people in shelter is too slow and insufficient people with a distance from the labour market are entering employment;]] [[noting that SW companies traditionally have expertise in the field of wage measurement and the supervision and posting of people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas several parties, including the ESC, have given opinions on the future of the SW sector;]] [[believes that people with disabilities should be able to work as inclusive as possible and that existing expertise and infrastructure should not be discarded;]] [[calls on the Government, taking into account existing opinions, to develop within the so-called "wide offensive" in which the infrastructure and knowledge of the SW sector have a clear place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Segers and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u262	Mr President, I have also talked about the great challenge we all have to combat climate change. The Netherlands is taking ambitious steps. But we can only do that effectively with our neighbors. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister's answer does not reassure me yet, because the ambition to bring these countries with us must be raised. We can make 49%, we can make 55%, but it has to be together. An alleyway would mean solving the problems of other countries. And Europe still has a lot to do, and it is not always fast. The Prime Minister is right to say that he cannot always be transparent about what other countries are doing. I do say that the Netherlands is apparently a little more transparent than neighbouring countries when it comes to achieving the climate targets. In any case, as far as I can speak to those other countries through the Prime Minister: is it not that difficult to be transparent about this? But if we can coordinate measures with other countries, that means that we can also go much further in taking our own measures because we can then coordinate them with other countries. Let me give you an example of a common minimum price for CO. In particular, in order to ensure that we find out what other countries are going to do and we can do this together, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is pursuing ambitious targets for CO savings in 2030;]] [[whereas the Netherlands in Europe calls for a 55% reduction in emissions and otherwise aims at a leading group of like-minded people to ensure that our measures are effective and avoid competitive disadvantages;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to report to the Chamber every six months on the state of play of the EU's 2030 climate target;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to report on a six-monthly basis which like-minded Northwest European countries are willing or unwilling to follow the Dutch CO reduction ambition in a leading group;]] [[invites the Government to submit the first report to the Chamber at the latest before the budget procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u263	Mr Pechtold did not, by the way, see in his signature that there was another write error in the original text of the motion, because once the word "that" was missing. But that's what I put in there. I hope his signature still stands. I see that's the case. Good. Finally, Mr President. The budget for 2019 is a step towards the jubilee year 2039 that I planned in the first term. I'd say start with the preparations. With this budget we are putting a better future in the ground. It is up to us to make the right choices now and in the coming year for the next twenty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u264	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u265	Mr. Chairman. I did my best today, but I did it with abdominal pain. When I was in this place on Wednesday, I talked about my proud city of Oss. Who in this Chamber could have imagined that only a few hours later that same city would be affected by such incredible grief? 4 years, 4 years, 6 years and 8 years. Those are the ages of the children who were abruptly deprived of their future plans and dreams on Thursday morning. Oss is crying. The sadness of parents, grandpas, grandmothers, brothers, sisters and classmates is felt by everyone. Classmates of the four deceased children of primary school De Korenaer, the school around my corner. Osses seek each other out, seek comfort and seek support. All of Oss has a stomachache, and I think it's gonna take a while. I heard many of you say that when you came home yesterday, you held your children just a little longer. That's nice. Holding each other is just what we can do now. I wish all those involved very much strength. Mr President, with abdominal pain, I will continue where we have remained in this debate: the General Reviews in which we talk about the future of our country. We talked for a long time about abolishing the dividend tax. The anger about that is great, and rightly so. For years, society was told that there was as little as possible. For years, people were told that it was a crisis. And now it's better, but six out of ten people say they don't even know the crisis is over. But the foreign shareholders stand in line to receive the billions of gifts. And why? No one who gets it, no one who can explain it. Also today we witnessed yet another episode of a dividend debacle already a year ago. No matter how hard the Prime Minister explains that we have to trust his fibers, the opposition to this billion-dollar gift is growing as quickly as confidence in this cabinet is falling. But I predict you, this won't last. Sooner or later, you will choke on one of those melons, simply because justice will always win cynicism. Mr. Chairman. I also found it rather distressing to see: the ease with which the Prime Minister presents billions to foreign shareholders and the effort that it then takes to recognise the major problems in the public sector. The people who work day in, day out really know what they're talking about. They say the public sector is on fire. But according to the Prime Minister, that's all not so bad. Too little recognition of the damage done by the tens of billions saved. Still the sacred belief that the market makes everything better. And every day the teachers, the care workers, the agents, the postmen and all the others notice the consequences: too few colleagues, too high workload, a craziing bureaucracy and a huge executive power. In the meantime, more and more people are wondering: which way does society go, is the government still there as guardian of our general interest? Mr. Chairman. It's time to choose justice. In doing so, we will engage in any cooperation that brings it closer. On Wednesday I mentioned the temporary connection with Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW. Because when so many people with disabilities are at home when they really want to work, something really goes wrong. Isn't it a question of civilisation to make sure these people get to work too? That is why today I made the call with Hans de Boer, because I have the impression that that will greatly increase my chances with the Prime Minister in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent SCP research has shown a significant reduction in job opportunities for people with disabilities following the introduction of the Participation Act;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[calls on the government, in line with the ESC's assessment, to draw up a plan for a new social employment service,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u266	Mr. Chairman. After years of social decline, it is time to fight progress. And we shall do so, both inside and outside this Chamber. For a country where the welders, construction workers and nurses can stop working in time. A country where the policemen, the postmen and the teachers get a decent wage and a lower workload. A country where the youth care workers can simply give children the care they need. A country where permanent uncertainty has not become the new normal for our young people. A country where pollution accounts for where it belongs, namely the polluters. A country where we not only target shareholders, but where we choose for the common good. Mr. Chairman. I know that some people in this Chamber think it all sounds very radical, but I think it is only normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u267	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u268	Madam President, you and the Prime Minister have spoken with great sympathy about the victims and their families in Oss. That is very much appreciated by my group. We wholeheartedly support this. Mr. Chairman. Such a day of rest is sometimes quite pleasant between the General Reviews. Perhaps we should evaluate it in order to send the Prime Minister abroad in between. Then he can update the Buma/Pechtold motion every year on that day. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it wasn't a real day of rest, especially for the Prime Minister, because he was indeed in Salzburg yesterday, where the Brexit was scheduled. But the Brexit is not the only threat to Europe right now. Orbán, too, is seriously calling for our attention. The situations in England and Hungary are crucial for our economy and our values in the European Union. That is why I expect this Prime Minister not only to keep the Chamber well informed on both dossiers, but also to move both dossiers in the right direction and not to hide behind easy majorities or large countries. I expect a self-conscious attitude with our own pro-European story. Another European challenge is the climate crisis. A great deal has been said about this in recent days and has been well discussed. The Prime Minister is clear about the commitment to the 55% reduction of CO, together with the countries around us, but D66 wants to be able to follow the agreements and developments that are taking place in Europe. The Prime Minister seems to be in a position to do so, but he may need a second term to hide behind the broad shoulders of France. That is why we have just tabled a motion with Mr Buma. Mr. Chairman. On Wednesday I also raised some other points in my first term contribution, such as the importance of independent journalism. I've been talking to the Prime Minister about it. It was also emphasised by him, but the vision of the future remains uncertain. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to contribute to a robust public service broadcasting system to ensure independent and high quality media in a rapidly changing international environment;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands Public Broadcasting (NPO) is likely to face a lower budget in the coming years due to disappointing Star revenue;]] [[Whereas it is important for the NPO to draw up a plan first of all on how to cope with the disappointing advertising revenue in the coming years and how to contribute to the recovery of the General Media Reserve, in a way that minimises the risk of programming, in particular the journalistic core task, and is transparent about the costs of core tasks, genre, organisation and external hiring;]] [[whereas these developments call for a fundamental reflection on future-proof public service broadcasting;]] [[Calls on the Government, after the NPO has presented a plan that takes into account the above considerations, to come forward with a short-term proposal to compensate for the disappointing advertising revenue for 2019 up to a maximum of 40 million euros and to inform the Court of Auditors of this including budgetary coverage prior to the treatment of the Media budget;]] [[calls on the Government to move towards the new concession period, in consultation with interested parties, towards a proposal for a future-proof public broadcasting system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Segers, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u269	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I was talking about the accessibility of the government. In what way and what do they communicate, and how can they involve more people? One of the possibilities I see for this is communicating in understandable language. The Prime Minister has already indicated that this is being widely taken up, but together with my colleagues Segers and Buma I would like to do so in an even more concrete proposal. That's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that public communication should be understandable and accessible to all;]] [[whereas the State now maintains B1 level for the websites, but not for documents;]] [[calls on the government to publish important documents, such as the state budget, in a version in comprehensible language, e.g. at 2F language level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Segers and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u270	I wish the Cabinet every success in explaining in understandable language B1 and 2F. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has been going on for a year and is getting pretty steamy. Much remains to be done; we have heard that these days. A lot of things come back to the budgets. I trust that at least my group colleagues will follow this cabinet closely. In a year of European elections in which nationalist and populist parties will defy us with hollow chatter, this is an assignment for the entire cabinet: show that you are there for all Dutch people. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Deliver good results and above all remain ambitious. Whether it's our climate, Europe or the opportunities for every child, we'll have to do it together for a next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u271	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u272	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that you, the Prime Minister and the other colleagues spoke very nicely about yesterday's terrible events, which I very much welcome. Mr. Chairman. This debate focused on the question of whether this coalition would be able to listen and adjust its course. I started not only atonement-mindedly, but also very optimistic, very optimistic. That is because, when we were sitting in that warm Knight's Room, our king at the end of the throne address referred to the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck cabinet, which actually started the job without a majority. I looked around and thought: this is a sensation, what is happening here; this is an announcement. I thought something big is gonna happen here. Because we all know what that actually meant. Following the mistake of Troelstra, the failed revolution, the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck cabinet unanimously led the first Labour Act through our Chamber 99 years ago. That was some kind of Law work and security. In it were the eight-hour working day and the 45-hour working week. When that law was passed, the sensation was so great that the socialists, our left-wing profession, stood up and supported the Eight-hour march. This led to a reaction from the right, the predecessors of Buma. They stood up and hijacked the Wilhelmus. How beautiful is that? They did that because they were proud that the policy was adjusted in socialist, progressive direction. That was also necessary, because there were needs among the people. It wasn't the only thing they did. Improvements were made in pensions, old age provision. There was better housing. There was better education. It was this cabinet that first appointed a Minister of Education. Ruijs de Beerenbrouck used to do the Home Office. Mr. Chairman. That prime minister was called "the red jonker." You know, when I heard this Prime Minister today, a slight disappointment took hold of me. No red jonker, a routine Rutte, who slashed the abyss of arrogance when he showed the most passion in the debate for defending what he himself called "a bizarre measure." That was true; I am talking about abolishing the dividend tax. There's still one person who believes in that; he's sitting there. And we are still expected to agree to this under threat from shareholders' meetings; EUR 2 billion. Mr. Chairman. Our commitment has been, is and continues to be to adjust policy to a more cheerful, positive and optimistic picture, because even now there are needs that are not seen. Even now there are children who come to school without breakfast. Even now there are teachers who want nothing more than to give good education but who are threatened with stress, under pressure. Even now there are people who can't find an affordable nice home. That's what we're supposed to be paying attention to. That's what our money's supposed to be spent on. If we do that and if we make sure that every human being is certain of his existence, then there will be room for progress. That's when optimism comes. Then we dare to take action again, I would say in the direction of this cabinet. When I see how it was reacted, not only to the proposals of the Labour Party but also to proposals by Jesse Klaver, Lilian Marijnissen and other colleagues who went in that direction, Geert Wilders made an appealing argument on how purchasing power can be better distributed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. I don't understand that choice. I think that's un-Dutch. I've experienced for myself that plans will be better if you work with the opposition. I didn't notice. It may have been too difficult and the four of you are not ready, but it has to be done. Those plans need to be better, because what we are seeing now is a coalition holding each other but marching on with the seventy-six to the size of the stock exchanges in that dead-end alley. But it's not too late. I have a number of motions. The first motion is about being sure of a good teacher. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each child should be able to count on a good teacher for the class;]] [[noting that a quarter of primary schools have a shortage of teachers;]] [[considers that the work of teachers in primary and secondary education is equally important;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to align wages in primary education with wages in secondary education in the long term and to take a next step in 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that there is a return to housing shortage;]] [[Whereas the possibility of deduction has been exhausted in the landlord levy;]] [[Whereas this will make it possible to invest less in shrinking areas and in affordable rentals;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to maintain investment in affordable housing and shrinking areas and to inform the House of Representatives about this for the budget treatment of Living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that you should be able to be sure of an affordable home;]] [[noting that more and more tenants are barely able to make ends meet and have payment problems;]] [[calls on the government to reconsider the austerity of the rent allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that incapacity for work can happen to anyone;]] [[believes that you should be able to count on a decent safety net;]] [[calls on the government to remove the 250 million cuts on disabled people and to provide better measures in consultation with the social partners and the parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that apprenticeships currently provide a place for more than 100,000 MBO students;]] [[Whereas apprenticeships can make a lifelong difference to the lives of young people who can learn and work as a mechanic, nurse or welder;]] [[Whereas employers, MBOs and society are hard hit when these types of apprenticeships disappear;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from reducing apprenticeships of 19.5 million, which could cost tens of thousands of jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to increase OCW's budget by 19.5 million and to seek cover for it and to return to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuzu and Mr Thieme.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-21]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-22]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuzu, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Wilders, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u273	On that last motion, I am quite optimistic. That is really important for the young people that we are talking about. On these other motions, I would like to give the coalition the following. They help each and every one of us. I am going to follow the votes very closely. It would be wonderful if we could now start working together to make a more positive, optimistic story: more money to the people, less to the multinationals. I realize the coalition can win any vote. At the same time, however, it can lose any support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u274	Here's what I remember. Mrs Thieme and I sat in the back, in the back, with two seats and me with three seats. It was my first budget treatment in the House of Representatives. There was then a cabinet of CDA, PvdA and Christian Union. We'd had those two days back then. The voting lists were distributed to the PvdA Group. That happened very quickly. I remember what was at the top, because we were wrong: "Anything wrong." This was true of 60 opposition motions, motions that had worked hard and which had tried to get the cabinet to do something. You yourself have already established that the motions you are making today are not. And maybe there's more in the barrel. But I do appeal to Mr Asscher. "Outstretched hands" and "constructive," that's not only when it has to be enforced with seats. You're talking about education. In the previous period it was 650 million: it was not the PvdA and it was crisis time, but it came only when you needed the seats of others. And then there's the landlord's tax. I remember it was 2.1 billion. Then came the constructives and it became 1.7 billion. And today it's falling further. So as regards housing for the people who really need a social housing, we also arranged it. So I'd like to keep that symbolism of that outstretched hand, but as far as I'm concerned never again under the guidance of the PvdA, that of "anything against."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u275	Thank you for that. My beginning was different. I've been silent next to the Prime Minister for two days. Thank you, therefore, to all the rulers who will soon have to be taken out of their seats. That wasn't easy either. Then I saw that with the General Reviews it became a great chaos. We had to listen to Pechtold, to Slob then and to Van der Staaij. We had quite a problem with that at the time. But I still think the plans have improved. I think we should admit that as well. If the traumas of your past would now prevent you from voting for good proposals, for example for education, then I would like to apologize in all keys: we have done all kinds of things wrong with each other. But we do have a new moment now. I think many of your members think in their hearts: I would rather spend it on housing and education than on that weird dividend tax. My appeal would therefore be: do not regret it later, but vote well now. Then we'll all do something beautiful tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u276	It was more serious anyway. I didn't get anything out of trauma. Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here after 12 years. But it is serious, also because of the credibility of large middle parties, who take turns taking responsibility. Take a point like education. In recent years I have really tried that with the PvdA, because I think we are really not different in that. But in your role as Deputy Prime Minister, you agreed to a raise. Now there is an increase of 8.5% and there are bonuses, which lead to the teachers in primary education actually getting something. And then almost 0.5 billion goes towards reducing the workload, which can reduce classes, there are janitors and so on. The ambitions here are always unbelievable. But if you come out of a crisis, if the Council of State says that spending 6 billion is actually too much and economists say so and if the opposition always calls that it is too little........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Again, that outstretched hand shouldn't come from one side. But much more importantly, I think we're credible about education, renting and that sort of thing. I found you on the edge today and Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u277	Thanks for the review. I don't have much of a message for that, because I'm not here to get a review from you, but to achieve things. I think we have that in common. I'm really glad there's extra money for the teachers. I am extremely pleased that there is extra money to fight the workload. It's $30,000 per school. That's half a FTE to fight the workload. They do beautiful things with that. Is that how it's solved? We all know that's not true. On that Erasmus bridge, Jesse Klaver was also told stories, not greedy, that they had to earn more. I've been disturbed by the VVD movie, where the question was asked: do teachers have to earn more? I will not repeat a litany in the direction of Mr Dijkhoff, but I thought that was a nasty question. Those teachers aren't standing up for themselves, they're standing up for our kids. They realize that if that wage gap persists, there will be no side-influxers. So there's more to it. Yeah, there's more ambition. I didn't think I'd have to say that to you. That ambition is needed. Let's find each other on that. Let's stick out our hands, whatever, and let's just do it. I think it's possible at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u278	Mr President, one last time. In the previous period, the cabinet had to cut incredibly much with a PvdA minister for five years. There has been one budget that has not been cut, and that was Education. I have sometimes said in the previous period: I think there are pins in the chair of the Minister for Education. In fact, when you needed our seats, it turned out that there was an additional 650 million to go. It was the time when the PvdA called here in the Chamber: next time we're going to bring 10 billion more to education. Big plans were presented. And when it came to it, you didn't write in your election program that money had to go to the teachers. That's what you came up with when you were a missionary and you were being negotiated. And it was granted to you. Do you know why? Because I don't need a coalition, opposition, missionary or whatever to take care of education. But now you're going back into the footage that it's on fire and you're hearing stories. For five years you had a Minister of Education who could have done something about it and who could have done it thanks to the opposition, the outstretched hand on our part. And again, there's a lot more money going there now. Two billion didn't even have the PvdA in its election program. It is now going there in many areas of education. Once again, if you are going to tell us this on 2 October, I have also said it to Mrs Marijnissen, and I am happy to be among them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u279	I really do not understand why Mr Pechtold is reacting that way. Firstly, we were the only ones in our electoral programme to have money for salaries in primary and secondary education: both 400 million. Secondly, we had not set the wage gap. That was then done by the teachers themselves, PO in action. I support that. Thirdly, we had a large amount of education in the election programme, but stop talking about those election programmes. The numbers are much better now than they were then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u280	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u281	Mr Rutte is also homesick about those old days, like Mr Pechtold, I can tell. He's defending a coalition now. It'll take some getting used to. I was disturbed by that pedantic tone towards Mrs Marijnissen yesterday when you said: I'll go to those demonstrations and then I'll tell you what the facts are. I'm counting on you to be here. I'll tell you exactly what we'll do. We're going to tell you whether or not more ambition is needed. And then I'm sure you'll find in your heart that it is. I'd really like to do the invitation here: stop that... How many compliments do you want to have on the previous period? Yeah, it was thanks to D66 that extra money came for education. How about now, as D66 and PvdA, we make sure we break that pay gap? Wouldn't that be a better outcome than this whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u282	The total responsibility, which Mr Asscher also feels, means that you do not only do this in primary education, but that now the MBO also gets 7% in the collective agreement and that we also take into account what happens in the police. That's where 8% goes, too. We must also take into account what is happening in the rest of society. As a politician, we should not call for something to be added to the private sector, although we all agree with a 5% wage requirement. It's about how easy it is sometimes to surf on feelings of groups and pretend it's always too little. I like to work together, I like to be at any manifestation. I myself have had to change roles a few times during the years I've been here, but I think it should be credible. In the field of education, D66, PvdA and many parties are on the content side by side, but it's about whether you take the other person's measure each time that it's too little, or that you show together that you're taking important steps. We have, we will, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u283	I'll keep that in mind: we shouldn't be taking each other's best shots. That's great. Look, I don't think what those teachers are talking about are feelings. I think they are deeply concerned about their profession and the future of the children. When a director like that says to me, "we're wasting our future," I take that seriously. I'm really not that easy to say "it's because of that or that" or "we're gonna fix that." I didn't argue that at all here. I just said that if you say that you have to walk into that, like Van der Staaij once did with the Defense Department, you know that for the next few years you will build up the possibility that, for example, a D66 minister, together with Slob, can negotiate it properly. I do not understand very well why this is the case, quite the contrary. Perhaps I would have hoped that you would be able to participate. But I am an optimistic man and this is not the last debate we have. There is so much to improve on this budget, and you will hear more from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u284	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u285	Madam President. When we see Oss' grief, we feel sorry for him. Thank you for your fine words and also for the words of the Prime Minister. Then we all feel like father, mother, brother or sister, grandpa and grandma, uncle, aunt. In any case, our thoughts and prayers are with the people who are very sad in Oss. Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. In my first-term contribution, I drew attention to bridging gaps in our society. "Our economy can still be so good, if many people are left behind, society will ultimately be the victim." That is a sentence directly from the coalition agreement. This cabinet has planned to reduce contradictions and tackle gaps. I'll keep reminding the Cabinet of that mission. That is why it is important that we combat segregation. We do that by giving space to groups that never meet, to bring them together. This is already happening on church square and sports field. Where we started on Wednesday with Mr Dijkhoff's plan, there we ended with 'elevation', a very nice concept, and a glowing defense of the Prime Minister of social service, also for the use of that means to bring people together. Thank you for that. This is a hopeful initiative that helps to bring young people from different parts of the population into contact with each other and others. And that will make that society better. Also the NPO, the public service broadcaster, is one of those squares where people meet. In order to keep this vital, I have wholeheartedly signed Mr Pechtold's motion. For a strong society, it is also important that we continue to work on ownership and control; that people really have control over public services, their living environment, energy supply and therefore also broadcasters. The commitments in this area are important and I thank the Prime Minister for that. The Christian Union believes that the government should continue to give ample employment to these initiatives. Where society can do better than the government or the market, we need to make citizens' initiatives easier and even encourage them. To underline that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas citizens want to have control and involvement in key issues in their own living and living environments, such as livingability, care, housing, energy, sustainability and food, through citizens' initiatives and cooperatives;]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement allows for the right to challenge and experiments with the right to take over for the implementation of collective provisions;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber, before the end of this year, an impact of the right-to-challenge regime and the experiment for the right to take over;]] [[calls on the Government to take concrete measures, in consultation with municipalities, to promote citizens' initiatives in relation to these issues and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u286	Madam President. In my contribution on Wednesday, I also looked at the group of young people who are lagging behind, young people who are in debt or with fewer job opportunities than the rest, young people in poverty. We must not give up this group, but we must support it. In view of that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional attention should be paid to supporting vulnerable people in the field of poverty and debt relief;]] [[Whereas there is a need for an additional impetus for the cooperation of parties working to combat child poverty;]] [[Whereas voluntary organisations play an important role in debt relief;]] [[Whereas having a sustainable job can make an important contribution to reducing poverty and debt;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide EUR 25 million once in 2018 to support vulnerable people, including EUR 4 million to combat child poverty, EUR 4 million to provide services by debt voluntary organisations and EUR 17 million to create job opportunities for vulnerable young people from secondary special education and practical education;]] [[calls on the Government to find cover for this by making use, in the first instance, of the underrealisation of the sector plans, on which the Court was informed in the latest progress letter, and of other policy support budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u287	Madam President. A strong society is characterized by control and ownership, by looking after each other and taking responsibility for your environment. The same applies to the climate. There is now an ambitious climate law, widely signed. An outstretched hand, over and over. Now we have to talk about an ambitious climate agreement, in which our country shows that we are taking the challenges that are coming to us seriously. We're gonna have to work hard on that. I would like to ask and encourage the Prime Minister to continue to lead Europe and to include other countries in it. Madam President. I also asked the Prime Minister about the situation on Lesbos and the other Greek islands. I do not know whether it was my question or his commitment at yesterday's European summit, but tonight the news came that Greece is taking action. That is good news, but the question is how we can continue to assist against degrading situations on Lesbos and the other islands. Madam President, all the way to the end. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet, who we had here for two days. I wish them every success in the budgetary discussions, as well as a great deal of blessing in their work in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u288	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u289	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by expressing our deepest sympathy to the parents, brothers, sisters, grandparents and grandmothers, the engineer and all the Ossians. We wish them a great deal of strength and love. Dramatic events like this also show the relative nature of the topics we are discussing today. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has stated once again that he does not wish to return his bizarre intention to give a billion-dollar gift to foreign shareholders of multinationals. No learning ability, no remorse of conscience, no reason. Rutte III presents us with imaginary dangers which would require further neo-liberalisation of our tax system. Fit facts policy, forced by a coalition discipline that leaves no room for common sense. Mr President, it is a testament of political inability that, after six years of demanding heavy financial sacrifices from citizens, the cabinet gives in to the empty threats of multinationals and gives them the keys of the treasury without discussion. A cabinet for people, animals and nature, a cabinet of social justice had stood firm. If not Rutte III, a cabinet of, for and by multinationals. The cabinet is very different in terms of the real dangers that threaten us, the dangers of climate change, loss of biodiversity, climate refugees, poverty and growing inequalities in the world. Instead of taking the path towards a radical change in the system, which is necessary according to experts, the cabinet moves forward and shifts. Instead of dreaming about a real circular economy and promoting the Netherlands from the dirty little boy of the class to a sustainability example for the rest of the world, the cabinet is being held hostage by vested interests of multinationals, of the agricultural lobby, by shifting the development of climate targets to climate tables where business is fully represented, Shell and the agricultural lobby, so that you as a citizen know only one thing for sure: we should pay for the costs if they are not already passed on to our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Mr. Chairman. We would have preferred that this cabinet had taken the lead in climate policy, that it had not passed on its decisions to short-term thinkers who have no interest in it, and that it had not shifted its costs to future generations. We would have preferred the fine words that D66 and the Christian Union devoted to climate during this debate to be at the heart of climate policy, as also summarised in the Terlouw manifesto. It wasn't meant to be. In order to help the cabinet reduce the ecological damage of fixation on growth, growth and growth, and at least a little bit to green the tainted image of this cabinet, I have three motions. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet frees EUR 75 million to make it easier for young farmers to take over a business and invest in its future resilience. At least, it seems so. Given the sustainability profile of agriculture, these public investments in agriculture cannot be separated from a necessary sustainability impact at this time. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the government is allocating EUR 75 million to a fund for the acquisition of holdings for young farmers;]] [[Whereas the cabinet states that agriculture must no longer put pressure on biodiversity;]] [[calls on the Government to link to the allocation of funds from the farm acquisition fund for agriculture the condition that the holding to be taken over is a form of agriculture that does not put biodiversity under pressure or is switched to this type of agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u290	Mr. Chairman. One of the great missed opportunities of this cabinet is that the increase in VAT has not been used to make sustainable consumption cheaper and unsustainable consumption more expensive. By not making this distinction, this is a common burden burden for citizens, while the polluter pays principle should be central. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a general increase in VAT does not reflect the polluter pays principle;]] [[noting that meat is the most environmentally polluting and climate-unfriendly part of our food package;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the general increase in the VAT rate and instead to increase VAT on meat and dairy products and to reduce it on fruit and vegetables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u291	Mr. Chairman. Because our agricultural system has been focused for decades on production at the lowest possible cost, resulting in economies of scale and intensification, the bio-industry, we are in a situation where the government must allocate EUR 200 million of tax money for a warm clean-up of pig farming in overstretched areas. It is now clear from the initial development of this plan that the Minister for Agriculture intends to spend at least 60 million on new subsidies for pig farming. Reconciliation is quite another thing than subsidising. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 200 million has been earmarked in the government agreement for a warm clean-up of pig farming in assisted areas;]] [[Considering that the Minister of LNV intends to spend only EUR 120 million on the actual purchase of pig farmers (and thus reducing the number of pigs) and to spend at least EUR 60 million on new subsidies for pig farming;]] [[calls on the Government to devote the full budget reserved for the warm recovery of pig farming to the actual cleaning up of pig farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Krol and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u292	Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We're taking an ever-increasing advance on the future. We can't let that happen any longer. Next year, on 20 March, we can make sure that this destructive cabinet loses its majority in the First Chamber; the main signal that you can send as a voter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u293	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have debated with the Prime Minister of the unspoken promises. The Prime Minister who likes to wave purchasing power forecasts, but he reacts shoulder-to-shoulder when they don't turn out to be true. We hope that the people at home have got a good idea of what the Prime Minister's promises are worth and who they stand for. That would be a profit, because for them we do this after all. And you bet the Prime Minister, that this cabinet and the coalition will be dealt with next year. To emphasise once again what 50PLUS stands for, I submit a number of motions. 50PLUS has often called for attention to be paid to the functioning of and collection by the Tax Administration. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State of the Tax Administration is one of the largest headache files of the previous and current Cabinet;]] [[Whereas the Tax Administration has been seriously affected by successive reorganisations and austerity rounds;]] [[whereas the Central Planning Office has now even found that an intensification in the Tax Administration to EUR 500 million can earn itself back in the same year;]] [[considers that better compliance with existing tax legislation and the reduction of errors in the Tax Administration is not a tax increase;]] [[calls on the government to make additional funds available to the Tax Administration next year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Thieme and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u295	During the first period, very extensive discussions were held on the abolition of the dividend tax. The Prime Minister's arguments have once again failed to convince the 50PLUS Group. In addition, we still have procedural objections. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Government has linked, inter alia, a separate legislative proposal on the abolition of dividend taxation to the draft Tax Plan for 2019;]] [[noting that the current Minister of Finance was the author of the motion adopted to exclude these practices for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the abolition of the dividend tax in a separate legislative proposal to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Baudet, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u296	And then, of course, pensions. According to some media, an agreement is imminent. Of course, we are going to talk about this in detail, but in advance we must at least take care of one thing. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement indicates that the Cabinet wishes to facilitate the collective conversion of existing claims into personal pension assets;]] [[Whereas a pension agreement is in the process of being concluded;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain in its entirety the right of ownership of existing pension claims of workers and pensioners, as laid down in Article 83 of the Pension Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u297	The Prime Minister has admitted that the development of purchasing power for some of the pensioners is by no means a complete compensation for what this group has had to give up in recent years. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the estimated increase in purchasing power over 2017 and 2018 for pensioners has not been achieved at all and has even been substantially reduced;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that a well-earned catch-up ends up in pensioners' wallets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuzu and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u298	In recent years, much has been said about decentralisation of public administration to municipalities. This has been replaced by a great deal of inequality and uncertainty for the citizens, and this has to be really different. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many tasks and responsibilities of the Empire have been transferred to municipalities in recent years, for example in the field of social support or sustainability loans;]] [[whereas municipalities have been given a great deal of freedom of policy in this respect, which creates wide differences for residents to claim;]] [[Whereas this leads to uncertainty and inequality, which is very undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to consider existing and future decentralisations of public administration to municipalities in a clear framework in order to avoid far-reaching disparities between municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u299	Then there's a motion about the police. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a Medal of Honor for exceptional performances of unital or national importance, or exceptional merit for the police;]] [[whereas a police officer who shows great courage in the commitment close to home, in our neighborhoods and streets, also deserves special appreciation;]] [[Whereas explicit recognition and appreciation reflect the gratitude and respect of society for the particular commitment shown;]] [[Whereas explicit recognition and valuation also contributes to the promotion of professional pride;]] [[calls on the Government to broaden its interpretation of the existing possibilities for awarding a Medal of Honor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS thanks the Prime Minister for his compliments on our counter-budget. Assuming that that opinion is shared by a majority in this Chamber, I shall finally table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to fully convert the 2019 counter-budget of 50PLUS into policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u301	And finally, Madam President. I find it difficult, but I would like to return to yesterday's drama. I can't help but say that yesterday I really slept with a button in my stomach. I have no words for it, but I thank you and the Prime Minister for the warm words you have spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u302	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u303	Madam President. First of all, I would like to join with all the warm words that have been said in connection with the moving accident in Oss. We think of all the people who have been deeply affected by this and we pray for comfort in grief. Mr. Chairman. When I rushed forward, I heard a little mumbling: do we get Solomon again? I will not do that now, for Solomon said it, The wise knoweth time and wisdom. That is why I would just like to confine myself to a number of motions, two motions that I myself wish to table. I would like to make a brief comment on one underexposed point, one particular moment and one remarkable motion by Mr Klaver. The underexplained point is something that has hardly been mentioned, namely the Prime Minister's intervention on the criticism of the Council of State whether we are actually spending too much, whether we are dealing adequately with public finances. Traditionally, CDA and VVD are also at the forefront of making that point, but in such a coalition this is something else. I would just like to take up this task, by making that comment from the Council of State intrusive: Prime Minister, cabinet, do you have sufficient regard for sound public finances? 'Cause what was it again? When the sun shone, the roof had to be repaired. Well, the sun has shined plenty on this Prince's Day, but is the roof being repaired now, too? That as an underexposed point. Secondly, the special moment. Yes, of course there are a lot of special moments at such General Reviews, but I thought it was an example that fortunately there is also a lot of real listening to each other when I came up with a point that I had in my contribution in the first term and on which you do not expect a lot of support, the problems of the shopkeeper who has to be open on Sundays and who otherwise does not enter the mall. Then both Mr Wilders and Mr Pechtold immediately came to the aid of putting some extra pressure on the cabinet: come up with a good inventory of the pain points and also provide a solution. I liked that moment. You will notice that Mr. Pechtold has also left a few things behind, as he has just mentioned the special value of the rest day. Yesterday he talked about reading more in the Bible, so it's really going in the right direction with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u304	That was the special moment. Finally, a remarkable motion: the Klever motion with which he managed, after several unsuccessful attempts, to obtain our name under a motion on dividend taxation. That has happened expertly because he has so nicely connected with the words I used in my first term: cabinet, is there not a nice alternative available for this dividend tax? This is still a strong wish that lives with us, even after these discussions, because we believe that this is not in balance as it is now proposed. Mr. Chairman. Let me now move on to the two motions that I myself wish to table. The first motion concerns a point on which I have entered in the first term. Mr Buma has supported me and he is a co-signator of this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that extreme weather conditions, such as the recent drought period, threaten the continuity and vitality of family farms in agriculture and horticulture;]] [[Whereas the importance of the continuity and resilience of agricultural holdings is important;]] [[Whereas broad weather insurance is a means of reducing collectively the vulnerability of agricultural holdings to extreme weather conditions, but the high insurance burden does not make the instrument sufficiently attractive;]] [[Whereas in several other European countries broad weather insurance is exempt from insurance tax;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how also in the Netherlands exemption from insurance tax for broad weather insurance can be achieved and to inform the Board for the treatment of the Tax Plan thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u305	Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns the area of asylum. We have already discussed the need to really prevent the long duration of procedures. Fortunately, the Prime Minister said that we should not move everything until a committee has reported. That gives me courage for the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas long-term stay in the Netherlands following a rejected asylum application is often due to the duration of repeated review procedures;]] [[Whereas, in order to prevent distressing situations and undermine a credible asylum policy, it is important to avoid long-term stays in the Netherlands without final clarity;]] [[calls on the Government to make urgent efforts to ensure that, after the decision on the first appeal, the principle is that expulsion is not suspended by new review procedures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u307	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u308	Mr President, you spoke today, as did the Prime Minister, of warm sympathy for the terrible accident in Oss. My group fully supports this. We are in mind with the victims and wish the next of kin very much strength in dealing with this loss. Mr. Chairman. More for multinationals, less for people, that is the new credo of the VVD of Mark Rutte, Klaas Dijkhoff and this cabinet. The big question of this edition of the General Political Reviews was: who chooses Mark Rutte? Does he choose the girls, the masters, the nurses, the policemen, the bus drivers? Or does he choose the CEOs and the shareholders of Shell and Unilever? That became clear pretty soon. Two days this reversed Robin Hood and his gang have been in box K. Yes, the reverse Robin Hood, because Rutte takes money from the poor and gives it to the rich. Rutte and his gang in Vak-K plunder the wallet of the ordinary Dutch and baken the bank account of foreign shareholders. As I said earlier, the puppets of the Malie Tower, the Daltons of the dividend tax, the runners of the multinationals have been robbing money from the normal Dutchman for years, and they continue to do so joyfully. For the ordinary, normal, hardworking Dutchman the daily groceries become more expensive. For the ordinary, normal, hardworking Dutchman, the energy bill becomes €150 more expensive. For the ordinary, normal, hardworking Dutchman, the health insurance premium becomes more expensive. The worst thing is that this cabinet is blind and deaf to all the noises that come from society. Blind and deaf to Miss Emma, who says she's about to burn out because of the high workload and the pop classes, thanks to the Minister of Education. Blind and deaf to Agent Cor, who rightly demands a little more pay as the economy goes well and gets a lawsuit from Minister Grapperhaus. Blind and deaf to Mrs Cornelissen. I mentioned that today during an interruption. It sees in its pension statement the communication that it has been at 0% growth for years and does not have to expect an increase in the coming years. Thanks to this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. And then the Prime Minister reacts cold and cold with: a little jámmer for them. Is that where the Prime Minister sits for all the Dutch, or is that where the Prime Minister sits for foreign shareholders, large-scale capital and slurp multinationals? Today, Mark Rutte showed that he's the opposite Robin Hood. He takes money from the ordinary people and gives it to the multinationals and the big companies. Mr. Chairman. As DENK, we have signed a number of motions with colleagues to reverse this trend, of course on the dividend tax, on the energy bill, on the pay gap in education, on falling purchasing power for pensioners and much more. Meanwhile, Rutte talks about the outstretched hand of the cabinet. Then I say: show that it is not a raised middle finger, or a hand you are trying to smack, just as we saw today when the entire opposition started talking about the dividend tax, when the opposition for the umpteenth time tried to talk this miserable plan out of Rutte's head in vain. The VVD made a video about that. They learned well from DENK how to handle the scissors. I'd like to say to them, "Keep practicing." Things aren't always going well. Mr. Chairman. Despite all our criticism of this cabinet and the Prime Minister, we have found the Prime Minister at our side on one important point. He found the idea of Klaas Dijkhoff who is not there at the moment, I see.. to come up with double penalties for certain neighborhoods unworkable and unworkable. The postcode racism of Dijkhoff was served in a civilized way. I call on my colleagues from the VVD to come up with new ideas. Last year, just before the General Political Reviews, we saw the plan to reduce assistance. Now they've stolen an idea from the liberals from Denmark. Our group would appreciate it if they could come up with something that would help everyone in the Netherlands. It must end sometime with the PVV-corvee within the VVD. We wonder what the next test balloon is. Should asylum seekers then hand over their belongings to the border to pay for their stay? Are we going to lock up asylum seekers in reception camps for as long as they want to have a beer with Klaas Dijkhoff during carnival? We wonder that and it wouldn't surprise us. I would therefore really like to draw the attention of colleagues in the VVD to the campaign logo that we have devised for you for free and for nothing:'more for multinationals, less for people'. Then the people in the country really know what this cabinet is about. Mr. Chairman. We've had a discussion over the last few days about living together. We at DENK have a strong position on this. That's why I'm filing the next motion to see who's on our side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that equivalence, connection, diversity and inclusiveness are important standards and values;]] [[supports the inclusive multicultural society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u309	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to endorse the very appropriate words already devoted to the terrible drama in Oss. On behalf of my group and my party, I would also like to express my condolences to the families of the victims. Mr. Chairman. In today's flying contest, I deliberately kept my distance. It is remarkable that this, as I see it in the Chamber, has been so missed, because how have people really been able to entertain themselves in expressing the premeditated ideas, the indignation played, the pointless arguments in advance and the jokes about pajamas of assholes? Contrary to what many people here think, a lot of people in the Netherlands are really not doing that. And I'm not working on it either. I am not here to play in the fairy tale world in which many live in this Chamber. For the past two days, since my speech last Wednesday, FvD has had hundreds of members. We receive many hundreds of apps and e-mails from people who recognize themselves very much in the image of a Haags Animal Farm. My speech on Wednesday has now been viewed more than 500,000 times on our own media channels alone. It really unlocks something in society. While I am speaking here in the Chamber, tonight hundreds of selected people will meet in various provinces across the Netherlands in order to get to know each other better in order to form provincial candidate lists for the Provincial State elections of 20 March 2019, which will also allow the new First Chamber to be elected. So next to the Chamber work we are very busy developing organisation outside this Chamber. That is what we are doing to replace you and you, starting on 20 March 2019, with people who will be able to distinguish between main and side issues, who would like to debate content, who would like to discuss arguments and who would like to have the Dutch interest prevail over exchanging them to create a job for yourself in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u310	What chamber work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u311	I can give a list of the things that I think are most important. First of all, expressing at times that matter great visions about where to go with the country, something that our Prime Minister has always run away from. Secondly, this is an important point, which unfortunately is now also lost very often by the fact that the coalition agreements make it possible for everything to contribute to the government's policy on content. That's what we see today, too, very little room for. There is also a case for perhaps one or two justified comments on this, namely the absence of a lasting hand, which was hoped for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u312	I ask what parliamentary work, because I have not seen it today. I didn't see it on Wednesday. You come into the room at the end of the evening to tell us that it was all a bit disappointing. I had hoped that you would raise that level here in the last few days with your contributions, your views on how we're going to do differently. I had hoped that you would have brought Mark Rutte here about the chair and made it clear to him that things had to be different in the Netherlands. You have that opportunity, you have been elected to parliament. You had a chance to finally tell Mark Rutte how else to do it. But you didn't. Why not? You didn't do it, Mr. Baudet. And that, in my opinion, is a sign of the way you conduct politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u313	I don't know if anyone else doesn't feel like I do. I often feel that it's beneath my dignity to be here pointless...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u314	... to make senseless arguments here, because you know that you are not being listened to, because you know that you are not getting into it, because you know that the one you're interrupting is talking his way out of it with some side thing. It's a repeat of moves. I haven't heard one new argument. It's always the same back and forth ping-pong, the same outrage played. It's always just the same arguments, and it's not going anywhere. And indeed, if you can choose between building your party on the one hand, building the network in the country to change something later, and on the other hand playing endlessly here in that played game, then I choose the first. And I think a lot of people in the Netherlands have also dropped out. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands also hear that tone that many of you are talking about. When I talk to you outside this room, you talk like normal people. As soon as you stand here in front of the microphone, there's gonna be that vicar's tone, that indignation, always that feeling that it's all really bad. It's so fake! It's so fake!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u315	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u316	"Become my dignity"? Are you serious? Beneath my dignity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u317	For the 20th time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u318	"Become my dignity." Is that how you speak here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u319	Don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u320	To give an argument for the 20th time if you do know that it is not being addressed. Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u321	"Become my dignity." I can very much disagree with Mr Wilders. But he stood here today to stand up for his constituents. He took the trouble to attack the Prime Minister. I can't say for you. Beneath your dignity, Mr. Baudet? As a democrat elected to this Dutch parliament, it is your job...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u322	You won't get an answer! You're not gonna get a reaction!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u323	...it is your job to express your views. The answer you need to get, you force it. I saw the Prime Minister in trouble today, too. Did I get all the answers I wanted? No. But I am here in Parliament and I choose to have the debate here. If you don't want to, I have no idea what you're looking for here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u324	Listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u325	No, Mr Klaver, Mr Baudet has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u326	I'm standing here and I'm telling the story I believe in. I'm in the way I believe I can change something and bring something in. But I would like to point out that a very large part of the debates that are being held here are not at all debates, but a series of monologues. They are a series of played indignation, and there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who feel the same way as I do. That is why the call for change in this country is so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u327	A succession of played indignation? I think a mirror would make sense to you, too. That's one. Two. You just said I'm not much in this Chamber because I'm building my party. It might be good to recall that there have been elections. What did you go into the election for? To change everything here, in the House of Representatives. You are also paid for this; we are all well paid for it. I also have a party to lead, we all have a party to lead outside our parliamentary work. Your job is here. There are two possibilities. Either you go to the voter to let you choose, or you stay outside somewhere. But in the latter case, you should not be allowed to pay as a Member of Parliament. You do now, and that's not fair to the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u328	I think I'm standing here as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u329	One thing about that. If you stand here as a Member of Parliament, you stand here to control the government on behalf of the people. You just told me that all monologues are held here. Then be the first to do it another way. The strange thing is: I've been doing this for a number of years, including as a member of the opposition. Something can be achieved, but then you have to do your job again. This is where it happens. In fact, this is not politics or the House of Representatives, this is democracy. It takes place here, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u330	I can remember that in a debate just before the summer recess I was interrupted by the role of state broadcasting in a democracy. If any form of subsidy did not also imply a form of censorship, the demand was. Then I said, "Well, that's an interesting point, I need to think about that. That was an attempt to bring something substantive back to Parliament, to say: hey, I'm not going back to my rehearsed speech, I'm not going straight into the registers of what my spindoctors have advised me to scroll to the ready-to-use answer, I'm going to think. That's exactly what got me up in this house, because I didn't mean to! They'd never seen that before. I'll keep doing it. As soon as there is a substantive objection, as soon as something comes up to think about it, I will think about it. As soon as something has not been said in a debate, I will always bring it up. But what we are seeing here is a series of arguments which we have heard back and forth 40 times and which are put forward only for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u331	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u332	One more thing. You'll always go into it if anything happens here? You weren't even in the room for much of the day!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u333	First of all, that's not true. I've been here most of the day, so that's bullshit. Secondly, at times when I was not in the room, I was preparing a provincial meeting that we now have and I watched through the monitors. So you really don't have to worry, Mr. Buma, we're watching the debate very closely here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u334	I have a question for Mr Baudet: do you think this is a fake parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u335	I do not think that our democracy is working properly. That is because the coalition negotiations are closing everything up and the debate in the House of Representatives is so that my point is not about content at many times, it is not about listening to each other, but about putting forward the same points over and over again, always the same rehearsals. I want to change that by changing the system, one in which the founder of D66 could fully recognize himself, because much of our system criticism is very similar to Hans van Mierlo's criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u336	A very long answer, where simply "yes" or "no" would have fit. Do you think this is a fake parliament? Did you invite the voters of the Forum for Democracy to vote for you to take a role with the current democratic rules of the game, a role that a parliamentarians can play in their own way within a very broad range? Do you think this is a fake parliament, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u337	I'll give you the answer. I'm not going to speculate on such a word, that's on your own account. But the way in which this Parliament operates is first and foremost sub-optimal and, secondly, in fact also contrary to the Constitution. The idea of the Constitution is that you have the dualism that Parliament thinks in its own way about what the government comes up with. That dualism has been completely dismantled by the coalition agreements. There is a majority, the coalition agreement has been concluded and, in principle, it is fixed until one of the four people who actually run this country, namely the four people who are the leaders of the coalition parties, decides that things have to be different. Of course, there may be circumstances that are new. Then that's what we'll be thinking about. But let us, even now, not turn around like this: a lot of what is happening here is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u338	If there is one about the hot stuff, it is Mr Baudet who does not say yes or no to my question whether this is a fake parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u339	No, but then you should have that word...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u340	Mr President, I think I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u341	...defining. I'm not sure what you mean by that word, is it a quote from Wilders? That's a very different kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u342	No, no, Mr. Baudet, Mr. Pechtold has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u343	If you study the classics, like Mr Baudet, and if you know the rules of this Parliament, you know that letting each other talk, that argumenting can lead to insight, vision, views and ultimately decisions. If you start talking through another person all the time in the sparing time that you can speak at all, that is a problem. Mr. Chairman. I said: if one is about the hot stuff, it is Mr Baudet, who does not answer clearly 'yes' or 'no' to the question of whether this term 'fake parliament' is a loaded term. That's a sign for me. The way in which you fill in the role, the dedain with which you talk about the handicrafts that people in small or large groups do here for shared interest or total interest! You throw it away, you actually say to 148 colleagues: what you are doing is out of reality. While, when you study history and look at the rest of the world, we turn out to have a form of democracy that can always be improved but which belongs to the highest in the world and in our history. If you distance yourself from that and do not even dare to say that this body, this house, is the highest in democracy, and you keep suggesting that this is a fake parliament, that does not say much about this Parliament, but says all about Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u344	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u345	Then I will go to Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u346	Mr President, thank you for the floor, but of course even more thank you to Mr Baudet for spending so many minutes having a conversation far below his dignity. He's complaining. Some of his complaints I still understand. There is often only the text that is already there and is not listened to, he read from paper. He complains that there is no listening, no interrupting and no substantive discussion. We've been doing that here for minutes. We'll listen to Mr. Baudet when he takes us down. We listen to Mr Baudet when he complains for the eighth time that everyone here in Parliament keeps repeating themselves. That's what he's doing. We listen to Mr Baudet when he complains about The Hague games and he just stops an interruption by Mr Pechtold with the handy "I sometimes use this myself" and classic trick "I haven't heard a question." We listen to Mr Baudet when he comes here with pseudo poetic reutels and reads to us from books we've read a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u347	Well, that's the windfall of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u348	Even in quasi-sensual poems, I can also enjoy some pleasure when I see other colleagues shuffling a little uncomfortable when you talk about young ladies' thighs. I like that. I can also imagine that with all this creativity you could have made a very good contribution. I remember you interrupting me the day before yesterday, asking me a question about content. I have really tried to do my best with the limited knowledge I have. I'm sure you have more to discuss. So I'm a little offended if you're pretending to be working really hard. I also grant you your wine in the corridors, but do not confuse it with the image you create that you are toiling for the party all the time. You're enjoying this. You enjoy the game. You have chosen to play it differently once, to say that you do not want to participate. But you're gonna do it, too. We listen to you and we ask questions. Could we not have spent this time, which we are already spending together, with all our colleagues, much better on one of the many points you say you want to change? Because if I don't know what you want to turn into a debate like this, then I can't agree with it or disagree with it or disagree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u349	What exactly does Mr Dijkhoff mean to say? That instead of talking about this question, we should talk about how we can make this Parliament work better? Because that's what I'm all for. But of course his party has always been very sceptical about political renewal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u350	It is Mr Baudet's speaking time, so it is now up to him... I can make a lot of suggestions, but he could have chosen anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u351	This is an interruption, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u352	No, I mean, you're asking, what subjects? You could have chosen all subjects, but you choose to... I don't know exactly. I'll think about whether I'll do it sometime, take the time to think about exactly how to interpret this. But whatever subjects you wanted to discuss, we could have discussed them here. That's what we're doing now. We're talking about you now; maybe that's your favorite subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u353	But wouldn't it have been more useful to spend this time in terms of content? Maybe next year we can try again. But I would have found that more useful. I like this, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u354	Yeah, well, I'd like to continue with my speech. If Mr Dijkhoff is done with his interruption, I can begin with the substantive proposals of our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u355	Okay. Better next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u356	I was wondering if there was anything else I should add to this. I'm doing it anyway because it's a really hard attack on what we're doing here this week, on what I've done and on what we've been doing for years. I am standing here as the representative of a five-seat party, which is rather limited, which is working for the snot. We have also had times when we were in the opposition and we sometimes wondered if we were making a dent in a package of butter. Still, you're doing it. Why? Because there's gonna be a time when you have to take responsibility. Then you must have plans, then you must have experience, then you must know what you want. Why are we doing it? Because we have a democratic duty. Because in this house, disputes are settled. It is a country with incredible differences, with sometimes bitter contradictions. Then you have two ways to deal with it: either you are going to settle it peacefully here with words and with paper or you are going to do it outside in a very different way. Because we don't want the latter, we're here. Because that's a big assignment, you only have one assignment: get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u357	I think that's exactly what I'm doing here. I say something that I keep doing; I said that on Wednesday, and I say that again, a lot of you, who are now looking so good, have also put me in the corridors. Many people here, including members of the cabinet sitting here today, have told me in a one-on-one situation that they think a lot of what is happening here in debates is bullshit. If you say that democracy is important to you, Mr Segers, you should also listen to systemic criticism. And if it is true that fundamental things go wrong here in the way in which Parliament operates, then it is not only our right as parliamentarians to bring that forward; that is our highest duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u358	This is where we settle our differences. This is where we fight them out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u359	I'm facing you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u360	... with words and no different. We don't do that behind a screen. We don't do that with a wine in the walkways. We don't do that in rooms outside. That's what we do here when we meet. If we have the subjects on the table here, you're here. If you want to change the system, you do it here, with open-eyed sights in the debate. That's your duty. That's what you have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u361	I'm standing here, but I'm not convinced of that. I'm just saying that Parliament operates in a vacuum. Parliament must also be connected to the corridors, to the streets of the Netherlands, to halls in the Netherlands, to the debate of the people and to what the people in the country are worried about. If you're saying it's all supposed to happen here, it's a cheese clotting. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u362	Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u363	Good. Those were my introductory remarks about what I found in the last few days. Then it's content. Together with the other opposition parties, we support the recovery law dividend tax. We withdraw the annual gift of 2 or 3 billion to Unilever and Shell. This money wants to use FvD to reduce taxes for all working and retired Dutch people and to abolish inheritance and gift taxes. Immigration issues must be addressed by introducing the Australian model, whereby the Netherlands itself decides who is allowed to come here and who is not, based on affinity with Dutch culture, on training and on the needs of Dutch society. We want a tough zero tolerance policy to enforce integration, close radical mosques and deport hate preachers. Those are again things that you could introduce in such a way, but they just don't happen. In addition, we have to stop paying for indulgences to the new religion, the new obsession: the planned energy transition, which is expected to cost about 200 billion euros, a quarter of GDP, and even according to the proponents' calculation models, will have an effect that does not exceed 0.00007°C less temperature increase over 80 years. Madness. We need to invest in thorium research, stop demolishing our gas infrastructure and continue using gas, just like the rest of the world. Furthermore, we ensure that we are innovative, and that there is more money for education and infrastructure. Finally, we ask Mark Rutte once again to clarify his European ambitions, now that even his coalition partner D66, through Alexander Pechtold during the General Reviews, made it clear that Russian... Brussels... that Rutte wants to go to Brussels. The words go all the way into my mouth. Mr. Chairman. I'm filing five motions. First of all... [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the problem of immigration in the Netherlands has assumed unsustainable proportions and that this leads to huge demographic changes which threaten to seriously undermine future social cohesion in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to design a comprehensive review of our immigration policy in accordance with Australian example, using a point system with criteria such as affinity with Dutch culture, educational level, age and work experience, before an immigration or asylum application is considered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the planned abolition of the dividend tax costs the Empire at least EUR 2 billion a year in tax revenues;]] [[calls on the government to reverse this proposed gift to multinationals;]] [[Whereas the proceeds of the inheritance and gift tax amount to around 1.6 billion a year;]] [[calls on the government, instead of abolishing the dividend tax, to reduce taxes for all Dutch, starting with the abolition of the inheritance and gift tax as of 1 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that even according to the calculations of the proponents of the "energy transition', the effect of this whole undertaking on the debt instrument will only be around 0,00007 °C, expected by these proponents to be global warming over a period of 50 to 80 years;]] [[noting that the cost of some EUR 200 billion is in no way proportionate and in no way proportionate to the expected impact of the policy;]] [[calls on the Government to stop plans for the energy transition and for the reduction of gas consumption and instead to invest in innovation, thorium research, better education and a better infrastructure to stimulate the Dutch knowledge economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet now intends to reduce the costs of abolishing dividend taxation for SMEs andzzp entrepreneurs;]] [[whereas Dutch entrepreneurs have already been disproportionately affected by the crisis and have had to bear it to a large extent;]] [[calls on the government not to allow SMEs andzzp's to bear the cost of paying dividends and not to increase the burden on entrepreneurs further;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[taking note of the growing rumours that Prime Minister Rutte is a candidate for a top European position;]] [[expresses concern that due to personal career ambitions, the Prime Minister will not fully defend the Dutch interest in the far-reaching negotiations that are at stake in the European context;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to clarify his personal career ambitions and to make the following statement in that regard:]] [["During this cabinet period, I will not stand for a European top position or accept a candidacy. If I'm nominated, I won't accept such a top position. If I'm appointed, I won't accept the post.',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-40]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-41]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-42]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u364	I have one question for Mr Baudet. That's the next question. He has told a very big story about why this Parliament didn't matter and why it's already established in advance, but why is he making motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u365	"A whole story"... In my view, I have devoted a number of sentences to why the debate is to a large extent pointless, because there is no listening to the arguments and because we are constantly riding our own stickhorses in front of the stage. That is something other than putting forward proposals, with concrete proposals. That is what I do in the motions: to show the people in the Netherlands that it can also be different and also show which parties are going to vote against these motions, so against the proposals we are making. Just vote against it; show it to the voters where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u366	Okay, so that's the purpose of the debate: show it to the voters where you stand. If that's the House of Representatives, we should all stop debating and table motions alone. In my image, it's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u367	Thank you. We have come to the end of the second term of office. 37 motions have been tabled. I'm suspending the debate for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-6.u368	In those 30 minutes, we're going to do the VAO AVN with the Foreign Minister. The "team" of Foreign Affairs is present.
