ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	We're going to the second question. This is from Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV. It will present it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is today replacing the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday afternoon, we were attacked by the report that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is giving accelerated financial aid to UNRWA. For example, it makes the full annual contribution of EUR 13 million available immediately. It is a pity that the Minister for BuHa-OS is not here today to explain and explain, especially in the light of her personal involvement in this organisation. UNRWA is a poorly functioning UN organisation that is guilty of hate and anti-Semitism. UNRWA schools are used as weapons stores and to cover up terrorist smuggling tunnels. Palestinian children are indoctrinated with Jew hatred. That's crazy. Instead of stopping all aid to these pernicious practices, the Netherlands is going to transfer tax money extra quickly. The decision of this cabinet comes just two days after the United States announced that it would cut its contribution to UNRWA by half, 65 million. With this leverage, the Americans hope to force UNRWA into the much-needed reforms. The Netherlands is now sabotaging that strategy. My group has the following questions. What does this cabinet think of the functioning of UNRWA? Is reform necessary in the eyes of this cabinet? Does this cabinet intend to make additional funds available to UNRWA in addition to the annual contribution of 13 million? How will the Minister explain this decision to the U.S. government? Is it prepared to reverse the decision if it turns out that this has a negative impact on the relationship between the Netherlands and the US? To which other organisations affected by an American budget discount will the Netherlands offer additional or accelerated assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's okay when I hear it like that, that I'm standing here instead of my colleague. Now I can make it quite clear that I think it is wise to stop creating the personal link between my colleague's husband and matters of substance. Members of the Cabinet are here on behalf of the Crown. They do their work on behalf of the Crown and should be judged on their political work here. To make such suggestions, I would almost like to say as a personal fact on behalf of someone else, is not the way in which we should conduct politics here. I'm far from it. I am pleased that I am able to say that and that my colleague does not have to do so himself. Personal involvement of directors is good, and sometimes they know things well. I've come to the description of the UNRWA. That is, I say for the people who are watching, the organisation responsible for the reception of Palestinian refugees in and around Israel. This is the picture that is sketched: malfunctioning, hate-sowing, tunnels. Mr. Chairman. Let us have the debate here on the basis of the facts. Tunnels were found among two schools funded by UNRWA in Gaza. By the way, that news has been brought out by UNRWA itself. They have discovered this, they have closed the tunnels and they have also immediately dismissed two Palestinian officials who were found to work for Hamas. Hate sows are often about textbooks. That's a very old discussion. School books have been adapted according to UN guidelines. Where they're not, they're being replaced. Complaints about this, for example from the Israeli authorities, are always dealt with and, where necessary, lead to adaptation. Let's establish that, too. I've come to the judgment of "unfunctioning." UNRWA has been heavily controlled in recent years. There have been situations in the past that didn't work great. It is now an annual audit. There is a scorecard showing how it works each year. It has recently been confirmed that financial policy is sound. Twice a year, an ad hoc committee is assembled, and the Netherlands is also in the Netherlands, which assesses UNRWA's policy. It also states that the policy is good. Is reform necessary? No. And why have the additional funds been paid out before? First of all, it's not extra money. Let's establish that for a moment. Through budget law, last autumn the Chamber approved the amount of 13 million from the budget. The moment of payment is not in the budget. That has been brought forward, but there is no other way to increase the funds. We, as Europe and the Netherlands, as I say on behalf of my colleague, also have some interest in this. This is about teaching about 525,000 boys and girls, which stops when the money is gone. It's about health care for about 3 million Palestinian refugees, which stops when the money's gone. It is about food security of about 60% of the population in Gaza, for example, which stops when the money is gone. If we run out of money, we will get the situation in which people, like in 2015 in Turkey, may decide to go on the run. There's a pretty good chance they'll come this way. I would therefore also like to point out to the PVV Group that there is also some self-interest in the proper functioning of UNRWA. That's why we're on top of it. We must avoid creating an international situation that could lead these people to migrate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	Okay, here's the thing. I am pleased that the Minister himself has already spoken about the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation's husband. I was actually referring to the work history of the Minister for BuHa-OS, but I thank the Minister for this supplement. Then I heard a lot of anxiety again: we have to help them, otherwise they come this way and the money is acute. This doesn't bode well, I say to the Minister. 13 million have now been made available immediately. I would like the Minister's promise that this year, 2018, no more Dutch tax money will go to UNRWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am not going to make that commitment, because in recent years we have certainly spent extra money on UNRWA in the context of humanitarian aid at a later date. That could happen now. I just don't know, so I can't promise it won't happen and I can't promise it will. In recent years, it has been humanitarian aid. If it were to happen, my urgent request would be for your Chamber not to politicise humanitarian aid. If it's humanitarian aid, it's humanitarian aid. It's without respect for the person and the group, and then it can happen. I can tell you that there is no intention to increase our annual contribution, which is set at 13 million. That's a promise I can make to you. However, extra money has been devoted to humanitarian aid in recent years, and it cannot be ruled out that this year is also happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like another response to the first-term questions I asked about the relationship between the US government and the Netherlands, if you are so boldly cycling through the strategy. In conclusion, I find it ridiculous to say that such a UN organisation has not yet been shut down and is even financially supported by Western countries and the Netherlands, and that the cabinet directly transfers money to the Jews haters of UNRWA. At the same time, citizens in Groningen can wait years for compensation. It's a gotsp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	A brief response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	I didn't see Groningen's coming. That's a really weird link. It would adorn the PVV group if she looked at facts and didn't talk about "a Jew-hating organization like UNRWA." Let us look at the facts: that is not the case. And then we have to try to avoid this kind of language. As far as relations with the US are concerned, we have no idea that the US is dissatisfied with this decision. In fact, we have the impression that they are happy that UNRWA does not stop aid immediately, because that would also create a fairly serious problem for Israel. To avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	Minister Zijlstra says here that groups should not politicise humanitarian aid. But what he does himself is humanize purely political actions. Surely it is clear that this was really inspired in response to Trump and if: what Minister Ploumen could do, can this new minister? So let's make an act. It is extremely unfortunate and misplaced to continue with this despite the efforts of the US authorities and others who are unhappy with the artificial maintenance of the refugee problem. Is the Cabinet prepared to reverse that political action?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	First maybe a question, although that's unusual. What does Mr Van der Staaij mean by "sustaining art"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	You may explain, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	By that I mean that, by way of derogation from all the current refugee definitions used by the UNHCR, definitions are chosen which also include grandchildren and great-grandchildren as refugees. Secondly, I visited those camps, which also visited residential areas in Lebanon, for example. Instead of moving towards integration over time in another country...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	...such a camp or residential neighborhood is maintained as refugee camp. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	Then it's clear. I'll get to the U.S. decision and politics in a minute. Let's talk about this part first. In the UNHCR, it is exactly the same. Children of refugees, born in refugee camps, are registered as refugees. That will continue to be the case, and that is also the case here. With that "artificial" thing, I think we should be careful. I think we should also realise, as I say in all honesty, that the refugee problem is one of the issues to be resolved in the final negotiation and in a final agreement in the framework of the Middle East Peace Process between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. The Palestinians want the right to return and Israel does not want it. This must be resolved in mutual negotiations. These people are trying to take away refugee status in this way, and they are also intervening on the two-state solution. The policy of the Dutch cabinet is very clear: we are going for the two-state solution and are trying to negotiate between Israel and the Palestinians, and thus also to resolve this problem. That is why we must be very careful not to take unilateral steps, as in the case of the decision on Jerusalem, which, in the opinion of this cabinet, are unilateral measures to deal with the peace process and the two-state solution. Our assessment is that this does not bring the solution any closer. Then there's the U.S. decision. I have just indicated in response to the PVV that we are not taking such decisions as a counter-reaction to any government's decision. We are looking at what this means for UNRWA. I have just indicated that it is about education for 525,000 children, health care for more than 3 million people and food security for millions of people. These are also potential consequences for the Netherlands and Europe, which we do not want to have on us. That's why we're trying to avoid these problems. By the way, the bad news is that there is a gap in the budget. That's gonna have to be solved. We are not just going to do that, so that problem will come at some point. The time to find a solution by looking for other donors is what we want to give UNRWA, so that we are not going to have that problem here in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	The Minister just said that there is no relationship between halving American support to UNRWA and the Dutch decision. On the contrary, I read in the statement that the Minister indicated that the Netherlands jumped into that hole, precisely because it fell there. There are other countries that barely give money to UNRWA. For example, Kuwait, Turkey and Qatar. My question is whether this cabinet, when it comes to aid money, is now going to fill several gaps that the Americans are dropping. We've seen it before. Is this gonna be a policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	A brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	I may have said it wrong, but we are not taking this decision because the Americans have made the other decision. We are not saying that the Americans have taken this decision, so we are going to do something about it. We take this decision on our own. However, it is a consequence of the American decision on this matter. There is no doubt about this, which creates a financing problem for UNRWA. That funding problem will have to be solved, otherwise the consequences I have just outlined will occur. In doing so, we are giving the UN time to encourage other countries, you mentioned a few potential candidates, to increase their funding. Europe does not intend to take care of this gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	I now give the floor to Mr Bouali; no longer to you, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	I understand that Mr Voordewind wants to know something about precedents. No precedents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	Now Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	D66 considers the UNRWA decision of the cabinet to be a very sensible one. We are helping Palestinian refugees in the fields of education, health care and food security; the Minister has already pointed it out. It is good to see that we are doing this together with a number of EU countries. My question to the Minister is how the cabinet sees the further role of the European Union when it comes to peace in the region that does justice to both the Palestinians and the Israelis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	We had an IBS Council in Brussels yesterday, and President Abbas was also present. If Europe is to play a role, Europe must be united. That doesn't always work on this file; to put it mildly. My conviction and the conviction of this cabinet is that a peace process without the Americans is impossible. You can see that the Palestinians and the Israelis now see more of a role for the Quartet, including the Americans, for the peace process. However, it is clear that there is great distrust among the Palestinians towards the Americans as a single mediator. Europe can help in this by participating in this process and getting a certain balance. In doing so, we must be very careful, as I clearly indicated yesterday in the RBZ Council...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	I have to intervene, because the question was about financial aid to the UN organisation and now it is about peace talks. I know this is important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	It must also be specific and limited to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	Madam President, the question was very specific about the further role of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	Then I will make a point very quickly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think we're gonna have a big talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u32	I've turned it in, and then I'm gonna make a point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u34	What we need to avoid is a situation in which the Americans choose Israel and Europe for the Palestinians. The Netherlands does not take sides. We want to keep a close eye on both Israeli and Palestinian interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you. Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A follow-up question to that. What is the Netherlands, the Minister, doing to get the Americans back on board on this Palestinian issue? Their involvement is important, in terms of finance, but also diplomatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, by constantly advocating to the Palestinians that they should accept, whatever they do now, that the Americans should continue to be part of the peace process. That step worked. Secondly, to point out to our American colleagues: what are your plans? Honestly, everyone is now waiting for the American peace plan, which goes around a lot, but nobody knows exactly what's going on. Until there is, it's a little foggy and we can't really move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mrs Becker, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his sound and well-founded answers. The fact remains that UNRWA is a refugee organisation which has a disproportionate budget per refugee and which has also been known in the past that it has not handled its budget very efficiently and carefully. I hope the Minister understands that the VVD was surprised that Minister Kaag, as it seemed from one day to the next, brought forward 13 million for this organisation. The minister said there's no need for reform. How is the cabinet going to ensure that UNRWA is more efficient and careful in dealing with Dutch taxpayers' money in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u40	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u41	And certainly not unbiased is going to make extra money again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u42	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u43	First of all, it's not extra money. It is the money that has been committed in the budget, which has been paid out before, but not an extra penny. Secondly, the concerns expressed by the VVD Group here were justified, and they have also played in the past. That is why we now have an annual accountability report, which puts the ad hoc committees on it and why the scorecard has been put on it. UNRWA is really doing enough right now. In addition, a very different political debate is whether the contribution to this organisation in relation to other refugee organisations is too high, too low or just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u44	That discussion is coming back, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u45	That's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. I find it truly appalling that when the cabinet decides to accelerate the use of funds that have already been released for Palestinian children who are oppressed by an occupying force, because some president of the United States thinks he can cut short, some parties here pretend to have more money going and as if that money is being spent on terrorists, or whatever. We're talking about kids here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u48	And the question is, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u49	My question to the Minister is: has the Minister addressed the United States and insisted that these resources should not be reduced and what further action will the Minister take to alleviate the Palestinians' needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u50	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u51	And to put an end to the whole hidden peace process as soon as possible, of which you cannot really speak anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u52	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. I think if I answer the last question, the chairman's gonna get angry. Given that it is one question, the answer to the first question is: we did. We have urged the US Government to undo this freeze because it has not yet been stopped, given the great consequences it will have for the Palestinian refugees and in all honesty, including ourselves. We saw in Turkey in 2015 that it could be the trigger that's causing people to run, and that's something we need to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you.
