ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the Van der Meer Committee's report on legal aid. I welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u2	Access to justice is one of the foundations of our rule of law. If people can't live up to their rights, injustice will continue to exist. But the legal aid system has been under attack for years. I agree with everyone who says after me that the system can be improved. I am in favour of taking perverse incentives out of the system and of organising better cooperation in the first line so that people can be better helped. I too believe that we should look very critically at the role of the government. 60% of the cases are against the government. There have been dozens of conversations and meetings, and there are now piles of reports. First we had the Wolfsen Committee and the Barkhuysen Committee. Now we have the Van der Meer Committee. Van der Meer is quite clear after very thorough research: the points on which the remuneration of social lawyers is based are no longer in line with current reality. Lawyers spend a lot more time than they get reimbursed. That's not sustainable. Everyone, everyone really knows that this system is under pressure. The people looking for justice are going to suffer. Today, the Minister can only accept the proposals for a reasonable remuneration for the social lawyer from this truly undisputed scientific research. Why doesn't the Minister do that? Social lawyers are idealists, helping people get their rights. If we want to maintain this system, we must ensure a reasonable remuneration. So let us take that decision today, in the interests of the quality of legal aid and in the interests of the seeker. Take care of legal protection, I say to this Minister for Legal Protection. Mr. Chairman. In stark contrast to the years of cuts in legal aid, i.e. the legal aid for very large groups, government spending on lawyers who do not have to work on the basis of additions. For example, the police use a pool of very expensive lawyers, who work on an hourly bill. One lawyer got almost a ton and a half for one assault case. That's more than most social attorneys convert on an annual basis. There's no way of explaining that. Can the Minister give me an overview of all public expenditure in recent years related to this top-level assistance to the government itself? Finally. Good legal aid is not only a question of civilisation, but can also be very effective. It can prevent social misery and therefore also be financially interesting. Research from Scotland, for example, shows that an investment is multiple in preventing social and social misery and the associated costs. Is the Minister prepared to have the proceeds of the system of legal aid examined? Stop the dismantling of the legal aid system. Save the legal aid. Mr. Chairman. The bleachers are full. Outside on the courtyard it just saw black of the gowns. Impressive. Those people don't fight for themselves. They fight for their clients, for the people who seek justice. Minister, you're the Secretary of Law. Please make that happen. Show me today you're going to stand for legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u4	No, no, no! I should have said at the beginning that you should not in any way express your approval or disapproval. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to step in, and that's really annoying. So try to keep your head down. You can do that as a lawyer, can't you? Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u5	If anyone should know how to behave in a public gallery in these kind of halls, they're lawyers, I'd think, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u6	Don't provoke me, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u7	No, I won't. I have a question for the SP. I've just been to the demonstration at the courtyard. I thought I heard the representative of the SP say that there should be substantial money in the short term. If I understood correctly, would he be able to indicate where that came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'd be happy to. I'll tell the CDA representative here the following. You were also at the round table last week, where everyone, the lawyers, the social counsellors, the scientist and the judge really drew the same conclusion. That was that things could be better in the system and that it might also be able to get some money out of it, we should not have too high expectations, but that there is a lack of maintenance. You say that you have read the full report of the Van der Meer Committee. That report contains 52 recommendations. Recommendation 2 says that these points are no longer in line with current reality. Annex 8 sets out in full the points to be awarded in order to restore reasonable remuneration to save the system. Whether it will cost EUR 127 million per year in the long term, it could, but if there are smart measures to come up with, such as taking perverse incentives out of the system and looking at the role of the government, it could also be less. That might well be possible, but I do think we should say today: twenty years of late maintenance, we do not, we do not deal with a good profession of idealists. Nor do we cut the salaries of politicians. They are not at stake either, and they have grown along with inflation. You can't do this. So something really needs to happen. I think you know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u9	My question was: if you want extra money, where will you get it? I would like to draw attention to your own election programme, in which you invest EUR 0.9 billion more in the justice chain, of which EUR 0.6 billion goes to the police, EUR 0.1 billion to the military and EUR 0.1 billion to the fight against fraud. I haven't seen anywhere in your election program that extra money goes to legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u10	That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u11	It's a sincere question. I think that if that is what you think today, then perhaps you should have found it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u12	For security, we paid EUR 900 million, but you did not read that we also spent EUR 300 million on justice, i.e. on justice and legal aid. So it's covered. The SP raised 1.2 billion. You can just read that in the financial annex to our election programme. If you want to talk about money today, I am fine with that, but we are talking about the state of legal aid and the rule of law. That's gotta be worth some money to us. There's gotta be something to that. So I really hope that you will come to the understanding that, as has been established beyond doubt, those points fees are no longer valid. There are plenty of posts to come up with. There's basically under-exhaustment on all budgets. There's actually just money left. The financial spokesman is also nodding yes. We can think about legalizing soft drugs. A range of measures are conceivable in order to ensure that legal aid remains at the same level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, as far as the CDA Group is concerned, we are having a rather premature debate. The Minister indicated in the budget that he would come forward with a plan by the summer. And it's not even summer yet. In this respect, it is still a little early to debate the substance of this issue. But still... This is a good opportunity to reiterate the position of the CDA Group in this discussion. Let us be clear: we also attach great importance to good legal aid, to good subsidised legal aid, but above all we attach great importance to good access to justice. I know how to work in law at the moment. I know a lot of lawyers myself through my previous work or private. I know how offices have shrunk, how few trainees have been hired and what that means for the future of the legal profession. I know how more work is done than earned. And it has to be different. There's been talk for years. There's a lot of reports. All ingredients are available to make choices now. The Minister has promised that he will come up with a plan around the summer, and if it's up to me, it may be for the summer too. For the subsidised legal aid, the formula PxQ=C applies. Politically the choice has been made that what we are now spending on legal aid is also the amount, not less. The Q represents the number of cases in which the system is invoked. The Van der Meer report offers opportunities to bring this Q down. And that doesn't require any negotiation with the lawyer. I call on the Minister to get what's possible as soon as possible. I am thinking, for example, of the recommendations made by Van der Meer regarding the negative incentives in the system or the role of the administration. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees the possibility of taking steps in the short term. Eventually the P will have to go up, because Van der Meer shows that lawyers get too little compensation for certain jobs. This cannot continue, but in my group's view this will have to be achieved mainly by reducing the number of cases in the system. Again, the need in law is high. The need to obtain or maintain good subsidised legal aid is undisputed. Access to justice is essential. Minister, the CDA also expects a lot from you. The time for investigations and talking is over. Please get to work with all parties and come up with a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'd like some clarification. There should be fewer cases. What are the plans you have for that? Is it a matter of excluding whole areas? Is it about "first come, first served" so you can go to trial until September and then no more? What exactly do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u16	I figured that out. If you look at the report, you'll get to recommendations 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 50 and 51. These are all proposals on matters in which, to name but not least, cassation is made but no funds are submitted. There are also a lot of Wmo cases, where municipal authorities, I think, are going to have to go down the road to see how it works out with the judge. I think it is the experience that many of these WMO cases are won by citizens. The municipalities are not in any way sufficiently confronted with the pollution of the system, at least not to a sufficient extent. In this respect I see a lot of possibilities, which are also identified and touched by Van der Meer, to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u17	That is indeed a very substantive answer. I cannot reconcile that with the desire to set a financial ceiling per se. I actually agree that we can investigate some of those cases. Maybe there'll be fewer cases. Well, I think we'd be doing a lot of citizens a favor. But what I don't get is that you're holding on to "anyway, you can't have a penny of it." I cannot entirely reconcile that with the substantive arguments that you have put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u18	I think you know that we have made a coalition agreement and that you are making choices in it. The impression may exist that money grows into heaven, but there are choices made to do things and not to do things. That is the basis for this. We are not alone in this, Mrs Buitenweg, because you, together with the parties who are now reporting to the interrupting microphone, made a counter-budget in the autumn. I've read it, and you, too, are spending zero extra cents on subsidised legal aid. Also because there are a lot of lawyers in the public gallery, I say: we can tell nice stories, but there must be money for it and there simply isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mrs Buitenweg, you may respond to Mr Van Dam's comment on GroenLinks, but you cannot enter into the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u20	The latter is very unfortunate, Mr President. It is a counter-budget within the frameworks that have been given, but of course these are not the frameworks that we have chosen. Look at the 1.4 billion for the dividend tax or a number of other choices that have been made. GroenLinks has indeed allocated more money in her election programme...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u21	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's right, that's right. So there are other choices made by GroenLinks, precisely to ensure that citizens can get their rights. So it would have decorated you if you'd mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u23	Then you've made your point, I guess. Let me see who got to the interrupting microphone first. Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr Van Nispen himself asked me to go for him, Mr President, so that is why. Thank you. Beautiful words should never be uttered if you do not then live up to them. So it's either one or the other. My question to you, through the President, is as follows. You yourself say that there is no more money, but you also think that the current model of income cannot be used. The question remains, then, what is the fair answer? You, too, must be honest, I say through the President. Does this mean that the income model will remain the same as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u25	I have tried to be honest in this, albeit at a certain level of abstraction. Eventually, we have to see how that works out, but PxQ=C. If you want to do something about the price in the system of subsidised legal aid, you will have to bring the Q down and so you will have to have fewer cases in which it is called upon. That's the honest story I'm telling here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u26	I conclude that it will be almost a year before we have a plan from the cabinet at all. In the meantime, it is noted that the social lawyer is emptying, that there are no more trainees, that firms are falling down. So now we have an acute problem. Sometimes the cost of the benefits has to be borne. Why don't you choose that when it comes to this particular point, when it comes to the award of points? It's about payment at the level of a senior policy officer. So we're not talking about maseratis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u27	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u28	What are we going to do in the time we are waiting for the cabinet's perhaps good plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u29	What we are going to do in the meantime is encourage the Cabinet to come up with plans as soon as possible. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr. Van Dam, I think you know the profession very well. And it also graces you that you were just at the demonstration, the toga protest. But a lot of research has already been done. You have many fine words about the importance of the profession for the rule of law. But there is a very clear report, which says: those points fees, they just don't add up anymore. They were last adopted 20 years ago and a great deal has happened in the meantime. Those point fees don't add up anymore, so if you just want to give them a reasonable fee, you're gonna have to take over. Can Mr Van Dam say here: this reasonable point fee, it should simply be introduced? Is it yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u31	I am not going to say in detail whether any proposal made by Van der Meer with regard to the point fee is correct or wrong. Because I think I have to give the Minister the space to finally come to something together with the profession. However, I agree in general that in a number of areas too few points are being allocated to the work to be done. I've read the report from front to back and from top to bottom. I am not very familiar with the content of jurisdictions such as personal and family law and administrative law, but I am familiar with criminal law. I understand what Van der Meer concludes. I don't want to take anything away from that either. I don't need to make the conclusions of Van der Meer... This often happens here when what is in a report seems displeasure. You won't hear me do that. There is a clear political choice to say that we have not been able to find more money than this for subsidised legal aid at the moment. In addition to this, I believe that there are other buttons in this report which are very worthwhile to turn on. This will enable us to maintain a sustainable system for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u32	It is a credit to Mr Van Dam that he says that something really needs to be done and that it needs to be taken on board. I'd rather he said that we should take over completely, but it does grace him. Then we can turn all kinds of buttons. We can think about the role of the government and about strengthening the first line and removing perverse stimuli from the system, but you can turn buttons until you weigh an us. You're never gonna find that big amount of money that's needed to catch up with 20 years of late maintenance, to make up for the 127 million, maybe it's a little less of a debt and to save the profession of idealists. Let's say we don't find enough measures to bring in 127 million. Is it then Mr Van Dam's conclusion that the Van der Meer Committee should ultimately find out with its undisputed proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u33	I have already said at the beginning that I do not mean that this debate is premature in that respect. We need to see what the minister's coming up with. On the basis of these proposals, we will have to see if what you say is true. Perhaps the somewhat optimistic view I am putting forward here is correct. We'll have to wait for that. I sincerely believe that I hope that the Minister will come forward with a letter, a proposal, as soon as possible. There's a lot down there. I've never been in contact with lawyers as much as I've been lately. And I notice that there are a lot of people in that world who say: there are things in there that we now have to make choices about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u34	I have a question through you, Mr President, to Mr Van Dam...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u35	Excuse me, I accidentally turned off your microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u36	It's almost becoming a reflex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u37	No, I'm not. I wanted to turn off my own microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u38	I was kidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u39	I know those jokes. I wanted to turn off my own microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u40	It's the first time I've made that joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u41	It's very deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u42	No, no, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u44	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u45	If you need legal aid, this might be the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr Van der Meer indicated that he had been given an impossible task. In view of the cabinet's starting points for that investigation, he says: that is not really possible; you can change everything at 52 points, but in the end money has to be added. We've set up a committee. That's done. Those are wise people, who have spent time and energy trying to figure this out completely, and they came to a conclusion. Now I hear Mr Van Dam say: I think it is possible, and I think we can do so within this budget. What do you base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u47	Let's talk about the impossible assignment. I also said it at the hearing last week: if you get an impossible assignment, you shouldn't get into it. Mr Van der Meer has started with his committee, so there is now a report. I see those 54 recommendations he made, not as a menu, as some sort of list of ingredients, and then you go into the kitchen and you have the dish he thought it should come out of. Choices have to be made. On the basis of this wonderful report, choices will have to be made. I don't read his report as instructions and then you just have to press the button and the television works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u48	No, I agree. It's actually pretty simple. I think this is a weird kind of spectacle for a lot of people. We have a car and we decide somewhere in 2013 to do no more maintenance. We decide to cut back. Then we see at some point that it doesn't run so well anymore. Then what happens in politics? We're gonna ask all kinds of committees to look into that. And they say: things are not going so well; you still have to do something about the brakes and the steering wheel, some ball bearings must be replaced and money must be added! You're holding on to that spectacle now, Mr. Van Dam. I admire your line of defense very much. You've read yourself crazy in the budgets so you can beat the others. You didn't do anything about it, but it's not. Mr Van der Meer's research is fine and he concludes: there must be money. I would like to ask you one more question: why are you putting that on the budget as it is? Also because we just give 1.4 billion taxpayers' money away to a number of big companies. You do, but the social lawyer, who really deserves it, you don't. Why do you make that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u49	Maybe I can end this. Mr. Azarkan, I've been driving 2CV for years. What Van der Meer actually says to us is: in this 2CV the wheels are almost leaking, the suspension system is on his hooves and that sort of thing. You actually want us all to put new tires and new feathers on it. I say a hundred men in a 2CV, you can't. You need to get some out of it and you just need to put in who's in it, and that's four people. Then that thing's gonna drive like a bulldozer. I think that's the discussion we're having here: there's just too many people in that car.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr President. In the Netherlands, access to justice must be guaranteed for all, and that is also at the heart of a rule of law for the VVD. In concrete terms, in this country, this generally means the involvement of a lawyer, who in our country has a procedural monopoly for most lawsuits. I therefore take seriously the signals from lawyers, who are also shown by the fact that so many lawyers have come here, that the quality of their work is affected by the current system of compensation. 'Cause that's not what the law-seeker deserves. I don't want him getting hurt. That is why I think it is sensible that the Minister indicated in that recent letter, Mr Van Dam, that he would like to come up with a joint approach with all the relevant parties for the future-proofing of legal aid in the Netherlands. Recently the Minister indicated: give me time until the summer. That's a few more months. The letter was dated from the end of November. The Minister states: I'm going to consult with the lawyer. I also read in the letter: I'm going to consult with congregations. I can imagine that he also calls on other organisations to come, for example insurers. I would also like to ask the lawyers: talk to the Minister, let us know what is going on, and see how together we can arrive at a framework whereby, in fact, within the current budgetary framework of the government agreement, agreement can be reached that the legal aid provider can also receive adequate compensation and the legal aid provider can really be helped with his problems. I think it is justified that the Minister should be allowed a few months to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u52	I have here a very good report from the Wolfsen Committee, I have here a very good report from the Barkhuysen Committee and from that I have the thick report from the Van der Meer Committee. In addition, over the last five years there have also been 62 talks and meetings from the lawyers to help the minister get ideas. I think it is almost understandable that Mr Van Oosten would like to give the Minister a few more months, but my question to him is what is wrong with the Van der Meer Committee's proposal. I do not hear him commenting on the substance. I haven't seen any scientific research that says, "What's being proposed over here, because then lawyers suddenly start making too much money." What is not right with the Van der Meer Committee's proposal to make the points reasonable again, to return to a reasonable remuneration which guarantees the quality of legal aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u53	It's too early to ask that question. Exactly the content of the letter, which has two sides, much less content than all the reports put together, but which does refer to those reports, indicates that in line with the story described in those reports and then in all conversations with all those organisations, a common approach must be taken to ensure that the seeker can be treated and served in the best way possible. That's what I want. In interrupting Mr Van Dam, you also asked: how exactly should we interpret all the recommendations made by Mr Van der Meer? Colleagues of yours asked that question. Let me say to that: let us see how we can shape things so that the seeker can be helped. That's the point. For that we use the Van der Meer report, for which we use the Wolfsen report and for which we also use the discussions that are going on or are yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u54	The letter to which the VVD spokesperson refers also contains an explicit threat: if we don't come out with each other, if you can't deliver 127 million in austerity measures, then we're going to opt for scenario two or three; that just means cutting the fees very hard, bringing the fees down even further. Anyway, I didn't even have a question about that. Mr Van Oosten does not say that this report is incorrect, and we have been dealing with the same fees for 20 years. Then this is the time, twenty years after that, to say: let's at least ensure that there is a reasonable remuneration again so that trainees can be hired again, so that young lawyers can be trained again, so that people can keep up with their literature, their library and you name it, to ensure everything that is important for the quality in the interests of the seeker. If you say yes to that new structure of points fees today, bring it back to a reasonable level and save legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u55	But the question is not whether Van der Meer's report is incorrect. The question is: how do you deal with the Van der Meer report and its various recommendations? Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a few final remarks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u56	How long do you think it will take for all those recommendations and all the efficiency measures you expect to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u57	I have just begun to refer to a remark, a commitment from the Minister himself. He says: give me until the summer, so a few months after now, to come up with a plan of action with all the organisations involved, also in line with the reports just referred to by Mr Van Nispen. I think we should be able to give the Minister time to see what we can come up with. I think I can see that timeline, too. I imagine that if you, me or anyone else do not like it then we will discuss it again. This debate is just a little early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u58	That wasn't my question. My question is how long do you think it is real that it will take for that plan of action to be effective? In other words, how long do we expect social attorneys to work for less money than is actually reasonable, as established by the Wolfsen Committee and now confirmed by the Van der Meer Committee? It's about a senior policy officer, no more than that. But they're under it now. How long do you think it's reasonable that they have to do it without that decent salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mrs Kuik asks me how long it takes for the plan of action, which is now being prepared and which the Minister has asked to give him until the summer, to be implemented. Then we need to know what's in it first, don't we? This debate is already under way. We have to wait until the Minister has been able to make concrete, based on the talks, what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u60	But Mrs. Kuik asked you how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u61	I say to you that I think it is justified that the Minister should take the time until the summer to come to such a joint approach in a responsible manner in consultation with all these organisations. If I have that, I can judge it, but I haven't got it yet, have I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u62	I found it interesting what Mr Van Oosten said, namely that the findings of the Van der Meer Committee are not under discussion. Does this mean that Mr Van Oosten acknowledges that there is structural underpayment of social lawyers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u63	What I would like to say is that I think that Mr Van der Meer's investigation, of the Van der Meer Committee, is sound and that I think it is very important that the Minister should also give this information to Mr Van der Meer himself. This means that I can consider many of the recommendations made by Mr Van der Meer to be of great value, but I am not going to comment on what I think is appropriate or inappropriate. Because I think you should see it in the interplay of the whole thing. The Minister, as he says, needs a little more time to do so, and I'm giving it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u64	That's a lot of text...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u65	I believe we have heard this answer a few times now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u66	No. What I have not heard is simply an answer to the question. A lot of things are said in Van der Meer, but I just have a question. One of the conclusions of the Van der Meer Committee is that there is structural underpayment, simply that there are many more hours worked than people are paid for. My question is, before we start talking about all kinds of solutions, we all obviously do this after the summer, but now we have to talk about the starting points: whether the VVD acknowledges Van der Meer's conclusion that there is structural underpayment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u67	What I want is for the seeker to be helped, and I want the seeker to be helped by a legal aid provider who will receive adequate compensation for that. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that I take the signals I receive from lawyers very seriously, but I am not going to talk about the design now. I really want to put that ball with the minister right now. He also indicates that he is working on it and he has asked us to give him until the summer to do so responsibly. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u68	Of course I give her Azarkan the chance to ask a question, another or perhaps the same one, but we do come in a lot of repetitions at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u69	No, Mr. Chairman. I have another question. I wonder what the VVD actually thinks of social law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u70	That's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u71	Short answer. It's possible. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u72	Do you think that the people working in the social attorney's office are currently being paid enough for the work they are doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u73	I believe that people working in social law deserve a decent wage. That's what I think they deserve. If you are going to ask us where we should go and if I think that it has been properly and adequately designed at the moment, I really refer you to the answers I have just given to your colleagues, namely that I think it is important that we ensure that the system of legal aid, which is unique in the Netherlands compared to many countries in the world, still exists for decades after us. Then I think it is really wise to think carefully about how we are going to shape that future-proof. That will take place in the coming months. I want the Minister to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u74	I have asked two simple questions and I get a very beautiful answer in the form of a kind of policy poetry. My question was very simple: do you think that people working in the social attorney's office are being paid enough at the moment? I note that you do not give me an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u75	You heard my answer. I believe that the whole system of legal aid, of which these social lawyers are a crucial part, should be able to earn a decent living. I believe that the seeker should be able to be adequately served. And I think there are some questions coming to us when it comes to the design. We must take the time to do so in the coming period. And then, of course, we are going to discuss this with each other. But I really think that this debate is too early in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u76	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u77	If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done, by the way. I would also ask the Minister to have another cup of coffee with the lawyers, as far as that has not already happened. Ask them about the man: what is going on, what can be done, what should be done and what can be done better? Just to hear what's going on. I think that is very important. In conclusion, I would like to say the following on a related subject. Mr Van der Meer also brought this up when it came to the hourly rates applied in the legal profession. I am also concerned about the possibility of creating legal inequality. Especially in family law, I can see that. Someone's suing, two people have a fraternity, arguing. One litigates on the basis of an addition and the other doesn't. I don't think whoever sues without the addition won't last long. I wonder if that is a good position and is sufficiently legal. So I ask the Minister to look at that as well. Finally, Minister, take a look at the other fine initiatives contained in that coalition agreement, which could perhaps be combined with them. I call neighborhood judges, mediations and innovations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen. Oh, no, I'm skipping Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks. Apologies. Things are going so wrong without you, Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u79	You did very well, Mrs. Leijten. I call Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday, the good news came that the Netherlands is on fifth place in the ranking of countries with the best legal systems in the world. Taking that top spot is all the better because the system has been under pressure in recent decades. Laws and regulations have become more complex. Justice seekers expect more help and guidance. Because of these changes, lawyers have to work more hours for their case. But the amount of money they receive when granting legal aid has not changed. Legal aid workers are therefore structurally underpaid, and they accept this in order not to leave citizens in the cold who are in trouble. So that's where our thanks fit. Together with the PvdA and the SP, I brought the protesters a flower today. But it might be better if the government just kept to its commitments. My simple question to the Minister is: does he recognise that there is structural underpayment? And does he also recognise the impact of this underpayment, namely that there is less money for additional training, that there is less money for training trainees and that we are therefore interning on quality in the longer term? As far as I am concerned, we do not have a deux-chevaux, because a deux-chevaux has just been phased out and that does not seem to me to be the future for social legal aid. Mr President, in view of the situation, I am ashamed of the Minister's letter, in which he calls on people in the social attorney to show their social responsibility. Where is the responsibility of this cabinet? The Minister's letter is harsh and threatening. Attorneys should be involved in useful proposals for revision of the system that do not cost money, otherwise... Otherwise, the Minister is considering, among other things, paying less for the legal profession. I mean, it's really there! My question to the Minister is, in my son's language, serious? Other options that the Minister apparently is considering are the exclusion of some types of legal aid or the implementation of a "first come, first served" system. For the seeker it is later in the year: unfortunately, peanut butter. Well, let's just take it seriously, just to be safe. Can the Minister clarify which jurisdictions he considers to be eligible for the exclusion of legal aid? And what does this mean for the division in our society, for the access to the right of people who cannot afford a lawyer at the full rate? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also believes that improvements can be made to the system, for example by the government itself looking critically at its role in bringing disputes with citizens. The Van der Meer Committee has proposed a structural assessment of how often the various administrative bodies have been wronged by the judge. Actually, I think that's a good idea. How does the Minister view this? In the end, the changes can best bring about a system that costs less, but as the bill is now placed in the social lawyer's office, that is not a passable path as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. Access to justice is a key factor in a democratic rule of law. There are many aspects to access to justice. The comprehensibility of regulation is important, but also the extent to which legal procedures are in place to solve everyday problems for citizens. The government agreement takes a number of good steps to improve access to justice. For example, the registry rights are not increased further, no courts are closed, so that people can go to court in their own region, and experiments are being conducted with local and debt courts, close to people, cheap and with the aim of getting things done quickly and definitively. Good legal aid also plays an important role in access to justice. Especially for people with a small scholarship and complex problems it is important to help them with a legal problem. It is clear that things are not going well in social law. There is therefore a need for a thorough review of the system. In recent years several reports have been written: Wolfsen, Barkhuysen, Van der Meer. It is now a matter of getting to work on that quickly. That assignment lies with the Minister. He indicated that he would come forward with proposals for revision before the summer. It is very important for D66 that the Minister closely involve the legal profession. I think it is necessary, first of all, for the Minister to restore confidence. Understandably, there is suspicion in the social attorney's office. The performance and statements of former Secretary of State, Teeven, are to blame for this. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to shape the process and, above all, how he is going to regain that confidence. Mr President, I see Mr Van Nispen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yeah, I can see that too. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u84	That's right, Mr. Chairman. We just heard the coalition partners of D66 admit that lawyers are underpaid. Mr Groothuizen, too, cannot ignore Van der Meer's conclusions. But we've just heard the CDA and the VVD say that there's not a penny to it anyway, because that's what we agreed on. Is D66 in there like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u85	I think Mr Van Nispen knows what the agreements in the coalition agreement are. They are indeed that we are going to revise the system, within the budgetary framework. That means that we can't just pull the wallet to add money, but we have to work very hard to find a solution within those frameworks. They're pretty spacious, because we spend 400 million a year on legal aid. That's a hell of a lot of money. That's also good, because it's very important. I think there is now an important task to get to work on with all those thick reports that you just had in your hand, so that we can sustainably reform the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u86	It is quite shocking to hear that the answer of D66 is "yes": there is not a penny added. You have been at the same round table as I have, where everyone said: we have to get to work with Van der Meer, because there has been underpayment for years, there is twenty years of overdue maintenance, and if we follow that scenario we will need 127 million euros. And yes, of course you can talk to the lawyers for the 63rd time and then there will be something possible within the system, but that is never going to happen, and you know that will also bring EUR 127 million. So you're actually saying, unfortunately, that we're gonna have the underpayment of the lawyer, and then we're gonna have all the negative consequences for the quality and the people looking for justice on the sale. Is that the point of view of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u87	I did indeed attend the same hearing, where I heard Mr Van Nispen, who was already in campaign mode at the time, say very often when he looked at the audience: everyone concludes that money should be added. I think it's much wider. There are 52 measures in the report of the Van der Meer Committee. A lot of other things have been mentioned. Now it is important that we get to work quickly and see how we can solve this problem. I regret that Mr Van Nispen is actually only in the groove 'there must be money, and if you do not add money, then you are undermining the rule of law'. To be honest, I think that you are failing in the discussion and that you are not very constructive either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u88	When the social legal aid was cut back in 2013, someone said: "Access to justice is a fundamental right for people in our rule of law. We should not allow this to be broken down by right-wing symbolism." My question to Mr Groothuizen is: who said this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u89	I must remain guilty of the answer, but it must have been someone representing my party!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u90	I will help you: that was Gerard Schouw, one of your predecessors. My question, which is actually quite simple, is next. This was the conclusion at the time. Why do you now take part in this right-wing symbolism policy and accept this? We can go do whatever we want. Why are you accepting this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u91	I think Mr Schouw was quite right. I think you have just heard me say similar words. Access to justice is very important. You have also seen what we all agreed in the coalition agreement to restore that access to justice. I have even heard other groups say good things about it. I think that, especially after a number of years of severe austerity among previous Cabinets, we are now heading up the road again. But that does not mean that the budgetary possibilities extend to heaven. We have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr Groothuizen just told my colleague Van Nispen that he was in a groove, because there had to be money. That was Mr Van Nispen's groove, which was not very constructive. But at least that groove is based on some reports. Mr Grothuizen has a different groove, and that is that there should not be a penny. My question is: where does your groove differ from that of Mr Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u93	That groove of mine is in any case made up of 52 different recommendations contained in the committee report and many other things we have heard. I think we should work very hard, indeed, to ensure that administrative bodies do not continue to sue unnecessarily, that our regulations improve and do not lead to procedures, that we may see if a lot of work done by social lawyers actually does not belong elsewhere, because lawyers are often also trying to solve people's problems about debt or addiction. At least I think that groove is much more multifaceted than just saying that it needs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u94	So we are going to work very constructively together. I hope so, too. For example, I heard you say something that I also support, for example, about the procedure of the government. So maybe we'll come up with a whole end. But, of course, that may not be the whole amount that is actually needed to ensure that the social lawyer is not underpaid. Do you think it is possible that if we have done all kinds of things in the coming year, that we still need money, just to keep quality high? So we've tried everything, but it's not worth 127 million. Then do you accept that it is possible that there should still be a few more pennies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u95	We're at the beginning of the process. The Minister has just begun to address this problem. I find it very complicated to speculate what will happen at the end of the process. So I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u97	As for D66...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u98	No, no, Mrs. Buitenweg. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u99	Finally, Mr President. For D66 it is very important that access to justice is maintained. In doing so, attention should be paid to quality and affordability, but also to the prevention of perverse incentives, such as cutting up things that can be better dealt with at once. I do not think that the solution lies either in a single adjustment or in a single measure. We need to look for a coherent set of measures that will ensure that the system of legal aid is future-proof for a long time. And we have to think broad about it. How do we avoid pointless procedures by administrative bodies? How do we ensure that people with a build-up of problems receive not only legal assistance, but also help to tackle these problems? I wonder how the Minister looks at that. I would also like to ask whether he agrees with me that we should, above all, look at this connection with, for example, debt issues and the role of administrative bodies in stimulating disputes. Is the Minister prepared to include such issues when he comes to this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr. Chairman. Become a victim of violence, end up in a divorce, or a rental dispute; they can all be reasons why you need a good lawyer, and they also need it very much. That is why it is so important that the right is accessible to everyone, even to people with not too big a wallet. That is why I am proud of the system of legal aid as we know it in the Netherlands. Not for nothing is the Netherlands in place one. This is mainly due to lawyers and to all those other people who are committed to maintaining that legal system in the Netherlands. But dark clouds are threatening, because adjustments are needed. I believe, and Mr Van Nispen said it first in this Chamber, that good steps can be taken to make the system smarter and more attractive. Lawyers are also very capable of making very good proposals for this. However, we already have a number of reports: the Wolfsen report, the interim report and now the report of the Van der Meer committee. If we are not careful now, we will be a year before there is a plan of action and that plan of action is being implemented at all. Meanwhile, the fact remains that we have established together that a standard of scale 12 is reasonable. Like I said, that's no more than the scale of a senior policy officer. We have seen with each other that the points allocation, as it is now, is not adequate. My sincere question to the Minister is: how long does he think it is reasonable that all those people who are now underpaid should not be compensated for the hours they are actually entitled to? Would it not be justified, apart from all the adjustments that you could make, both in the first line and in all the other measures that you can come up with, if, while waiting, these people were, in the meantime, given a fair wage, so that we could guarantee legal aid for the weaker in society in a good, qualitative way? I think this is a reasonable fact. We're not making that up because it's a political signal. We ask this because there are three reports below which we have taken a number of years. Mr. Chairman. Then the second question I have: what can we do ourselves in the meantime? Mrs Buitenweg rightly asked about the role of the government in the use of legal aid. But also: what do we do about future legislation? I hope the cabinet's getting steamed up right now. There are a number of legislative processes. What does that mean about extra pressure on social law? Will the Minister promise me he'll map this? I want to know what this legislation means to put extra pressure on the social lawyer. Mr. Chairman. It's too short, but this is my first term now. There will be a lot of further debates. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr. Chairman. When a person is involved in legal proceedings, they will usually need legal aid from a lawyer. Not everyone can pay those costs. For this situation, the legal aid is subsidised. If the income or the property of a seeker is not sufficient, the person concerned is eligible for an addition and pays only a certain amount to the lawyer, the so-called own contribution. The conditions and scope of that own contribution are set out in the Legal Aid Act. The lawyer shall then be reimbursed for the costs of legal aid granted through a system of points. It looks at the jurisdiction, the gravity of the case and the procedural acts carried out. This whole gives rise to a certain amount of compensation. However, it is never cost-effective; I also say this from my own experience. Today's debate is about the Commission's report on the assessment of points of award of funded legal aid, also referred to as the Van der Meer Committee. The task of this committee was to evaluate the award of points in the system of subsidised legal aid. The reason for this was the opinion of another committee, the Wolfsen Committee. It concluded that there was late maintenance in the evaluation of that allocation of points. As a result, the fees paid to lawyers are no longer proportionate to the work actually done. The Van der Meer Committee has calculated that if the award of points is dropped, an annual amount of 127 million, excluding VAT, should be paid to add-on grants to lawyers and mediators. But we must also remember that the previous cabinet has been making a cut that has once again recovered from this. The current cabinet and the coalition parties have chosen not to completely reverse it. Additional work has also been added along the way. Think of the interrogation and consultation assistance in criminal matters and the assistance in the so-called ZSM cases. This situation remains that way, because the coalition agreement says literally: "The system of legal aid is being revised... within the existing budgetary frameworks." Mr. Chairman. In the Minister's letter of 27 November last year, in response to the Van der Meer Committee's report, he said that many parties were involved in the provision of legal aid, not just lawyers and employees of the Legal Loket. But the Minister says that he wants to come up with a joint proposal within the budgetary framework of the coalition agreement to ensure that the judge gets a quick, easily accessible and adequate solution to the problem. But that's just a misconception of the essence of the matter and the sign to the lawyer himself, because it's about that point assignment. It's not about other legal aid workers, it's about the lawyers who do it. Then there's only one thing you can do: make choices and defend them. Completely reverse the austerity or explore scenario 2 and see if jurisdictions may need to be closed. I can't imagine that, but in the meantime, research it, because it's going to be scenario 2 and there's gonna be an investigation and then it's gonna take a couple of years. Or check whether there's something to do about the number of cases or stack procedures in asylum matters against or see what you can do in personal and family matters. But make a choice. The 127 million required is really not found by messing around in the margin or by pushing the hot potato forward. My group wishes the Minister every success in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u105	Mr President, thank you. If you don't give a lawyer that much time, then his defense won't be that much. This is a frank, but in particular a sad quote from director Fred Teeven, in a previous life Secretary of State for Security and Justice. The reason we are standing here today is because this was the policy of the previous cabinet. Lady Justitia is blind and that is a good thing too, because if she saw how this cabinet deals with legal aid, she would be ashamed of herself. Mr. Chairman. I have just read it: access to justice is a fundamental right for people in our rule of law. We must not allow this to be broken down by right-wing symbolism. What wonderful words from D66, a few years ago. And what a great turn they've made. Palingpolitics of the highest order: a lot of twisting, twisting and sniffling. The Van der Meer Committee gave its opinion on the system of legal aid. Van der Meer noted that the system is twenty years old, that there is late maintenance and that 170 million has to be added. The fact that money has to be added is not a bad thing, because we removed it first. 52 recommendations and what will the government do? Nothing. The government's gonna wait about nine months. We'll get a plan for the summer. Then it's gonna be a couple of months before we debate it. This government gives up 1.4 billion, taxpayers' money, structural funds, it is an annual sum to Shell and her buddies, but to the legal aid to the people sitting here nothing. Van der Meer Commission was given an impossible mandate by the Minister. She had to give advice on the system of legal aid, without increasing costs, to reduce the minimum income of legal aid lawyers and to change the hourly rate. That's an insoluble calculation. That can only be done in politics, an impossible task. It's like tying someone's arm behind their back and asking them to swim across the Channel. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. DENK is always looking for the balance sheet, and that is precisely what the rule of law is about. It's about the interplay between judges, the prosecution and the lawyers. These three pillars must be balanced. If you undermine the role of one of those pillars, the system will be compromised. How does committee chairman Van der Meer say it? "A well-functioning legal aid system is the foundation of the rule of law. Without proper legal aid, the rule of law is a theoretical concept." DENK wholeheartedly agrees with that. The starting point must be that the legal system is accessible to everyone, including those who do not have the money to pay a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for a 15-minute suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. A little longer, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u107	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr. Chairman. I believe that all the spokesmen have just begun to stress the importance of access to justice. I want to do that, too. Our rule of law only has value if people can make real use of it and rely on it. In the whole complex system of justice and the rule of law, the separation of powers, the various functions held by institutions and persons in them, lawyers also play an incredibly important role. By the way, I see a somewhat empty stand, but I'm sure they'll all be back soon. I am touched that there is a great deal of interest in this debate. I understand that, too. I can imagine that there are many lawyers who are concerned about their own practice, their own work, their clients sometimes, and at least their sector. The reports we are talking about today, in particular the report by the Van der Meer Committee, show that it has gotten stuck. The point fee falls short of reality. There are lawyers who do not receive adequate remuneration. People were just challenged in a number of interruptions. We just have to be honest about that being the bottomline of that report. We do not yet have a solution, but you can only find a solution if you face the problem. That's exactly how I want to proceed. I don't have any history on this file myself. It has advantages and disadvantages. The downside is that you have to work incredibly hard, and even then you may not quite know it yet. I'm sure that if you were to hear me today about all the points system ins and outs, you'd catch me on some of the things I don't know yet. In the discussions I have with parties and also with me in the Ministry, I sometimes ask these silly questions, of those questions that students once asked when I used to teach at the university. Actually, I liked those questions a lot, because they make me think again. "Why are we even doing it the way we organized it?" Maybe there's a little bit of an advantage in that, too. I want to be bold about this. I want it handled properly. I also hope that we will be able to leave behind the grumpy things that have arisen around these discussions, and my predecessor, Stef Blok, has said a few things about this. How do we restore trust between the Binnenhof, the Ministry of Justice and the field, the social lawyer? I think that's gonna be a lot of coffee. It's about getting interested in the important work that's being done, taking into account the problems and seeing what steps you can take to solve them. The report of the Van der Meer Committee is an important input. I didn't hear anyone today saying, "It doesn't make any sense what's in there." At the same time, I think that the scenarios that Van der Meer outlines are four unsatisfactory scenarios. The first scenario is: spend more money on legal aid. I hear part of the Chamber say that that is the scenario that one would like to embrace. Perhaps that would be real if the Netherlands were a country which, relatively speaking, pays very little money for legal aid. But compared to many other countries in Europe, the Netherlands is doing well with the more than 400 million earmarked for this purpose. The Netherlands is not on the low side. It is substantially higher compared to Belgium or France. It is not 10% or 20% higher, but sometimes two or three times as much as in a number of other countries where we believe that their legal system meets a number of requirements as laid down in international and European treaties. The other three scenarios I was challenged to do so; it was said that in my letter I also find far from ideal. I wouldn't want to work with that either. Maybe I wrote it down a little too short, from the idea that the assignment with which I was sent from the coalition chord does it along the lines of Van der Meer, but within the existing budgets means that you have to choose scenario two, three or four. But I don't really want to. I do not think that this is a scenario that does justice to the problem and to good legal aid in the Netherlands. In other words, we have to come up with something else. I think we can do that, too. The Van der Meer report looks at whether the current system is satisfactory and whether the allocation and allocation of points are satisfactory. It doesn't say anything about what you can do to change the system. I think that the solution lies not in turning the buttons of the current system, but in keeping the present system itself in a more fundamental light. That is the task with which I like to go and with which your Chamber has also sent me on the road in a majority on the occasion of the Groothuizen motion. Some of you asked me the question: but how do you think you're going to do that? Let me do two things. First the trial. I'm not gonna steer back on any new investigations and fat reports, because we have them now. Nor do I intend to go behind the drawing board in the ivory tower of the ministry and then see if there is support for that in the outside world. I think it makes sense to look with a lot of parties at ways of shaping the system in a different way so that it can work out. These are, of course, the legal profession, as well as municipalities, the Legal Assistance Council, the Legal Loket and outside parties, such as insurance companies, legal aid insurances and so on. In doing so, there is access to the right for people who cannot afford one-two-three, but lawyers also receive a decent remuneration for the work they do. If I go into such a process, you can't expect me to tell you exactly what that should look like. At the same time, I understand that you would like to know exactly what I am thinking of. Isn't it some kind of mission impossible and I'm not coming back with the story in six months' time: we've looked at it again and we've come to the conclusion that it can't be done at all? I really do see perspective there. I will mention a number of dimensions that I am looking at. I think we should seriously consider what we can do about limiting the influx. Many of you have pointed out that very many of the issues in which assistance is now provided are actually matters in which the government itself is an important party. Can't that be any less? There's no other way? That's a very fair question. It is sometimes also in the way we have set up our legal system. Look at family cases, divorce cases, for example. It is sometimes better, not only from the perspective of affordability and sustainability of the legal aid system, but also for parents and families, not to go through endless litigation in the courtroom, but to see if you can't settle conflicts at a much earlier stage. That is the operation André Rouvoet is working on, but of course you could translate it into many other jurisdictions where perhaps too long is going on, or there is going to be far too fast to go to court while we can solve things in a different way, lovingly. I want to take a serious look at that. I will, of course, discuss this with municipalities, including in the social domain. You could also look at multi-problems. There is also an interesting idea about this in the Van der Meer report. In the case of multi-problems, there are many problems in one and the same family, but this leads to different cases involving different forms of assistance and not to the automatic solution of the problem. If we can do more, justice and justice are not only an end in themselves, but will lead to a solution to a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u109	Many other things have already been said, but I immediately referred to the international comparison. The minister said there's a lot of money going into the system when you compare it internationally. Then I think: we are now part of the top international comparison because lawyers accept that they work much more than they get paid for. Does the Minister accept that the quality and access in the long term, if he does not want to add more money, can go down? He says that there are countries with which it is quite acceptable. Is that where he wants to go? Or is it his ambition to stay on top?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u110	It's my ambition to stay on top. I think Mrs Buitenweg refers to a report that came out earlier this week, a sort of ranking. It was new to me, but I do know such rankings from universities. In this ranking was how countries do it when it comes to the solidity of their legal system, of their system. We are indeed at the top, together with a number of Scandinavian countries. I myself referred to international competitions that look at how much money a government invests in its system of legal aid. I see that the Netherlands, with a number of Anglo-Saxon countries, is spending relatively much money, also per capita. Those aren't percentages. In some countries it is two or three times as much as in others. That strengthens me in the idea that, if we look at our system more fundamentally, we should be able to come a long way with the money we already spend on legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u111	But are you also saying, as you suggested in your letter and as I was hoping you would come back a little bit, that in the end it is possible that the lawyer gets less paid by the hour than is now promised? Or do you say: no, that is unacceptable; we are going to change the point count because lawyers should be properly paid for the work they do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u112	I'm all about that last one. It must lead to a sustainable system whereby people are paid decently for their work. You can discuss this, I can see that scale 12 and so on; I am not going to get stuck on that now, but these people are doing work for which they must be highly educated. That also means that they have to earn properly. So that's rather not a crane I'm turning on. If someone wants to choose that course and that course but doesn't have a good reward for it, you don't get people anymore at some point. There is this concern today, which is that if the points system is no longer in line with reality, it will be at the expense of practices and that a number of things to train young people will get in the way. I'm worried about that, too. I also feel responsible for the system as a whole. Lawyer practices are private organisations, and as a government we are not in favour of maintaining every practice, but that is not the purpose of legal aid. Legal aid must provide access. We need the lawyers to do that, so it must be an attractive profession and, as far as I'm concerned, stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u113	It is indeed the responsibility of the government to provide legal aid for people who cannot afford it themselves. Furthermore, I felt that the Minister had begun promisingly. He said that Fred Teeven had made stupid statements, that the trust of the lawyers should be restored and that in his letter there was a threat that was a bit annoying. So I thought that was very good. The Minister also said that he acknowledges that there is no adequate remuneration now. But if that is fully recognised, is there not only one conclusion possible? Apart from the fact that you can talk, have coffee and think about improvements to the system, will you still have to take over annex eight of the Van der Meer Committee? This is due to an adequate remuneration. Can the Minister now say: I am going to think about improvements to the system, but the compensation will eventually have to reach a reasonable level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u114	In the end, I believe that the remuneration for the work done should be at a reasonable level, but that does not mean that I can turn out a bag of money to do that one-two-three. And I'm not willing to do that either. Looking at the system and how much money is involved in legal aid, I am convinced that with that money available in the Netherlands, over 400 million, we should be able to provide good legal aid, but perhaps in a different way than we are doing now. Mr Van Dam spoke sensible words. He said that perhaps too many cases are assisted because they are too easy to go to court or because perhaps the government is making too much of a contribution to the number of cases that have been done or because there may be all kinds of perverse incentives in the system that are costly. So I think we should look at that. One of the first things I want to look at then is the question of what we can do to limit the influx. This not only offers an advantage for the affordability of legal aid. Of course you have to be able to go to court when it's really necessary, but I think it's much better for a lot of people if you can take off a dispute in an early and less heavy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u115	That is possible and a lot of research has already been done on how this can be done and many cups of coffee have already been drunk on it. I'm not even gonna tell the minister he can't do that. He can think about it and come up with proposals and try to convince the Chamber that you could limit the influx of cases in a state of law. I await those proposals. However, the compensation must be reasonable in the end and the social lawyer must be given a reasonable remuneration. That's not the one right now. To our simple question today to say that these lawyers will receive a reasonable remuneration and to accept Van der Meer's conclusion on that point, the Minister says: no, I am not going to do that now. Well, that's disappointing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u116	I've outlined to you what I want to work towards. This means good legal aid in the Netherlands and access to the law and, at the same time, a decent remuneration for lawyers who then do the work in it. I think Mr Van Nispen and I agree on that. I only hear Mr Van Nispen say that if you find that this is not the case, that is in fact what Van der Meer is saying, and I think we agree that this is where you really need to get over, also financially. And I don't see any possibilities for that. I don't have 150 million on my budget anywhere. I don't think it's reasonable to take it away from the police or the judiciary either. You know the financial problems that the J and V ministries have had in recent years. It's not fat. So I want to look fundamentally at this system to see how we can bring it back into balance, for example by reducing inflow and with a number of other things that I am thinking of and which I would like to tell you later. These are areas of thought which I would also like to discuss with the sector itself. These are matters which, as far as I am concerned, are dealt with as quickly as possible, but which, in the long term, lead to a system that is sustainable and that can meet two conditions: access and a decent remuneration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u117	I wonder if the Minister can indicate on the basis of which the Van der Meer Committee came up with these 52 recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u118	The Van der Meer Committee has carried out research into the adequacy of the current points system. It comes to the conclusion that this no longer really meets reality. The question has not been addressed to the Van der Meer Committee, which is why I should also like to go a step further, what you can do to review the current system. I do not believe that we are going to solve the challenges here by turning small buttons. I think we should take a more fundamental look at some things. Then you have to look at the influx. I would also like to say a few words about how the system is financed, how it is managed and about technological developments. These can all be elements in a new system that I would very much like to discuss with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u119	Do I understand correctly that the Minister wants to take part in the same round as the Van der Meer Committee, but does he himself carry out research and discuss research questions with the Council for Legal Assistance, the Council for Justice, the lawyers, the organisations and the municipalities? Am I to understand that he's going to make that round?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'm going to make a round with lots of parties and I'm going to talk, but I'm not going to do the work of Van der Meer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u121	Clear. The minister just indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u122	Your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u123	Yes. The minister just indicated all the directions he's going to investigate. I'll ask him exactly what he's going to investigate. In that sense, it's a follow-up to his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u124	I want to seriously see what we can do to limit the influx. I mentioned a number of examples, but I'm sure that if you start talking to municipalities and also to lawyers themselves, they themselves have ideas about how to do things differently. There is so much thought in this sector that it should be possible. Again, that is not only because of the affordability of the system, but also because I truly believe that it is better for all concerned to nip conflicts in the bud than to bring them to justice. So I really want to get to work on that. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u125	Yes, Mrs. Buitenweg is back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u126	I'm trying to get some ideas on exactly what's going to make 127 million. The minister himself said that the system costs about 400 million. He said he's gonna go for a round right now to see where there's some money left to get. That is something I can talk about too, because I do not feel like throwing public money over the bridge either. But I cannot imagine that there is now a proposal, certainly not in Van der Meer's proposals, which is going to make 127 million, while maintaining a very good legal system which guarantees people's access to justice. Could you just mention a few things that may not be worth 127 million, but a good 100 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u127	If we can make a serious blow at limiting the influx, then I think that could be a huge blow. We can look at another form of funding. We can look at technological innovations. At the big law firms much more is done on dispute resolution. I'd say automated. It's really fascinating to see what's going on there. You should never want to do that completely "legal tech," but it can help to do it in a different and perhaps cheaper way in the case of conflict resolution and legal aid. Those are all things I'd like to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u128	I believe that we can agree that these technological improvements can produce some results, but that will not be the big blow. So the big blow is in a limited influx. That means, I think, that fewer people can benefit from legal aid. The second is another funding. This means that people have to pay more for themselves or else the lawyer gets less money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u129	Look, it's got to come from somewhere. Again, a lower influx is not necessarily negative. If people have to go to court because there is no other way to solve a problem, then that road must be open. But I also see in many ways that the road to justice may be taken too easily, or sometimes even read the reports'successive' with state subsidies. Those are negative incentives I want out of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr. Chairman. I said something about limiting the influx. I would also like, more at meta level, to look seriously at the funding of the system. The Wolfsen Committee has also said a few things about this. I want to keep that under serious review and discuss it with all parties. You can then think about what you can do with tenders or with fund formation. What can you do with the sector with the possibilities in the programme or with pro-Deo work? I also mention the commercial legal profession. There have been previous ideas, including those of law firms themselves, who have said: we must seriously consider what we can do for our own sector as well. Those are things that are also applied abroad. It may lead to discussion, I believe, immediately but I think we can and should discuss it. The third is the installation and control. Can we perhaps think of a shift to the first line? The use of paralegals has been discussed several times, including in reports. It's serious things to weigh and discuss. I was talking about technological developments earlier. Of course, we want to take them with us. Mr. Chairman. Mr Groothuizen asked: are you going to look at a coherent system, including with other administrative bodies? The suggestion has been made to look at the chances of success of public authorities going to trial. I do not want to pre-empt things too much, but you might consider that if they lose the case, public authorities who sue should, in a manner of speaking, compensate for legal aid. In doing so, you build incentives, not for the government, but for other governments and for executives, that it is not too easy for them to take action without, so to speak, bearing the cost of it. It is a shift of the issue, but these are also things where I can see possibilities. I'd like to start that discussion in full width. Mrs. Buitenweg asked which jurisdictions I'm going to rule out. The commitment of the coalition agreement is clear. The commitment is to consider in principle whether we can simply include all jurisdictions. Mr Van Oosten asked me to build a bridge to a number of other intentions in the coalition agreement. There is, of course, something about the revision of the legal aid system, but I do see a number of parallels. Let me mention two. Firstly, the debt approach. I was standing here last week with my colleague Tamara van Ark. We see that canton judges sometimes pass up debts without solving a problem. Some of the legal aid goes into this sort of thing. And you might be wondering if people were really helped with that in the end. Can't we make it easier and better in the lives of normal people by trying to avoid problems at the front? This can also benefit legal aid. Again, the government plays an important role in this. Another example is the ambition of the judiciary to look much more closely at whether judges bring more into the neighbourhoods: the idea of neighbourhood judges. The whole process is then less rigged and less heavy and closer to the people themselves. That's why you're in the process a lot earlier and maybe you can do it faster. You may wonder whether it should always be rigged as hard as problems can be eliminated in another way. I want to take a serious look at this, and that also offers opportunities and prospects for this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u132	There are some sympathetic things being mentioned now. Earlier my eyebrows started frowning very much, but I cannot forbid the Minister's thinking, as I have already said. Now there are other things coming along. Everyone wants debt problems to be solved better. We can easily agree on that. But in what way does that solve the problem of the heavy underpayment of social lawyers at the moment and the fact that that harms the quality of legal aid? That's what this is about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u133	This is a very valid point, but if we manage to reduce the influx significantly by solving problems much earlier, then the number of cases requiring assistance will be reduced, which will allow more space to pay better the hours spent on business. Of course, that also has its impact on the sector of social law. If we manage to reduce the influx by half, that means that fewer people are also needed for assistance. You can then reward those people in an orderly manner. That's exactly the route I want to walk down. It is not an end in itself to continue or keep a sector with public subsidies in the air. We need them very much in the cases where assistance is really needed, as a burden resort, but if we manage to resolve conflicts at a much earlier stage or solve much lighter, then that's worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u134	We all want to solve problems better, but the minister always starts with the money. He says that this is the bag of money that is available for it, so if I want to give the lawyers a reasonable compensation, which is in the interests of the system, then I will have to limit the influx. I think that is a bit of a dangerous statement, if I may put it that way. Because if that is not going to work, if it is not going to succeed in limiting the influx in a state of law so that you can pay the lawyers a fair rate, then it is "unfortunately." Then we have to rule out jurisdictions either in the unjust state and with the blunt axe, or I know a lot what, or there is no fair reward. What I want to hear from the Minister: does he exclude that there will be only one euro? Is that really the message of this debate here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u135	I'm not gonna preach here whether there's more money in it, any more than I'm gonna say it can be 20% less. If you look at other countries, they spend significantly less on legal aid than the Netherlands. But I don't want to go there. It seems to me to be good for thinking of the current budgetary frameworks, precisely the task set out in the coalition agreement. Why? Because in the end that also matures the spirits not to fall into a discussion of: we have the current system with points and it doesn't satisfy, so there needs to be more money. That's gonna be just a nasty discussion. As a country, we have quite a budget, a substantial budget. We really need to be able to do it with that. I am convinced: we can do it smarter and better, but then we have to revise the system, then we really have to do it in a different way. Then we need to make some more fundamental choices. It is very helpful in this discussion to get more creative ideas on the table, and that is exactly why I am really sticking to those budgetary frameworks and not saying: if it all does not work, then perhaps more money should be added. Because then I know one thing for sure, namely that there are parties again who think: well, in the end there is always that way. I really want to close that road. I just want to be clear. I was sent out with a clear message. I am convinced that this should be possible, even if I look at a lot of countries around us...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u136	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u137	...and that's what I'm going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u138	I'm gonna make a lame comparison. It makes sense that if I manage to put less in my mouth for the next six months, I'll probably lose five kilos in six months. So I'm willing to assume that you've lost less money to the social attorney in an x-number of months or years with a smart plan of action, but that doesn't mean that in the meantime you're still dealing with people who are working at too low a rate, with interns who run away, with quality under pressure. My question to the Minister is therefore: how long does he think it is reasonable that these people should continue their work underpaid? Love work, old paper, I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u139	As far as I'm concerned, we'll move on to action as soon as possible, but we'll have to get everyone around the table. That's what we're working on incredibly hard. You sent me on the road with the order to come around the summer with the results. I cannot immediately take an advance on the question of how much time it will then take to carry it out and carry it through. I hope it will take as little time as possible, because I also see that it wrings and that everyone needs peace and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u140	We've been discussing this for four or five years. I think I'm going to be more successful in my weight loss than you will be able to make a successful plan of action in the short term, and that really says something!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u141	I'll hold you to that, Mrs. Chicken!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u142	That's the challenge I'd like to face.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u143	I almost make it a caricature, but so do you, Minister. Because I don't think it's going fast. Change takes a lot of time. We've been talking about this for 20 years. We have now taken five years to achieve a fairer standard, namely scale 12. A second report confirms that there are indeed more hours worked than the hours for which they are paid. Then it is also fair to conclude that those people get a decent salary in the time you are working on all these changes and improvements. They do it for something: for the vulnerable in society. I conclude that you are taking a lot of time, but in the meantime you are not doing anything for those people who already need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u144	I can see the pressure. That is exactly an encouragement for me to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u145	I think the concern, including in the gallery, is that we are going to a situation where the political operation to get out of this mess may have succeeded, but in the meantime the patient has died. Perhaps the Minister would like to come back to this at a later date, but would it not be wise to follow up on some of the recommendations that can be made, including the atmosphere of lawyers? As an example, recommendation 43: extends the decision on administrative costs by providing that the administrative judge may order higher costs. I think a lot of coffee would matter if the government showed that it didn't just have to come from the legal profession, but that it also took measures to take the first step. I would like it as much as the Minister would like to say that he wants to take steps in the short term, a bit ahead of the music.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u146	I don't want to do that either than after we've sat around the table and talked about these things widely, because before you know it, you get to act solo again and everyone says: they were nice words when you said you'd do it together. But if there are things that can be done quickly, as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to wait. I am also assured that in the summer, when we have ideas about how we are going to revise the system, there will be elements that can be quickly included. A number of elements may take a little more time. So it's not some kind of bigbang scenario. We have to do everything in time. Quick wins, things that can be done quickly, we're going to do fast, but for some maybe more fundamental things we might need to take some more time off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u147	I understand that answer. I also understand that it is wise not to do something on your own. I welcome this answer. Know in any case that as far as my group is concerned, you have every opportunity to do what is needed in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u148	I'll take that as an invitation. At least I'll feel free to come your way before the summer as well, if we have things. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Van Oosten asked about the family law cases in which you have two parties, one of which has an addition and the other does not. What about the cost of defence in the context of legal inequality? I will also pay attention to this in the conversations I have. Van der Meer discusses the perverse incentive for divorce cases. Rouvoet will also deliver an opinion on this at the end of this month. I hope there are useful leads in that. I'll take it with me. Mr Van Nispen asked for an overview of the state's legal expenses. Of course, I do see the differences in rates between the social sector and the commercial sector. I do not think there is any point in getting them all together, because I need my people incredibly much to get to work on solving and reviewing a sustainable system of legal aid. But perhaps Mr. Van Nispen meant that more invigorating. The same applies to the cost-benefit analysis. That question has already been asked in the budget: shouldn't you see how it turns out? I want to have a good pass-through when we come to you in the summer to show you what it costs and what it yields, not only in terms of the spreadsheet and what is under the line, but also in terms of society. I hope then for a good debate in which I will allow you to make that social cost-benefit analysis. Finally, the point raised by Mr Van Nispen. He says: to some extent, the pressure on social lawyers is also the result of increasingly complex laws and regulations, I do not want to say 'cost increases'; can we not look seriously at them when laws are made? I think that is a very sensible point. As a government, we always carry out implementation tests in legislation. I will make sure that this element is well anchored in it, because I would like to have all the implementation effects, not only for the implementation services but also, for example, for this system, clear when we submit legislation to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that this is not a satisfactory debate for many, perhaps even in the gallery, because of course you are waiting for answers. For that it may be too premature now, but I am going to work very hard to at least have a quick conversation and to come your way towards the summer with detailed plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u150	Mr. Chairman. Now that it has been established beyond doubt that social lawyers have been heavily underpaid for years, there is only one conclusion possible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, following the report of the Wolfsen Commission, the independent Van der Meer Committee was instructed to evaluate the percentage points for each category of case;]] [[noting that the Van der Meer Committee concluded that the actual time spent by legal aid providers in the subsidised legal aid was not at all in line with the number of points awarded;]] [[calls on the Government not only to improve the system of subsidised legal aid, but also to adopt the opinion of the Van der Meer Commission on the assignments of points as developed in scenario 1 and thus to bring the number of points to be allocated back into line with actual time spent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the subsidised legal aid is considered to be purely a cost, while at the same time avoiding much more social costs;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the financial and social returns of the subsidised legal aid and to inform the Court of its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Buitenweg, Kikken and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-145]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Buitenweg, Kikken and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr. Chairman. It would really be a very disappointing outcome of the debate if we all concluded here that lawyers are heavily underpaid and we do nothing for the time being with the undisputed Van der Meer report. I do not think that can and should not be the outcome of the debate. If we say they're underpaid, we have to say today that we're going to do something about it. That's what we all have to want. Otherwise, the toga protesters will be here next time with the double number. I wouldn't wish them that, even if it was very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u152	And not at the same time as the farmers from Groningen, because we also need to agree on that. Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now turn to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall be brief; I only have one minute, by the way. I would like to wish the Minister every success over the coming months in working out his intentions and in engaging in the many discussions with all these various organizations. I think that this debate has shown to a sufficient extent that the Chamber is on top of that. I believe that this applies to all groups, including the VVD group. As a VVD, we want a sustainable system of legal aid for him or her who has a problem, who has a question of law, who needs the assistance of the judge and who needs the assistance of a lawyer in those cases where this is necessary. We need that now, but we're gonna need that in 30 years. That is why I want a sustainable system to be sought. I await the Minister's findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you. I now go to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks. How many motions do you have, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion from myself and one from Mrs. Chicken, which I'm still trying to catch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u156	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yeah? Okay, thank you. I thought it was an intense debate, Mr President. What stays with me is that I still don't know who the content is for a ceiling, a financial ceiling. The minister says his hands are tied and the coalition partners refer to the coalition agreement. The only answer I get is actually that it's necessary to have some kind of pressure on the boiler. But it is not the profession that is the reason why we are not making some changes. Well, I'm stuck with that, and that bothers me. But I know I have to go to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Van der Meer Committee recommends that, with a view to increasing the impact of its own procedural conduct, more monitoring be carried out on the cost judgements of administrative bodies;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for an annual overview of the total number of cost assessments per administrative body and to inform the Chamber of progress in avoiding unnecessary procedures as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg, Van Nispen, Kuik and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u158	Very soon, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Chicken's motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Van der Meer Committee finds that the financing of the subsidised legal aid does not take sufficient account of the fact that new legislation can increase the gravity and complexity of cases;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate, by means of new laws or regulations, the impact on the system of subsidised legal aid and, if necessary, to provide adequate funding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg, Kuik, Van Nispen and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u159	I have a question for Mrs Buitenweg. She's now filing a motion, I think the first one. One of the recommendations in Van der Meer's report, number 44, is: "Managing bodies should report annually on the number and extent of cost assessments in appeal and appeal proceedings to the administrative board." The same applies to Recommendation 51, which takes into account the impact on the legal profession of the effects on new legislation on hours of work. That is what Mr Van Nispen was just talking about, I think. Do you now think this should be dealt with separately before, or should the Minister take this into account in what he does? I just don't get it. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u160	Of course, I should have made a reference. I didn't make it up myself. It is indeed from Van der Meer's report. Yeah, I think we can do that now. That's what I think. In fact, I think it is very good, also for the six-month discussion, that we have made it clear how often it is that the administrative bodies are carrying out procedures that our citizens are stuck with. I think it's helpful to have a look at ourselves, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u161	I think it is a very good proposal, but I was wondering whether you would like to have it dealt with immediately or whether you would value it more than the other recommendations. That is why I am asking you this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u162	A motion on one of the most important recommendations on this subject has already been tabled by Mr Van Nispen. I also want it monitored as soon as possible. These are a number of other recommendations. As far as we're concerned, we're going to speed it up. I would very much like to sit down with you to see which of the recommendations we can make as soon as possible, so as far as I am concerned, a hand put out to ensure that it is all as short as possible and that we can really move quickly towards a reform and a better payment of the social lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u163	I understand that there is going to be a lot of coffee, so that can also be done between Mr Van Dam and Mrs Buitenweg. You look at me, Mr. Van Dam, but I want to thank you. You may also make use of your term. That's not a problem. Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u164	I'll be very brief. In any case, I would like to say that I want to have a lot of coffee with Mrs Buitenweg, but I would very much like all these measures to be looked at by the Minister. So I don't think I'm going to support that motion. Thank you for your flexibility, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you. Thank you, too, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK. Yes, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm gonna be stuck with the next feeling. You work with heart and soul every day as a social lawyer and you get too little paid for it; this is evident from many reports. The Minister's answer is then: wait a while, I'm going to study it again, and I'm trying to take away as much of your work as possible. I'm gonna keep finding that hard. I am confident that the Minister will come up with a wonderful advice and plan of action, but it will take some time. Mr President, I have one motion. It goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Legal Loket has been faced with cuts which have closed counters, reduced opening hours and increased telephone charges;]] [[noting that calling the Legal Loket costs 25 cents per minute and that the cost may amount to €12,50 per call excluding the usual calling costs;]] [[calls on the Government to provide financial compensation to the Legal Lotet so that the call rate can be abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u167	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. I'll go over the motions immediately. The first motion, in part No. 145, I advise. I do that for all kinds of reasons. Firstly, implementation costs money, and that is not provided for in this motion either. But this is also an old system on which I have at least come to the conclusion that we really should review it fundamentally. So I'd rather get to work on that last one. Mr President, the motion on item No. 146 I also advise against. I really think that we should take a broad look at the social impact, but that we should do so especially when we have the contours of a new system. I would like to stress once again that I regard good legal aid not as a cost, but as a fundamental principle of our legal system. Then there are Mrs Buitenweg's motions. The first one...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr Van Nispen, on the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yes, one more question about the motion in part No. 145, because we can't figure out the money. The minister says this costs money. Yeah, that's true. That's what we're willing to do. I think that is a good reason to discourage a motion, but what I do not think is a good reason to discourage a motion is to say: no, because I want to change the system, so I do not think that I should grant the lawyers reasonable compensation. That's actually what you're saying. So the discussion about whether it costs money or not, we may not get out of it. But you do not mean to say that in the new system that I see before me, the points fees no longer have to match the actual time spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u171	We just talked about that in great detail. I believe that the outcome of a revised system should ultimately be that lawyers should be entitled to a reasonable remuneration for the work done. I see it's pinching there now. The question is whether it should be with a point system. I don't know about that at all. Maybe we should work in a very different way. So if it is said in advance that we actually have to work out Van der Meer's scenario 1, then I notice two problems: then you are actually going to put a lot of time and energy into a system that you say is pinching and you also know that it costs money at the back, which is not there at the moment. So I want to take a fundamental look at the case, and that's something other than this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u172	Don't have the discussion again; we just had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u173	No, we're not getting out of this, and that's disappointing. But then I come to the motion in part No. 146. It asks the government to investigate the possible benefits of the legal aid system, and the Minister says: I find that interesting, but I do not want to do so until later. That seems like a really weird moment, because we're thinking about a new system right now, aren't we? If the Minister says he doesn't want to spend an extra penny on it, because that has actually been said here today, unfortunately he is not prepared to see what it costs us if we don't take care of it properly. So that motion doesn't really say that much. He just wants an investigation, and then you say, "I don't want that until later." I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u174	It's an interesting discussion, though. On the one hand, I have just been accused in the debate that there are already so many reports and now Mr Van Nispen is asking for another report. I would very much like to talk to the sector to see if we can move towards a more sustainable system. I also offer you that, if we do that, we will show you what the revenues and costs are, but also what the social effects are, so that you can make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u175	Is there a deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u176	The Chamber has previously adopted a motion which instructs me to proceed and come forward with a proposal by the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u177	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u178	Then the motion to part No. 147. I am going to discourage it because I actually support Mr Van Dam's speech. You now take one recommendation from Van der Meer and leave the rest for a while. I'd like to take this with me. I really do see a number of opportunities in this, but I would like to look at it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u179	Very briefly, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u180	Let me ask you this: I do not think there is any way in which this interferes with all kinds of ideas about a new system, although I think it is quite far that we are really talking about completely overthrowing the current system, but well. This proposal calls for an annual overview of the total number of cost assessments per administrative body. That just gives insight into something. Surely that doesn't conflict in any way with ideas about how to put together a new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u181	I'm not saying it's contradictory either, but I just want to have a conversation with all the parties to see how they imagine this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u182	That is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u183	... because of course this is a lot of paperwork. There's gonna be a lot of money in there to get all that over the table. If that is useful and has a moderate effect on the costs of legal aid, then I think we should do it. But I'd like to start the conversation before we make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u184	And is there really nothing you want to promise us? I'd like to ask you that. We're doing the best we can here. The only effect this can have is a moderate effect. It will not have an effect that some administrative bodies say: well, I have so few of those cost judgments, there has to be some more. So it can only have a positive effect. Can you not think: let us take a positive look at that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u185	I'm not saying I'm not gonna do anything with it, am I? I just want to take a serious look at how big that moderating effect is, because it also takes a lot of time, energy and therefore money to do so. Well, then it's really gotta be substantial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u186	The motion in part No. 148.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u187	I just said something about that. I like that motion but it goes too far to embrace now, so I'm gonna betray her. This also has to do with the technical aspect. When we do execution tests, we always make them clear to Parliament. You can involve them in the legal proceedings. However, it is not always automatic that any costs for implementing services, and hence for legal aid, will be compensated. That's a balancing moment; that's up to you. This motion is just going one step further, which is why it's not recommended. Mr. Chairman. I also advise against the last motion, in part No. 149. In my view, this is not the biggest issue of legal aid, but if you would like to do it already, it needs cover and it is not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-9.u188	Thank you. That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister and also the people in the public gallery who have followed this debate.
