ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Linde, on behalf of the VVD, for his questions on the report that a pension agreement is far away after the hard interest requirement of the FNV. The questions are addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would like to welcome. Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our pension system has recently been hailed as the best in the world. It has most participants, the best capitalization and the most careful policies. It is undoubtedly true, but at the same time many people are deeply concerned. Our pensioners thought they had the security of a value-stable pension, but sometimes they've been waiting for a little plus for years. In fact, we cannot even promise them that they will not be cut, while their monthly fixed charges will continue to rise. Young people are worried too. They don't believe there's gonna be enough money in the pot for their retirement. They can't see how much is built up for them. In between there is still a group of people of about 50 years old. If they decide to continue as a self-employed person, they will find out how appallingly few have been built up in the last 25 years. In short, our pension system needs maintenance. The system needs to be fairer and more understandable. We do not want to take unnecessary risks. We have had great influence in the coalition agreement, but with it we have also assumed a great responsibility to the Economic and Social Council. And it stays quiet there for a long time. Only along the band we hear what's going on. From an interview with the negotiator of the trade union FNV I now have to understand that the FNV makes a hard demand for our prudent calculation interest to be released. That seems attractive to index quickly, but it brings great uncertainty into the system, also for people who already enjoy a pension. The FNV deliberately chooses to make a demand that runs counter to what both the Minister and De Nederlandsche Bank have given. NRC concludes that a pension agreement is far away. I have two questions for the Minister. One: does the story in NRC match what he's been discussing with the social partners over the last few days? Two: can the Minister promise that he will hold on to the prudent accounting rate needed to guarantee a good pension for everyone in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to Mr Van der Linde for asking the questions. I very much agree with Mr van der Linde's introduction on the need to work together on modernising the pension system. I, too, see that distrust in the pension system has grown in recent years, while we do have one of the best pension systems in the world. That is why we have also included in the government agreement that we want to shape this modernisation, together with the social partners and also with the crown members, who have been gathered in the Economic and Social Council. It's complex matter. Of course, it has been discussed a long time. Several opinions have been issued on this subject. I also very much agree with Mr Van der Linde that agreement must be reached quickly in order to get out of this together. Then there are the two specific questions put by Mr Van der Linde. The first question is actually about the negotiations that are currently under way. He asked me if I recognize some of the parties. Frankly, I find that a difficult question to answer here, because the negotiations are currently under way. I do not think it is a good idea to reflect the positions of all parties during these negotiations, so to speak. I just can't say much about that right now. What is ultimately relevant to me is the result. I would like to defend that result here in the Chamber, but during the negotiations I cannot clap it out of the school. I hope Mr Van der Linde understands that. Mr Van der Linde's second point concerns the question of a prudent accounting rate. I've talked to your room about that on a regular basis. I have spoken about it a number of times in debates and general discussions since I arrived a year ago. Indeed, the cabinet believes that there should be a prudent rate of calculation, also on the assumption that you must earn money before you can pay it out. I have talked to Mr Van Rooijen about this from time to time; he is already ready for an interruption. I recently sent a letter to the Chamber of myself and to the President of De Nederlandsche Bank explaining why we came to that position. So for the sake of short: yes, prudent seems to me very sensible. Make the money before you can pay it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	I thank the Minister for his first-term answers. I understand very well that he does not want to go into negotiations that are now under way. At the same time, we see that the FNV has come out. I get the impression that the union is actually making such tough demands that it is almost impossible to get out of this in a good way. I can hardly imagine that the FNV, after all these years of talking and negotiating, would want to torpedo a pension agreement. I must not forget that we should let go of the anchor of our system, which is the rate of calculation. Can I, I ask the Minister, stick to my optimism that the parties will eventually come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	That is a creative question from Mr Van der Linde. The only thing I can say about it is that my picture of the talks that have taken place over the past few months is that all the parties involved have the intention to get out of this. All parties see that there is a need for major maintenance in the system. But again, it is complex matter and it is not for nothing that it has been discussed for a very long time. It's a delicate process. I am working very hard, together with the social partners and the crown members, to get it done. I'd like to stick with that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	I'm very inclined to ask what we're going to do if it all doesn't work out, but let's just hold on to that optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	Trade unions, employers, the social partners and a large number of pension experts of name and fame have said that in the case of softer pension claims, the calculation rate can be increased. President Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank said the same in May, when I asked him to do so. Then we can raise the calculus interest rate. The Minister then wrote a letter saying that he felt that even in the case of softer claims, the calculation rate could not be raised. Does the Minister recognise that he himself is now putting a bomb under the negotiations and that, with the Minister's position, there is a danger of major reductions in the coming years, which will become even greater because of the collapse of the stock markets and the fall in interest rates in Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	For history, I think it's okay to stick to the facts. We had a debate in this Chamber about the accounting rate. Mr Van Rooijen said that Mr Klaas Knot, President of De Nederlandsche Bank, had said something different than I had said about the importance of a prudent accounting rate. I checked with the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. He sent me a letter and I sent it to your Chamber, because I had promised it to Mr Van Rooijen. This shows, indeed, that we both believe that there should be a prudent interest rate. Not only because of the nature of the contract, but also because of the fact that if you are in a collective pension provision and the money is in one pot together, you do need an interest rate to distribute the shares to people. This is also stated in Mr Klaas Knot's letter, which I sent to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	I understand very well that the Minister says: we are negotiating and I cannot say anything about it. In the newspaper we have to read that the FNV says that there is no agreement if there is no change in the accounting rate. The minister in the Chamber is now saying he's not gonna change anything about the accounting rate. Well, now we know there's not gonna be a pension agreement, right? I wonder where the minister gets his optimism from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	I understand Mr Smeulders' attempt to sow divisions. I won't be tempted, if you don't mind. I've been talking for a while. Within the Economic and Social Council, employers, employees and crown members are talking to each other. It's a delicate process and I still have the picture that parties have the intention of getting out of here. I'll hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	That is what my party very much hopes for, because a new pension system is absolutely necessary. I have one question. If this new agreement is to come, I hope it will be balanced for all generations: young people, workers and pensioners, from now on and in the future. Can the Minister assure me that it was crucial for the cabinet, is and remains that no accounts are passed on to young people or to workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	I can be very brief about that: the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
