ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on the reflection paper on the deepening of EMU. We had arrived at the answer of the Minister of Finance in the first term. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the members of your house for the questions and comments. We talk more often about this issue or these issues, but often less fundamental and less important than we are today. Perhaps that is precisely why I should also make a few more fundamental introductory remarks, Mr President. The EU and the euro have been and still are both a political and a financial-economic project. Mr Sneller, Mr Bruins and Mr Nijboer have already referred to this. Today, of course, we are restricting ourselves to financial and economic matters, but I think it is good to say that Europe's merits, especially for our country, have been wider than just the wallet, for example with regard to stability. I also said earlier that the cabinet is for Europe, for the EU and for the euro. The Council of State, the University of Tilburg and many others have also recently made it clear how much the Netherlands has won and benefits from being a member of the EU and the euro. And, as was mentioned in the debate by several speakers, there is broad support, including for the euro, among the Dutch population. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, there are concerns and sometimes very fundamental concerns about specific dossiers. Why is the cabinet stuck in some of those files? Of course that is because we do not want the Dutch taxpayer to pay the bill. But there is also a second fundamental reason, and that is that we have regularly seen in Europe that the strength and potential of good ideas in themselves have eventually been eroded because we have begun to do so under shaky conditions. So that's exactly what we shouldn't want. So it is a question, sometimes, of money, but it is also a question of ensuring that every next step we say yes to, we do so because we are convinced that it is true in substance and that we are doing it against the right conditions. So it's a story of and-and. One for the EU and Europe, and critical where it is needed from the Dutch perspective. In this connection, therefore, I have spoken to you in the Chamber and in Europe about the three c's, commitment, groups and conditions, and not coincidentally in that order. Mr Bruins has just said it much more beautifully than I have and also in Dutch. He was talking about forced bipolarity. With his permission, I will gladly make those words mine, because that is exactly what we should not want to do. Mr. Chairman. The euro area has, of course, had a difficult time. The crisis has also led to concerns about the EU and the euro. The good news is that one of the speakers already referred to the saying 'never washed a good crisis': we have also taken many measures to prevent repetition. The banking sector is and will be fundamentally reformed with the establishment of the Banking Union. Budgetary rules have been tightened up. I'm gonna say a little more about that in a minute. With the ESM there has been a safety net for countries that are in trouble. I also want to emphasise that ESM is working well. We can also see that the budget deficit in the euro area has fallen significantly, that unemployment is still high, but is steadily falling, in all countries, and that the support programmes in Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal and Spain have been completed and that these countries also show good growth rates. I should also like to remind you that these figures contrast favourably with those of many countries outside the euro area. I think that was also a question from Mrs Leijten and perhaps Mr Van Dijck. If you look at that GDP, the Netherlands, but also the euro area as a whole, is well opposed to Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom, the United States and, for example, Norway and Switzerland, when it comes to real GDP growth. Mr. Chairman. I come to another question from Mrs Leijten, which dealt with the options of parallel national currencies, whether I would like to explore them. The answer is no. The cabinet has fully committed itself to the euro and does not see how exploring something that would be most probably unwise, but in all cases extremely costly, could help with something that we should still work on, but which is essentially a good idea. Mrs Leijten also asked if the government is willing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	However, I would suggest that you complete your general introduction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	I must confess that I had hidden five or six questions behind the general introduction. Yeah, I was just getting started on the second one. I'll leave it to you, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	Then Mrs Leijten listened very carefully. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr President, you know me, I always listen well, especially when I get an answer. The Minister says: I do not want to explore it, because it is unwise and incredibly expensive. How does he know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	All scenarios "the Brexit" is the example of "the European currency union" or "the EU's exit" are extremely costly. But, of course, it starts with the fundamental question: do you have something that you are generally satisfied with, but where you still have to step in, of course, I am talking about the euro or not? The cabinet has committed itself to the euro and sees no added value in the option to investigate parallel coins. I do not see how that could help the Netherlands or any of the other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	Okay. Then there are differences: we do not want it, because we want to continue with the euro. I compared it to a trap we swim in. A trap that has certainly been set up by the financial markets. I'm sure the Minister's gonna come up with that. But then he can't say it's precious. In fact, I believe that the scenario'stays' and ends up in a crisis and has to save a country or banks is obviously also costly. If you look at the southern Member States and their economies and see the negative impact the euro has on them, the currency is also very expensive. You can say that an alternative is expensive, but you should actually say: this costs the euro and stay and this costs an alternative. If you don't explore that, fine, but then you shouldn't put the other away as too precious. After all, you didn't investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	I would like to maintain both points. Mrs Leijten and I agree on the first and the second. Or at least we agree on the conclusion from logic on that first point, and not on that second point. I would like to stress that I am going to speak a little bit more about this in a moment, that an exit, even for a peripheral country, as well as for the Netherlands, will be extremely expensive. Then Mrs Leijten asked a number of Members of your Chamber, but also me, if the cabinet is prepared to give the people the right to force a referendum when EMU is deepened. I know Mrs Leijten as someone who has read the coalition agreement to the bone. She knows that there is an extensive paragraph on Europe and EMU, but also on the referendum that this cabinet does not want to go through. Moreover, may I add that it should not fail itself when it comes to its own capacity for democratic control? This is a subject on which we exchange views at least once a month. This applies not only to Mrs Leijten, but also to the whole Chamber. Those are never times when I have the impression that the Chamber needs to be too gentle with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	Second interruption, Mrs Leijten. We've agreed on three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr President, may I still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u13	I would like to add a third point with regard to the referendum. The assumption of Mrs Leijten, who is also behind the idea of a referendum, is that there would be an amendment of the Treaty, that is, fundamental and legal. But I don't see that treaty change coming up yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u14	The changes in the euro area in recent years required a treaty change. In all the technical briefings and reconnaissances that we have had and which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has received in preparation for this debate, including the technical briefing of the Ministry, everyone agreed that the plans that are now before us require a treaty change. Anyway, my question was about the referendum. Of course I know the coalition agreement. Of course, I can also see that the consultative referendum is going to die. Nevertheless, as good as my control and that of the entire Chamber is; we do not control the German Government and we do not control the French Government. And in the end, it's a negotiation between different countries. Surely it would be very good if the Dutch Government were to say: this is the best negotiation result; this is what we are presenting to the people? After all, we cannot control or correct this through any democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u15	I have said something about the quality of the control I personally experience here, I have said something about the government's views on the referendum and I have said something about the legal context. I think that can be summarized as "no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u16	That is a very good answer or at least a short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u17	It's going in the right direction. I'll try to keep it short, too. But why does the Minister underestimate his end result so much? If he thinks he can get the good out of Europe with us as controllers, then he can also proudly submit it to the people. Then she'll embrace it massively, won't she? Then you don't have to be afraid of a referendum and not afraid of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mrs Leijten and I understand each other as follows. We call on each other not to underestimate ourselves. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Snels' question as to whether the euro should not lead to more confidence and security, based on solidarity. At that level of abstraction, I fully agree with that, but I suspect he wants a more precise explanation, so let me try to cut it short. I very much agree with Mr Snels that, like any currency, the euro must offer confidence and security. In my view, Mr Nijboer made a similar two-way between the euro and Europe. I also very much agree that there must be solidarity, but solidarity goes hand in hand with reciprocity, with reciprocity. It has to be there again and-and. The same applies to agreements we make with regard to the ESM. That really starts with countries getting their houses in order. Mrs Leijten and Mr Snels asked about the power of the financial markets and their reduction. In addition, I think the saying "never washed a good crisis" was right around the corner. Look, it is important to say that we have done a great deal in this area within the Banking Union when it comes to supervision, resolution and the movements leading to EDIS, to that deposit guarantee scheme. At the same time, we want to continue to reduce risk. There is one point where perhaps not Mr Snels and I, but Mrs Leijten and I fundamentally differ: the great importance of the internal market. We wouldn't want to give them up. Mr. Chairman. I come to the next block in my speech following these general comments and a number of general questions. Many members have asked the question: what does the cabinet want and what does the cabinet actually do? How do we, in the words of some, ensure that we move together and not stand alone? These are two very important issues, which I would like to comment on at the heart of the matter and which I would also like to take with me a number of questions. First of all, what we do want. In addition, it is crucial that we tell the whole story again. Let us not make a caricature of the situation and pretend that we are above all against a lot of things. We are in favour of the banking union, we have been in favour of supervision, we are in favour of the resolution and we are in favour of EDIS. But at EDIS we do say that we must do so under the right conditions. It is not for nothing that I have also referred to this as fire insurance in the past. We are in favour of maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact and, therefore, of all the adjustments that will bring that goal closer. I have understood some people's appeal in such a way that I may have to think about it again myself and take the lead even more. Of course, I'd like to pick up that glove. We are in favour of modernising the EU budget. This is a crucial area, but it is also important to mention, because we want to do more in the areas of migration, customs protection and innovation. We are in favour of strengthening the ESM, possibly transforming towards an EMF, with an SDRM. I will say something about that later... with monitoring and with conditionality. If the Chamber calls for more articulation of these parts, I will be happy to continue with that, but I think we should watch out for the suggestion we make about ourselves in our own house as if we did not want things in particular. There's a lot we'd love to do and we'd also have to do. In doing so, I have answered a number of questions from several Members. I now come to the great importance of building coalitions. Mr Nijboer, Mrs Hennis, Mr Snels and Mr Omtzigt have also outlined this. In building these coalitions, I think it is important not to make a sort of caricature of what the situation would be like in advance. Of course, it's important not to stand alone. That's not my perception either. My observation is that the subjects that concern us as the Netherlands are subjects on which a lot of other countries, sometimes small, sometimes large and often in varying composition, have similar impressions. I think the call many have made is: make sure you also cooperate in the construction of those coalitions. Mr Nijboer put it, perhaps I might put it that way, which is polarizing, but I do agree with him that language is very important in Europe. That was also why I am trying to tell the en-en-story in Europe and that was why I am in close contact with so many colleagues. We've been asked who and where before. I was in Luxembourg this week. This week I spoke with my colleagues from four other North-West European countries. I have spoken intensively with the now interim Finance Minister from Germany. For example, I regularly look up a large number of others, precisely to articulate the why behind the Dutch position and also to see where we can move together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think Mr. Tony van Dijck was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u20	I don't know what happened to this minister, but he's talking with so much flour in his mouth right now, I can almost feel it pouring in here. Does it have to do with yesterday's vote in Germany that he is now taking a completely different tone? Last week it was: boys, they'll figure it out in Europe, they'll have to get their own house in order first and then we'll see what we agree with. Now it is suddenly: we are for the Banking Union, for the EMF, for the SGP, for an EU budget, for modernisation. In other words, you've suddenly become half a SPD. What happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u21	Everyone, including Mr Van Dijck, is, of course, entitled to his own perspective on reality. I said it was an en-en-story and I started sketching what we're all for. In the meantime, I have also started the list of issues on which we are extremely critical. A number of questions will be asked about the Banking Union and EDIS. Then I will be as explicit and also in Europe I am just as explicit, presumably reassuring, as I have been in the Chamber before. The same applies to the EMF and the same applies to fiscal capacity. This has been less so today, but it is true of a large number of these issues. It's important for all of us to tell the whole story and name it and-and name it. Because several members of this house have also wanted to make that basic sketch, I have chosen to appoint it and-and appoint it. That, I think, is right to the position of the Dutch Government. It is fundamentally committed to the EU, but it is extremely critical of a number of issues. I think that is exactly the right balance, perhaps not the balance of everyone in this house, but the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u22	I'm almost laughing at this. Where are we in Europe now? We are talking about the future of the euro. Take Italy, I'll always take that as an example. That country has a government debt of 130%, over 2,000 billion. Soon, the ECB's buy-back programme will be phased out, the interest rate for Italy will fall through the ceiling and Italy will be the first to knock on the door of such an EMF. What does this minister say? Yeah, guys, 130% government debt, then you ask for trouble, no bail-out, and figure it out? Or is he gonna pull the 500 billion-dollar wallet and suddenly buy Italian government paper on the primary market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u23	This is a very hypothetical question. If that problem arises unexpectedly, I would like to discuss it with Mr Van Dijck. It does not seem to me to serve any purpose to speculate on this now, because there are so many conditions, conditions and what-ifs that this is not the beginning of any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u24	Your second interruption, Mr. Van Dijck. Okay, I'm not. Then Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u25	Apparently it wasn't that important, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u26	Don't provoke!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u27	No, you're right. However, I would like to mention the difference in the German approach and the role of European politics in Germany and in the Netherlands. Here is the point 4.4 of the coalition agreement and we are talking about a few bullets. It's all: we don't want this and we don't want that, we don't want debt, we want budgetary rules, we want stricter, we don't want fiscal capacity and a few more things. Actually, there's nothing about what we do want. But in Germany we want to go this way with Europe, we take this role, we go to the table with Macron. Of course, you can always say five things that already happen halfway that you're in favour of. That's possible; that's rhetorically convenient. But what position does the Netherlands take in this European debate now that it is really going to happen? Maintaining budgetary rules and a few other things that we are for, such as independent estimates, for which everyone is for, are not the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u28	We are seeing the debate over the last few hours in optima forma, because Mr Van Dijck is pushing me in one direction and Mr Nijboer says that I am wrong in the other. That is about the position I would like to find myself in. When I listen to Mr Nijboer, it almost sounds as if he is sorry that he did not participate in the coalition agreement, but if I am being very honest, I also see a clear thread from the previous cabinet to the present cabinet. There are a lot of things that the Netherlands has been consistent in. I should like to say a few words about the German coalition agreement, which is less precise in many parts. But my pattern recognition is that this is often not for nothing; it offers flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u29	Perhaps the Minister will give the most clear answer in his first sentence. He says that he is between the PVV and the Labour Party when it comes to Europe and that this might be the right place. That's really the wrong place. That is really not a progressive sound for Europe, not the Europe of the future and not the tradition of Christian democracy that it has always had. It is the position of the CDA in recent years: against Ukraine, against Greek aid. I'm sure it'll go with you now. But that is not the place for the Dutch Finance Minister to take in these discussions. He shouldn't be between the PVV and the PvdA, he shouldn't be far away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Nijboer pretends that it will always be exactly between those parties, but it is much more complicated. I think Mr Nijboer knows that very well, because he knows exactly what is in the coalition agreement. He also knows exactly that the coalition agreement is based on the wishes and expectations of four different parties. This means that we are very pro-European on some issues, to use that word once again, and that we are critical on a lot of issues, especially those that are not for nothing in the coalition agreement. We are, firstly, critical of the desirability and, secondly, of conditionality. As far as I'm concerned, that's really sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u31	I myself made the comparison between the German and Dutch coalition agreements in the first term and in an interruption debate with one of my colleagues. The Minister keeps saying that he travels across Europe to talk to all kinds of colleagues. I believe that this is particularly true of the smaller countries. The other day I heard that Finland is moving towards Germany as well. When I am in Brussels, where I have been a few times recently, I hear complaints from people who are following the debate, such as: where is the Netherlands, is the Netherlands still involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u32	Everyone hears some other things over there, maybe that's the way to say it. With regard to my contacts with the German Finance Minister, who will not soon be a finance minister, I can be very clear. Before I was in Europe for the first time, I had spoken to him three times. I have also spoken to him extensively again one-on-one during the last euro group. What makes it clear to me, for example, is that Germany was and will remain a very clear ally of the Netherlands in many of these areas, but certainly in terms of stability and growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u33	One of the major differences between the German and the Dutch coalition agreements is that the German coalition agreement does indeed leave things open and does not yet entirely state that it leaves room for discussion with other countries, especially the large countries. But the Netherlands says: this is our position and we are not getting rid of it. That seems pretty tricky to me. That's one. Secondly, may I suggest to the Minister that he talk to the new finance minister in Germany as soon as possible? That'll be two or three in a week. Then don't let him just take the position of: we don't want this. But let him ask: where can we be constructive, where can we be creative, where can we push the European project?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u34	Now I've been working so hard, just for Mr Snels, to name what we all want. We must also take that into account. Perhaps we should then ask some others: but why do you not want all this? We'll have to have that conversation. Mr Snels suggested that the new German Finance Minister should also sit down quickly. Of course. It is clear that this is in our interest. I also wanted to make it very explicit that being right and being right are two very different things and that diplomacy is really crucial for many members of the cabinet. This also applies to many of these files for me personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u36	This brings me to the Banking Union. I have already said that this banking union is, in essence, a really good idea. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands has been in favour of the supervisory section and for the resolution section and has also, in essence, said 'yes' to EDIS. But, and that's where the problem is, it's about conditionality. Let me repeat what I also said to colleagues in the euro group: step one is risk reduction, and only then is step two, risk mutualisation. But for step one and step two, there has to be step zero. I have literally said the same thing, albeit in English, to my fellow Members. Step zero is: quantitatively determine what risk reduction means. I would add, moreover, that, even before the appeal of the Chamber, we were already thinking about what that might look like, particularly inspired by those who say: can we also remain part of the solution? Mr. Chairman. A number of questions related to this particular point. I very much agree with what Mr Bruins said about the banking union. I come to another question from the PvdA and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u37	The Minister speaks of "step zero." I think we discussed that step last week in the Ecofin Council. What exactly does this risk reduction mean? The Minister expressed his surprise: when he took office, he saw that the risk reduction had not been quantified. That is what Ecofin is doing now, we hope. Then we are talking about things like the maximum percentage of NPLs, the ceiling for government bonds and their weighting. Does the minister have an image at the timeline? This will be crucial, also in view of the proposals that will be discussed in the coming months and in view of the timetable set out by the Commission earlier this week during a closed discussion in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u38	Maybe I should dress up my answer a little more, because there is a little bit more to say about it. The Commission has already come up with a first attempt, but it has not been borne in mind in our view. In the meantime, I have called for two meetings of the Eurogroup and one Ecofin meeting to do so. I think it is important not only for Ecofin to do it, but also for the Eurogroup to do it, because it is primarily important to do so. Certainly at the last Eurogroup meeting, a number of countries, such as the German Chamber of Commerce, supported the proposal to agree quantitatively on what exactly involves risk reduction and perhaps not. Again: first risk reduction, under the conditions that we agreed with each other, and then risk mutualisation. That's how it's supposed to be with a normal insurance pool. And that's EDIS: an insurance pool. Why does it make sense for the Netherlands to participate? This was also a question of the SGP and, in my view, the Christian Union. It makes sense because, provided you step on the right conditions, you simply reduce the risks to yourself. It's safer to take out fire insurance with the whole country than with the whole village.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm listening breathless, but maybe not quite right. Does the minister have an image at the timeline now? Or should we wait and see?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u40	I forgot that part of my answer, because I was so excited to answer the next question, from SGP and Christian Union. The President of the Eurogroup has not yet given an answer. I therefore propose that this be reflected in the reports I give to the Chamber when it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Banking Union, I had arrived at a question from CDA and PvdA about a good weighting of risks from government bonds. Mr Nijboer asked for that. I very much agree with that. The Basel Committee has also recently described a number of options, but has not made any concrete choices. So we in Europe and in the Netherlands will also have to look further at how to achieve a good weighting of government bonds in the near future. That seems to me to be one of the subjects that might be included on that list. Finally, Mr Nijboer asked about the leverage ratio, a subject on which he and I often discuss. It is clear what the Netherlands has set its sights on, so on what leverage ratio requirement and on the storage that will still take place for systemically relevant banks. I'm going to write a letter to the Chamber about that next week with more details. Perhaps that should be the reason for the debate to be resumed. With regard to the banking union, Mr Bruins and Mrs Hennis made the point that the deficit should be budget neutral. That was about the backstop. We need to be precise in that too. The Netherlands committed itself to the backstop in 2013. In 2016, the previous cabinet embraced the roadmap and said that this means that it wanted to have that backstop by 2023. The text also says: where possible earlier. At the same time, there we are again, there is still a lot to be technically agreed on the conditions under which that backstop really comes. For most people will not have imagined that this backstop would only consist of €1, to name but a theoretical example. So there is still a lot of work to be done, but the backstop as such, in good Dutch, is not under discussion. The conditions under which and the timing both do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u43	When you do not question the backstop and agree in Europe that it will come at some point, you do not set any conditions. But I thought we agreed we'd go to risk reduction first. Surely we would not have a backstop when the banking systems of a number of countries, including Italy, would not be so healthy that the backstop would be used immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u44	I was trying to outline the dilemma. We agreed on this. This is also the case in the road map; of course Mr Omtzigt also knows him. It states that the countries commit themselves to having the backstop in 2023. That appointment was already made in 2013. At that time, of course, ten years seemed a very long period. I don't think we're gonna be here for a while about the conditions under which the backstop's gonna be there. I also think that Mr Omtzigt is calling for attention to be given to this point. He and I are very much in agreement on that. I also very much agree with Mrs Hennis and Mr Bruins on this point. That's the point. It is, of course, a question of having this backstop when the conditions we are proposing are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's the order of things that matters to me. We are now finding that a number of people in Europe are going to talk about a kind of parallel trajectory, with on the one hand a series of promises to reduce the risks, and on the other hand: we are going to introduce the backstop. Can I hear from the Minister that we are not going to introduce the backstop until we are both satisfied here, so the Minister and the Chamber, because the risks have been reduced, so that we know that the banks will not fall in one go the day after the backstop? I say that because most Italian banks are currently less valuable on the stock exchange than the book value of their assets. Well, if you're worth so little, you know that investors really don't believe in you. So this is not a theoretical possibility; this is going to happen. So are we going to maintain order, so we first have a measurement moment at which the risk has to be reduced before we talk about the implementation of a backstop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u46	I think it's two things. I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt on the order, but I would point out that the agreement made in the road map and already in 2013, is an agreement with which the Netherlands committed itself to the backstop. That has nothing to do with the current cabinet. It's not made up by me either. In the roadmap, 2023 and the backstop are mentioned. Technically, then, we need to determine where the shoe is going to be exactly what it will look like. It is obvious that we will be hard on this. Mr Omtzigt's second point is also very important. That is the question of what elements should precede it. Of course, I know his mind about the stress test. To be honest, I would like to point out that the stress test, which has been carried out many times recently, has a number of shortcomings. You should ask yourself whether you shouldn't be working with EQRs, for example. They are very expensive, but they also give specific examples. They're very detailed pictures of how things are going at such a bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u47	I agree with Mr Omtzigt's question. The Minister's answer doesn't satisfy me. It is true that in 2013 and 2016 the previous cabinet made a political commitment to something that should be done in 2023, but then we will not stop on the road to it, will we? If we find that there are still major problems, if the stress test has just been mentioned, then it is quite logical to take an intermediate step and see if we can meet the agreement that exists at all, as long as it is unclear what further details should be given in advance? It's what the Minister says. You have a commitment, but you don't really know what it is. You're gonna have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u48	I believe that precision and reliability are important in this respect, including reliability at the point where the Netherlands has promised. I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Rooijen that there is still a great deal of equipment to be done for us in order to have a backstop. This means that we will push very hard here on the right conditions and the right checks and tests at the front. But it is very complicated to say: you know what, ladies and gentlemen, we have committed ourselves to this and we do not actually do that. I think it would be much wiser to say that if we want to set up something that really helps, it has to be in accordance with the conditions, as we see it before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u49	Do I listen to the Minister in such a way that he says: if, then...? That means he's building in some kind of condition to what he calls "de jure" and "commitment." I would also like to point out that I also believe that the agreement was that the banks would make a greater contribution. I don't see much of that either. Can the Minister take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u50	I couldn't agree more. In fact, the contribution would come from the banks. Here too, it is really about order. But I don't see any added value in it if we wriggle under a commitment we've entered into. In my view, it is wise to agree with the Chamber on this point to see what conditions it will eventually be subject to. It's easy there too, because we do have that possibility. I prefer to get right in a material sense, rather than create obstacles in a formal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr President, I had arrived at block...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u53	Order and conditionality are key words that sound good and on which I wholeheartedly agree with the Minister. However, I would like to know what is happening... I may not have listened very carefully, but this also applies to the fact that national credit lines are still running. Suppose we assume in the Netherlands that 2023 is still far away and national credit lines are still running. But if the common backstop, if the conditions are met and so on, comes sooner, does this mean that the national credit lines will be stopped immediately, so that we do not end up in a situation of "and"? Is it gonna be "or-or"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u54	These are conditionality and hypotheses that are relatively complicated to oversee. That depends very much on the case. I have already stressed the point that we must keep to what we have agreed. It is not a commitment that this cabinet has entered into, but it is a commitment that this cabinet has said when it comes to establishing that it is taking over this route. The crux and the key are in the conditionality. It was not for nothing said by the previous cabinet that it still had to determine what it was going to look like. Let me just pay tribute to the appointment that was made at the time. That starts with a technical reconnaissance. Only then will there be a political weighting. So we're back to the point I agreed with the Chamber earlier. At the time when the cabinet is considering taking steps on these fundamental issues, the Chamber will of course be informed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u55	I do not want to make it any more complicated than necessary, because I really understood him with regard to the right order, conditionality and the fact that we still have a long way to go. Nevertheless, I note that we have always opted for 2023 for a possible common backstop and that from the European Commission in particular, but also from a number of Member States, it is being sent to do so much earlier. The only thing I keep breaking my head about myself is this. The Minister does not necessarily have to answer that now. The entire banking fund is now set up with some sort of country compartments. That is what the national credit lines are linked to. So we already have a common backstop. In other words, if we now go to a common backstop that is regulated at European level, does this mean that the national credit lines will be stopped immediately? That is a like-dan situation, but this is about the timetable that is being sent on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u56	I would like to say a few more words about the timetable. I am, presumably like Mrs Hennis, not so impressed by the idea that this backstop will have to or can get there much faster. I can honestly imagine that we'll make it to 2023. If all the conditions are really met, there is no objection to starting earlier. But you could also imagine a situation in which a number of countries say that the Netherlands is not only saying that this technical exploration has not been enough, which makes 2023 2024 or later. Of course, this happens more often in national and international politics. It could be. I want to do what is materially sensible and I do not want to break an agreement that the previous cabinet and this cabinet have committed themselves to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u57	It's all a matter of striking clear picket poles. Where do you want to come out and when do you say yes? That just stays very vague. Debt reduction and risk reduction in banks: it all makes sense. The European Commission also says that it is going to work on this, but in the meantime we are going to put in that backstop, because we will have it by then. That's the way it is in Europe. The same applies to debt reduction. I read in the coalition agreement that the no-bail-out must be restored. If it is addressed, there must be debt reduction. The Commission says: of course, debt reduction is important, but let us probably prepare the 500 billion in case a country gets into trouble. I would like to know from the Minister, I can imagine that this cannot be publicly found where he wants to come out and how much debt reduction needs to be achieved before he agrees to a backstop. How much risk reduction should be made at the banks? Because until now, it's vague wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u58	I think I am more optimistic about one thing than Mr Van Dijck, namely the ability of the Netherlands and other countries to send in. He and I both see the movement that the Commission is making, but this is typically a subject on which the Member States have the last word. So I have a different perspective on that. I agree with him and I have just been very clear about this about the need to establish quantitatively what the measuring bar is and then stick to it. As far as I am concerned, this does not necessarily have to be out of the open. I think it would be a good idea, as soon as there is a view of that measuring bar and its appreciation by the Netherlands, to include the Chamber in it by means of a technical briefing or a letter of inquiry. We have to look at the exact means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u59	However, the government agreement talks about debt reduction in countries applying to the ESM or the EMF. Then there must be debt reduction first. My question is how much Italy's debt must be before it can knock on the EMF for 500 billion for liquidity support, because that's how it is. Can that debt be 130%, 110% or 120% of GDP? Or should it be 60%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr Van Dijck is an extremely gifted debater. We were talking about the banking union and its conditionality, but now he comes back with his previous question, which contained a number of dances with regard to the ESM. In his previous interruption, I said: I am sorry, but that is too complicated to just answer. As much as I appreciate the way in which this question comes back, it is clear from the banking union that there must first be debt reduction and then debt mutualisation. And again, I really say: then that is also in the Dutch interest. But that's a different discussion than the one about the ESM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u61	I am pleased to hear that the Minister is prepared to argue in Brussels for a quantitative measurement of risk reduction when the targets are met. In the meantime, of course, we in the Netherlands can already determine for ourselves the objective at which we believe that risk reduction is or is not sufficient. Is the Minister prepared to work with Parliament on such a quantitative measuring bar?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u62	In fact, of course, we have already started to think about it ourselves, because it helps to assess a proposal from Brussels. In order to be as transparent as possible: we are working at the Ministry to see which elements exist and what are then the qualitative and quantitative hurdles that should be taken into account in each of these parts. In the meantime, I am talking to the first few colleagues internationally about whether we could also work together on this issue. Of course, it is a good idea to share that with Parliament when we are a little further. That is exactly what I said to Mr Van Dijck. The Christian Union and SGP specifically asked me if I wanted to lie down in front of the deposit guarantee scheme. I think I answered that question. Which brings me to a block about the EMF. To start with something that we have already exchanged a few times in the AO's, but which I think is good to remember. As a cabinet, we are really positive about the functioning of the ESM. We would like to contribute to the further improvement of the ESM. This may be the label "EMF." There is talk confusion, because in the various countries there are different things hidden under the EMF flag. The first question was from Mrs Hennis and was about an SDRM. It is right that the Commission did not include this in the proposals. We think it would be a very logical and sensible element, because at the moment when a country gets into trouble, private creditors, bond holders of a country are called upon to a lesser or more extent before citizens in other countries are addressed. You could say: it's almost as fair as it gets. I am also talking to colleagues on this subject, but it is even less part of the discussion. So it is really something that we still have some missionary work to do. I would like to point out that the discussions I had with the German colleagues on this point seem to suggest enthusiasm for this direction. Germany, as one of the few countries in the past, has also publicly welcomed an SDRM. So that gives the citizen courage. Mr Omtzigt asked what "monetary" in the word "EMF" means: is the EMF going to create money? I hadn't thought about it as well as he did, but I agree with him that the abbreviation is somewhat uncomfortable, although the IMF can of course only create indirect money and doesn't have the press to reprint it. Perhaps I should put it in such a way that I am recommending Mr Omtzigt's suggestions for an even better name. I am happy to take it with me to my colleagues, even though they may not be at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u63	The name is really very low on the list of priorities. ESM-plus, I'd say, but I'm fine with it. The point is that I want to make it clear whether the Dutch Government agrees that under no circumstances should the EMF be a money-creating institution, if the EMF is to be called, so that, for example, it should not have a credit line with the ECB and, of course, it should not be able to issue money itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u64	Agreed. To be quite specific, for this reason I have shared this schedule with the Chamber for what the ESM is doing now; what the Commission wants it to do and what the Dutch view is about it. Our view is, if I put it very briefly, that the ESM can continue to do what it is already doing and gets a number of additional tasks. In a way, you could say that these disappear with the Commission and go to the ESM, and that is a good idea. I also agree with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. Ms Hennis asked about the voting rules within the ESM. I think I have to interpret her question in such a way that she is concerned if there would be a weakening of our position. This is, of course, of crucial importance in this area. If you would like to point out the crux within the discussion about the EMF and the ESM, that is as far as I am concerned: how much influence do you still have as a country. I very much agree with her that it is about maintaining the rights we now have. It is perhaps a good thing to mention one comment which I should add. Even now 85% of Members can decide in an emergency, so there is no strict unanimity either. I do not see that changing, and I also think that there is a logic behind that. Mr Omtzig asked about the role of the ECB in the future EMF, but I think I have already had that. The EMF would be more independent vis-à-vis the ECB, but above all vis-à-vis the Commission. Then I come to the Stability and Growth Pact. Mr President, there too, with a look at the clock, a few introductory remarks, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u67	So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u68	That's a load off my chest. And you're referring, of course, to the speed with which I do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u69	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u70	You're getting me all riled up. We were at the Stability and Growth Pact and the discussion of whether rules are important. There was some discussion as to whether it would be wise to strictly enforce those rules. The words "debt and fine" were used in the mouth. I think I should start, I say to Mr Snels and others, that it is not so much a Dutch preoccupation with 'rules are rules'. I also think that helps, because if you agree to a rule, you shouldn't want to tolerate it but want to maintain it, or else you shouldn't have that rule. The rule and reality must be as close together as possible, but the deeper thought behind it is of course another. It is true that the credit crisis and the banking crisis were not caused by the deficits. To take the example of Spain, as Mr Snels also pointed out, my Spanish colleague said that their misery would have been many times greater if they had not done what they did before the crisis. My Danish colleague has told me that the fact that Denmark had such a limited debt has helped Denmark greatly to get through the crisis, so the logic of continuing to stress a low debt and to build buffers is obvious to me, and the Netherlands really has to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u71	I will see if the Minister can conclude this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u72	I am talking about the SGP much more, but not in direct response to Mr Snels, who talked about Spain and guilt and fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u73	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u74	That's what I was hoping to have done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u76	We share the starting point. The starting point in monetary union must be that public finances are sustainable in all countries in the long term. I had two objections. One, if you look at the budget rules they've worked on. Of course, that has something to do with what preceded it. No misunderstanding. They've been procyclical. That is one of the reasons why we had this idiotic ECB policy, because fiscal policy was unable to respond to the crisis. So if rules are stupid, aren't smart, aren't economic wise, then you provoke them not to be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u77	But there too we have to be more precise. Because Mr Snels is referring here to the low point of the crisis and the question of whether you should stick to that -3. Can I interpret his remark like that? There may be another discussion about this. The problem is precisely this: I have also exchanged this with the Chamber before, that we know the saying 'never waste a good crisis', but now much more so: let us also use this moment, when the sun appears economically, to bring that debt down. So my objection to how some Member States enforce these rules is not that in a single year they are at the very bottom of the crisis that has broken the 3% rule, it is precisely that they do not keep much of the agreements we have made today. Not so much because the rule is the rule, but because it is a harbinger of misery at the time of the economic headwind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u78	One, I think, is going to be given a period in which we can also think about what are smarter budgetary rules, as is done by economists: looking at spending more in the medium term. But two, I made that comparison the other day, it creates nervousness when countries come close to negative 3. That's usually when it's in recession. Then sanctions can also be imposed. That is hardly ever done, I understood once, with Hungary, and actually we should be smarter in that too. Just when things are going well, then, over the past two years, next year, countries will have to build buffers. And should we no longer consider the control mechanism and perhaps even the possibility of sanctions there? Then you can also build in incentives to stimulate reform. In my view, that works much better than a rule of sanctions when they are not convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u79	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u80	Two responses. On that last point, I agree with Mr Snels. Where it then becomes complicated to come up with a rule that helps enough, sufficiently stimulates the right behavior, is sufficiently precise and is not too complex. That is not so easy, because the previous President of the Eurogroup has of course tried to do so, and I think some sensible things have been added to the palette. But these rules, too, have not been enforced or have been enforced in a limited way. So it's not that easy, but I agree with him very much. Mr Nijboer and Mrs Hennis also asked: should we not also look at improving and perhaps simplifying the rules? I very much agree with Mr Snels. But again, it's complicated to do that. There is a step back, Mr President, and I would also like to make it to Mr Snels. Because Mr Snels himself says, those rules have hardly ever been enforced. I just tried to be precise, too. Look, the problem with maintaining that is not that at the very heart of the crisis once a country has fallen outside of 3%, the problem is that there is not enough structural reform, especially at times when things are going well, and then having a lower debt year by year and thus being more robust for a next crisis. That, I believe, is the essence. And I hear, albeit not via the microphone, Mr Snels mention the word'sanctions'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u81	I wouldn't react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u82	Then I will be right on his next question, so I am happy to take advantage of that opportunity. Sanctions, yes, perhaps, have not always worked flawlessly, if I may put it this way, so perhaps it is still necessary to think about positive incentives, how they might look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u83	For the last few minutes I feel that we are dealing here with a game of words and not with reality, if I may put it that way. We all know that confidence in the Commission's enforcement of the rules is at a low point. Now you can say that maybe you shouldn't be so strict when things are going very badly, but things are much better now, and yet I don't see the beginning of greater confidence and a more effective enforcement policy. I can only see that some large countries are failing to enforce it. Then Brussels will come up with new rules again, but if we do not even maintain existing rules, even at this good time, then I feel that we are working on a word game if we do not simply find together that the Commission was not willing, is not willing and will not be willing, I fear, to impose sanctions at all. Now we're gonna talk about stimuli again. It is in the Netherlands' interest to ensure that other countries comply with the rules, as we do ourselves, and that those rules are enforced by Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u84	In even more diplomatic terms, I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u85	It's good to see that, then we'll already cross a bridge together. But the question is how, if we want to cross that bridge together, we can get the other countries to actually do that. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u86	Of course, I have already mentioned this in my first euro group. In the Eurogroup, I also addressed the Commission to the need to maintain the rules of the Commission itself. So I did not just exchange this with the Chamber; I exchanged it with the Commission, I exchanged it with the other members of the Eurogroup, I exchanged it in the Ecofin and I said it in the press. If Mr Van Rooijen says: but it has not improved dramatically over the past three months, then I agree with him, but that is the bridge to the conversation I just had with some of the Members. I have also been in regular contact with my previous German colleague, because unfortunately it is not enough if the message 'we have to maintain' comes only from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u87	I think that talking about others having to follow the rules is always so crazy if you don't follow the rules yourself. This government pretends that the Stability and Growth Pact is the only one, but there is also the macroeconomic imbalance procedure: The Netherlands has been under attack since the start of the euro because it has a much too large trade surplus, which actually makes a profit on the euro at the expense of the southern countries. When is the Netherlands going to follow the rules and solve this macroeconomic imbalance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mrs Leijten and I discussed this earlier in an AO, if I may put it that way. At that time, I also indicated that it is wrong to say that we are making money over the backs of it. That really is an incorrect qualification. This macroeconomic imbalance has a lot to do with the open economy that the Netherlands is. I have also indicated that the percentage is ending, and I think I recall that I promised Mrs Leijten that I would still map out for the Chamber, and for her, of course, in particular, what is the development in the numbers and what are the driving forces behind those elements. So perhaps we should take that debate back on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u89	We will certainly do so, because this debate is not over today. But I am a little bit concerned with the tone when the Minister says: yes, no, the crisis was indeed not due to the deficits. No, it was because the financial markets could speculate. But when I ask a fundamental question about this, he says: we think differently about the internal market. We do have a very big arc around the power of the financial markets and how they can speculate our real economy with their appreciation of countries and coins! Why do you talk about other countries having to reform, break down their pension systems, make their labour markets more flexible, because that's what you're always talking about, but don't say: wait a minute, speculate with our currency and with the appreciation of countries, that should now be restricted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u90	I am still trying to link up with macroeconomic imbalances. As far as I am concerned, that is really not the same as the debate on the 3% and 60%. It is true that Mrs Leijten is right in saying that it is a macroeconomic imbalance that signals Europe, but it has a lot to do with the foundations of the Dutch economy. There is a lot to do on the qualification that hangs us around the neck. You could say in many ways that this is the result of wise Dutch policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u91	What about the other thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u92	Another question, did you say? Is that a repeat of the question if that question is not answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u93	You know, the euro house of cards has many rules, including the Stability and Growth Pact. If you run macroeconomically apart and have imbalances, then that must also be resolved. That's always a bit downplayed, but it's still a deal. We can say to others "hold on to the deal," but then you have to do it yourself. But I asked another question. By saying 'it's because of others that the euro doesn't work', you're actually walking around in terms of the vulnerability of the euro as a whole and of the financial market, which still appreciates countries' creditworthiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think we'll be back at the beginning. At that time, I indicated to Mrs Leijten that at least we shared and still share some of her concerns, as I believe many in this house had. That is why much has already been improved in the area of banks. I want to mark that anyway. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. There's more to be done. That is precisely why we want to take further steps both internally and externally. This means that, at European level, what we are talking about today, we want to continue with the core elements of the Banking Union. But when it comes to speculation and the internal market, I think that the perspectives of the cabinet and of the SP Group are quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u95	I suggest that you continue to answer the questions that have not yet been answered. I don't know how far you're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u96	I'm almost at "other." I think I have answered almost all the questions put by Mr Nijboer, Mrs Hennis and Mr Snels on the SGP. Mrs Hennis asked whether it would be wise to depoliticise. That in itself is a very good thought. This is exactly what the previous president of the eurogroup proposed with the European Fiscal Board. The mechanism that I regret to say is that the resources of the European Fiscal Board come back from the Commission. The recommendations I have heard from the European Fiscal Board were a little harder than those of the Commission, but not yet at the level I would have liked to have heard them on. I agree with her, but there too we have a certain way to go. I think I have already said it to Mr Snels, but I also agree with Mr Nijboer, who said: should we not look again at what rules can be changed to ensure that we improve behavior? Very once and also very complicated; see also what my predecessor has done with regard to the MTO. There were some very sensible things in that, but the maintenance of it is sad again. See also the discussion we had last week on the Commission's latest proposal on how these rules should then be incorporated into treaties. That was a slightly different interpretation than ours; let me put it this way. It's really a complicated file. I have one more thing to do with the SGP and then I go to "other." It has to do with Mr Bruins' question, which referred to the Slob motion and the exit conditions. I will confess that I had not seen the motion for a break before, so I took note of the text. I understand very well what the motion means. I also think that it is logical in itself that his question went in that direction and I think that the SGP's remark should also mean that an exit and going bankrupt should continue to be possible in itself. But it is something very complicated which becomes very expensive, even when it comes to a peripheral Member State. I can go some way with him when it comes to whether it should remain part of the overall playing field. I think we can agree on that. I think we should not overlook the amount of pain that this will bring, but certainly ourselves. Then it does not have to be about a large European country of the size of Italy. Mr President, then I have arrived at the other block. On top of that is the request made by Omtzigt and others on transparency, which I very much agree with. I have already said in one of the AO's that I took the opportunity to know the new Chairman of the Working Group a little better than I knew the previous one to bring this interest to the fore. I will also take it up with Mr Centeno. I have to say that my predecessor has repeatedly insisted on this, but transparency does not yet have the same momentum as here. Yes, Mr President, some of the Members want me to express myself a little diplomatically, so I like to practice on that. Then Mr Bishop asked for stabilisation in asymmetric shocks. Let me say first of all that Eurobonds are not part of the current discussion. I would almost say that is a good thing too, because we are not for it. The European Union should not become a debt community and we do not want to take steps towards a transfer union or Eurobonds. It is true that stabilisation of asymmetric shocks is part of the discussion, but I have always been explicit about it and made clear what our position is in accordance with the coalition agreement. Mr President, then Mr Nijboer had a variant to that question. He asked about Eurobonds with a senior and junior tranche. We are not in favour of this either. I can see which way he is thinking, but our assessment is that there is also great risk and moral hazard. The latter was confirmed by me when one of my colleagues in the euro group indicated that there was no moral hazard at all in the euro group. In my view, that was sufficient evidence that we should be careful with these types of instruments. I have had Mr Bishop's question. Then Mr Van Dijck asked, let's see, this is not quite right. The Commission proposes that EMF buys government bonds on the primary market. I think that was a question from Mr Van Dijck, but I was equally confused, because the SGP was there as a party. That wasn't entirely correct. The Commission's proposal does not add any new instruments to the EMF, apart from a backstop of the SRF. I think we can agree on that. However, the possibility of preemptive credit lines for buying up government bonds already exists with the ESM. There's no change. I would, however, be wary of suggesting what reality is like today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u97	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u98	You're very strict today. What matters to me is when it is state aid. State aid is if you buy bonds on the primary market. Then you can put the capital market out of play and say, "Listen, I'm offering my government paper at 2%." No one's signing up, 'cause you must be crazy with Italian paper. In other words, you sell it to the ECB for 2% and that is absolutely forbidden. But now it's possible with the EMF. It says that temporary liquidity support means buying bonds on the primary market. The Italian State, which cannot roll its bonds on the capital market because it requires higher interest rates, can therefore refer to the EMF. I think that's contrary to everything the bailout stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u99	Technically, I really should check it out, but I think it's a little different at the ESM right now. That is also what the Netherlands wants to hold on to. If Mr Van Dijck wants to know the technical seam of the stocking, I will have to look it up. In my opinion, the case as he describes it is, if not impossible then at least extremely unlikely with the current set-up, but let me take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u100	No, that's right: with the current set-up. But with the new set-up and in the EMF it is clear that you can buy on the primary market. That is why I say that this is a change and I think it is contrary to everything that Europe stood for, namely no bail-out to countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u101	I have a slightly different impression, but I will double-check it, at least with regard to our own proposals. It is, of course, true that in the EMF, the countries want very different things that we are not in favour of. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Bishop asked about an adjacent area that I am not primarily concerned with, namely further enlargement. As he himself pointed out, the Commission's communication was only published yesterday. There will be a cabinet response to that letter. It is true, in itself, that new Member States take on the obligation to adopt the euro as a currency in the long term, but I think it is really up to the cabinet as a whole to respond to that comment on enlargement. So I wouldn't want to take that on my own here. I hope he understands that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Omtzigt asked for a zero measurement. Last week, I undertook to review annually the progress of measures taken and to share with the Chamber, where the banking union is concerned. On 19 January, I sent a comprehensive letter on the risks posed by the Netherlands in terms of monetary policy. I have dealt with the risks of the programme. My suggestion would be that I repeat that also periodically. With regard to the public finances of the various Member States, I inform the Chamber very regularly anyway, because that is, of course, related to my monthly visit to the Eurogroup and Ecofin, and therefore to the annotated agenda as the Chamber receives from me. Mr. Chairman. Then I am with Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS, who asked another question about the fiscal agenda. I think that is what several speakers were asking for. Let's see where I left it. Mr President, before I make too much of a mess, I will, with your permission, first of all discuss the German coalition agreement. I was asked for my appreciation. I have, of course, also exchanged this with the Chamber earlier. In itself, I think it is good for the stability of Germany and of Europe that there is another German government. I have also exchanged with the Chamber earlier that it is interesting to read what is and what is not in the coalition agreement. Many of the sentences in Germany's coalition agreement, which is and will remain a very natural ally of us in many of these areas, are consciously or deliberately less specific than in the Dutch coalition agreement. This also means that, as far as I am concerned, there is room to do business with Germany, just as we have always done. I don't think it makes any sense for me to comment on all the passages. I would like to point out that, where my portfolio is concerned, only two or three sentences have changed in relation to the previous version. I quoted that in the AA back then. It hasn't changed much. The suggestion made by Mr Snels, among others, to quickly sit down with my new German colleague, of course, I very much share. Mr. Chairman. Then I was at the tax agenda. Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer spoke about a European minimum rate. Perhaps also Mr Van Rooijen, but I got confused there for a moment, because I have less focus on his question. In December, by adopting the Ploumen motion, the Chamber asked the government to commit itself internationally to preventing a race to the bottom in corporate tax rates. The Cabinet, like the Chamber, thinks we shouldn't be in that race. The Secretary of State has said this to the members of the Finance Committee on several occasions. Although we reduce the corporate tax rate, keeping the Dutch location climate attractive and participating in a race to the bottom are really two different things in our opinion. It would also be a good idea to launch a debate at EU level to prevent a race to the bottom, including an EU-Vpb minimum rate. Mr President, I think I am through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u102	Has there been a question left, Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u103	I hear for the first time that there is an opening in the cabinet to talk about a minimum rate for the Vpb. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u104	My impression is that I have especially repeated what the Secretary of State, and hence the Cabinet, said earlier. I do not want to rob Mr Snels too quickly of his happiness, but let me double check what he said earlier. In my view, the cabinet has been explicit in relation to the Ploumen motion, but it has also said where the perspective of the cabinet and, for example, that of the GroenLinks Group is different. Let me double check, but I believe that this text is in line with the previous ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u105	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u106	It's a good thing you're getting back to that. But that means that if France and Germany, which have both included it in the coalition agreement and in Macron's speeches, want to talk about setting a minimum corporate tax rate, the Netherlands does not say "no', but that the Netherlands is talking along.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u107	No. Just when you want to nuancedly outline the perspective of en-and-so, this is always the danger. I said that, and the Secretary of State also said that it would be good to talk about a race to the bottom at EU level, and that it could well be that an EU-Vpb minimum rate would also be mentioned there. That's really different. You know our views on the Vpb. With the fact that it is good to have a discussion and the realization that this subject could then be raised, we are really still a long way from what Mr Snels proposes on this subject. That's why I want to name that clarity so badly and I want to tell it and-and tell it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u108	I am very pleased that the Minister would like to emphasise this. I thought, "Now I have to get to the interrupting microphone." It will not surprise anyone if I say that, as far as the VVD is concerned, the basis and height do not lend themselves to far-reaching harmonisation. Does the Minister agree with me that, as a relatively medium-sized small country, we should really pay attention when this discussion starts, because countries such as France and Germany have a huge home market? They immediately eliminate the issue of policy competition for us. I would really like to call on this Minister to continue to sail very sharply there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u109	Agreed. No misunderstandings about that. The interesting thing is that it has been accepted for a long time by the large European countries that small European countries have been able to distinguish themselves, inter alia, in the field of taxation. There the perspective is changing, but that has been accepted for a very long time, including from Germany and France. I read exactly the same piece the first and second time towards Mr Snels. I have just put a little more emphasis on the fact that the discussion could be stirred up by the others. Maybe it was more his enthusiastic reaction that led to a misunderstanding than what I said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr Van Rooijen. Just to be sure, there is also a second term, unless you do not want to use it. But I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u111	I would like to have an answer to a question that I did ask, and that was not about the minimum corporate tax rate, but I think the Minister found that too. At the end of my speech I discussed in detail the question, in line with the AIV, whether you should look at exit scenarios and whether you should not embed a possible exit route in the structures. I note that the Slob motion has been discussed, but that the Minister has in no way gone into my detailed conclusion. That disappoints me a little, because I didn't ask that for nothing, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u112	It was of course more because of the race against the clock than that I wanted to fail Mr Van Rooijen. The answer I gave to the SGP is, to a large extent, the same. I can imagine the logic of such a scenario in itself. Mr Van Rooijen has drawn the parallel with a marriage. That is a dangerous parallel in all kinds of ways, I dare say. Moreover, an exit from the euro, as I have just said, is extremely damaging, even if it is a peripheral country. Britain is not in the euro. I know that people have been watching what would happen if the United Kingdom were to do so at the beginning of retirement. I think that most of those people have realised that this price is apparently extremely high for Britain, which is not even a member of the euro, but also for the Netherlands. So I understand Mr Van Rooijen's theoretical exercise, but I don't know exactly what it would bring us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u113	We have had the discussion with Greece: you cannot evict Greece and if Greece does not want to get out, they will not get out. Then you can say: if there is that certainty, then there is that certainty. But that has led to very great consequences and tensions. Is it so strange to have a route in the structures that it is possible in itself? That does not mean at all that you should or would like to use it, but that everyone knows what the road map is, should it be discussed unexpectedly. Also at the Brexit we now see the gigantic chaos, partly caused by...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u114	Yeah, we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u115	... the wailing commitment of the cabinet. But no one really knows how to implement Article 51.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mr Van Rooijen and I both had a different role and had no part in that debate. Many of the Members present have been part of that debate, but my observation of that debate has been that it was not the case that Greece would not have been able to get out of it. It was the case that the other euro Member States said that under these and these conditions and these specific conditions, we are prepared to continue and offer a further package of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u118	For example, Mr Nijboer, who is standing next to you, has a much more vivid memory of this than I do, but I think it was about that and the alternative that the euro countries said: we are not doing it anymore. In that case, it would probably have become inevitable that Greece had left the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u119	I will come back to the tax on profits, the race to the bottom in Europe. I'm trying to understand the Minister's position. Is he saying it's really a serious problem that I'd like to do something about, but I can't because of the coalition agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u120	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u121	So what's it like? The minister said it's a problem. Mr. Snels was also excited. Mr Sneller actually thinks so too. We actually heard that in the first term. Then Mrs. Hennis arrived and then she wasn't allowed to do it again. But something has to be done. And the Netherlands also participates in it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr Nijboer will agree with me, with all due respect for his debate skills, that his question was somewhat leading. I think he heard me very well: we don't want a race to the bottom. That is what we should be discussing in Europe. I also say in the direction of Mr Nijboer in particular that we, as the Netherlands, under the previous cabinet and certainly under this cabinet, have taken a different course in relation to the other important subject relating to taxation: evasion and avoidance. I am aware of Mr Nijboer's encouragement to do more and to go faster, if I may put it that way, but I think it is real to stress that the cabinet is really taking steps in this respect, as was the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u123	And we're sticking to today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u124	Yeah, this is part of the deal. This is really a big European debate. We agree on avoidance. That's nice, but it's about those rates, which the Netherlands just participates in. But also the fact that it is a problem and enter into the conversation and propose to go down a few percent as the Netherlands without wanting to agree minimum rates; that is so difficult for me to connect with each other. So I will give you a political explanation. Then I can still get it. The VVD doesn't want it, the CDA doesn't want it, and D66 and Christian Union want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u125	Given Mr Nijboer's great talents, I would not like to rule out the fact that he is deliberately narrowing and then broadening at the moment when it suits him just fine. What I said was about tax rates as a whole. The discussion now focuses on the Vpb. As far as I am concerned, this discussion about preventing a race to the bottom should be about the total. At the same time, and that was my very common point to Mrs Hennis.... it is true that for decades it has been a distinctive feature of Dutch policy, as well as of the policies of other small European countries, to be fiscally attractive to companies as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u126	I would like to join with Mr Van Rooijen's questions on an exit strategy. It has been outlined how this may have played a part in Greece, but it has not been chosen. I agree with the Minister, and I have indicated this in my contribution, that it is not the subject of discussion at the moment. But it has to do with it, given the planned enlargement to Eastern European countries and, in the long term, the Western Balkans, which will eventually join the euro area. Isn't it an act of care and purity to parallel it, however you may think about it, at least to examine what exit strategies are conceivable, so that a full arsenal is available, should that be necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u127	On that almost theoretical level, of course, I agree with Mr Bishop. That is what I have been trying to say to Mr Van Rooijen. At the same time, this is of all the important problems that we in Europe have to solve, a very complicated and, for all kinds of reasons, quite theoretical problem. I wanted to outline that the price of such retirement would also be unparalleledly high. So if I could interpret Mr Bishop's appeal in such a way that I am going to worry about this when I am completely done with these other subjects, then I very much agree with him. If he asks me, a little less ironic, if that can remain part of the discussion, I would like to say: But it is both very complex and not very urgent, so with all due respect for the subject, it is not what should be at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr Bishop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u129	The Minister himself indicated that he was practicing diplomatic expression of certain positions. I have to say, he's making great progress. Because, of course, this cannot be interpreted in this way. This is what I am talking about, and I think Mr Van Rooijen also meant in his plea: let us take steps, no matter what direction it goes. In fact, we have just begun a fundamental discussion on the future of Europe. And there's gonna be more steps. Then this is supposed to be a part of what we should also be paying attention to. So let us keep this on the agenda, let us think about it and move on to it. Is the Minister prepared to contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mr Bishop thinks I am diplomatic, but I wanted to choose to be very clear in his direction about how complicated this dossier was and not to go crazy. So yes, I agree with him, but I wanted to see specifically and directly to watch over too much optimism for what we can expect at this point. But given the reasonable tone of his last question, my answer can of course all be "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I've re-examined the coalition agreement. It does say that the no bailout clause must be restored and that debts should not be financed jointly. It's all there. But eventually there will be an EMF and there will be a 500 billion pot that can be used for countries, even for banks in trouble. One can freely draw on that. We have not yet discussed this either. The EU budget, which is already EUR 160 billion, is being raised to at least EUR 200 billion. The Netherlands can't like that either, but it's happening anyway. Budgetary rules are also becoming less stringent. Even the European Finance Minister will eventually be there, although perhaps under a different name. The European deposit guarantee scheme is going to be established and ultimately there are European taxes and eurobonds. They're gonna be there. Arno Wellens said it at the round table in Maastricht: it is one of two with a currency union. Or you take the full monty and you turn it into a political union. It will then be sustainable for the future, but you will have to accept that there will be European taxes and safety nets and that there will be a permanent transfer of wealth. Either you quit and introduce your own coin. As is well known, the PVV is not about muddering, because the price is only getting higher, higher and higher. Meanwhile, the counter is at 400 billion. The PVV is in favour of its own currency. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the euro as a single currency is unsustainable for nineteen totally different Member States;]] [[noting that many billions have been transferred to euro area countries and banks and that they are still not healthy;]] [[calls on the government to prepare to leave the euro and return to its own currency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr. Chairman. A lot of problems were expected with the euro in different countries and economies, such as non-compliance with rules, whatever rules, transfer of value from one country to another and whether or not to save a bankrupt country. One of the unforeseen shortcomings was the impact of the liberalised financial market on the euro and on countries in the euro. This is mainly about credit ratings. We can blame the Greeks for the way in which Greece has been speculated, but there is certainly also a cause in the financial markets. If there is speculation tomorrow with Italy or another country or perhaps with a new euro country to join, we are all in the rain again. That is why I have tabled this motion, because I think it is far too simplistic to reject it as 'we think differently about the internal market'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State referred to the liberalised financial sector as an unforeseen flaw in the failure of the euro so far;]] [[noting that, under pressure from the financial market and credit rating agencies, substantial support has been given to the euro and to Member States;]] [[considers that, in the general interest, the power of the financial market in the real economy should be reduced;]] [[calls on the Government to make plans to break the power of the financial market in the real economy and to launch the debate on this at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u134	I agree with Mrs Leijten that we are in a chokehold of the financial market, but how else would you like to do it? Who else buys Italy's government bonds? The ECB is now up to 33%, but do Mrs Leijten and the SP want the ECB to buy up all government bonds from all countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u135	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u136	Who's buying them? You need money. You offer them on the market, the financial market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yeah, sure. And the creditworthiness of a country makes it whether you can borrow money or not. And the moment you're in a union where you can't devalue your own currency and so you can't create space, you're in the pliers. That is exactly what I referred to as the euro. That's exactly the same alert we have. That is why I said in the first term that I do not think the euro has a future. I'm about to file another motion on that. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u138	Well, you have 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr President, I would like to answer Mr Van Dijck, if I may. I just think that if you get out now, as your motion argues, it will not work at all, because the power of the financial markets and credit rating agencies will bring the Netherlands into the storm and then you can be speculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u141	You're gonna have to solve that anyway, if you want to have a plan for next to or from the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the people have something to say about the future of monetary union. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transfer of sovereignty, as in the current EMU plans, calls for Treaty changes;]] [[Considering that Treaty changes take place in a democratic vacuum;]] [[believes that the people should be able to express their views on the future of monetary union if they so wish;]] [[calls on the government to make it possible for the population to decide on the future of monetary union if it wishes to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. I called it a trap we swim in. In a trap you can keep swimming, but then you end up stuck and you are caught up by the financial markets. That's why we have to make a path to swim outside the trap. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mrs. Leijten, two minutes really are two minutes. It's really a problem. Then you shouldn't give a whole introduction around it. Just read the motions. That goes for everyone, including you. What are you going to do now, Mr. Nijboer? Anything? No, don't ask! Proceed, Mrs Leijten, with your final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u146	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the euro has not proved to be a stable currency;]] [[Whereas the current EMU plans do not address the looming errors in the currency union;]] [[calls on the Government to formulate alternatives to and/or alongside the euro,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr. Chairman. ESM, EMF, SGP, SRF, ECB, ESI, ESRB, SRSP, SBBS, EDIS, EMU. Our stenographers have become full-time of ours today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u148	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u149	I would therefore like to express my special appreciation for our stenographers today. I realize I just put a dime in the bag. My appreciation for that! But in the end, it's only one thing: a deal is a deal. You can only have a reliable currency if you have a reliable government. If you're gonna make a deal with each other, you're gonna have to stick to it. A lot has been said about that today. I would like to remind you in particular that I am pleased to hear that the Minister is working on a quantitative measuring bar to determine when we all agree that the requirement for risk reduction has been met. I would very much like to see, in the long term, what such a measuring bar might look like. I ask the Minister: is there a deadline? A second question that is still a little bit open is the following. There's been talk about the Franco-German axis. GroenLinks said: if we move on our own, we're a bit of a calimero. I don't think so. I have specifically referred to the coalition of medium-sized countries. I mentioned Finland and the Baltic States. I would like to ask whether the Minister can still say how he appreciates the strength with which we in the Netherlands could act in such a coalition and thereby give a little more support to the German side of the German-French axis. Germany and France do not agree at all. It's just two very big countries that have a lot of power together. Is there anything we can do about this? Furthermore, my name is under a number of motions that Mr Omtzigt and Mr Hennis will table later, in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u150	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the German coalition agreement and German-French cooperation, the process of the euro will be accelerated in the near future. As far as D66 is concerned, the aim is to lay a firmer foundation among the successes of the euro and to make the euro more shock-proof, because it is in our own best interests. In addition, I'll give the Minister a few more things. First of all, support. I think it is not productive and not in our interest to call for the North-South contradiction all the time. We could also mention the positive developments here more often, to bring a bit more nuance into the picture. During this debate, Spain was allowed to settle its debts with the ESM prematurely. In the Netherlands, too, perhaps we should look more often for the public debate, as I say in the direction of the Minister, so that the people at the end of this journey do not suddenly think: what happened? I think that we could also take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mrs Leijten, I see that you want to interrupt, but you cannot have the discussion again. This is really the second term, so very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u153	D66 calls for a public debate, but what would D66 think if we organised a referendum on this if the people with 300,000 signatures indicated that they wanted it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u154	It's nice to have Mrs Leijten try again. D66 is in favour of a remedially binding referendum without international treaties being subject to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u155	That discussion has been held. I'm sorry. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u156	But not with Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u157	No, the debate on the referendum was held and it is also on the agenda next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u158	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u159	No, Mrs. Leijten, not again. I suggest you move on, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u160	May I rephrase it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u162	If people of D66 are not allowed to decide but to talk to them, how does D66 see the influence of people before them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u163	I think it is important that parties are clear about where they want to see the euro going in Europe, and that voters can at least make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u165	The second thing I want to give the Minister is that he shouldn't stand by the sidelines. He is looking for alliances with Germany, Luxembourg, Baltic States and Vikings, and I think that is good, but it also applies and-and-and-so. By this I mean that he must also find an interlocutor on the other side of the Berlin-Paris axis. For example, when it comes to maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact, on the one hand, it is good to be strict with Germany about "a deal is a deal," but on the other hand, it is important to look at creative solutions between central enforcement and decentralised enforcement with Southern Member States. What role can the market play in this and what role can public bodies play in it? In the first term, I believe that the Minister and I have also made it clear what we are both for. Against this background, I also share the balancing framework that Mrs Hennis has shared. Next week we will have the next debate on the future of the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr. Chairman. A Europe that offers protection and prosperity is also what economic and monetary union is all about. This also requires a healthy banking sector. The Minister has promised to come back to that in detail. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it is clear that there must be higher buffers. I hope that is what the letter says and that it is also agreed at European level. A number of other things are needed for this. Mr. Chairman. This debate, in fact, makes it very clear what is going on in Europe at large. If D66 takes a stand here, the Christian Union will soon come to ask: does that really fit into the coalition agreement? And if Minister Hoekstra gives a somewhat accommodating answer to GroenLinks about tax avoidance, the VVD is directly at the interrupt microphone: but we didn't mean it that way, did we? In this way, the Netherlands does not take the lead needed in the European debate. However, we will soon see the results of France and Germany, which the Netherlands will join and which the various coalition parties will eventually agree to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ECB has a single vote ratio per national central bank director;]] [[whereas there is now a rotation scheme whereby the Netherlands, but also Germany, for example, once every few months, has no voting rights;]] [[whereas this may undermine the support for the ECB's policies;]] [[calls on the cabinet to address the ECB's voting relationship in the discussion on the future of EMU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u168	I have been drawing attention to this for some time now, including the previous Minister. It's something that can really be a big thing in big monetary decisions. For more than a year now, bank presidents of countries no longer have the right to vote. If a large monetary decision is to be taken and Germany has not voted in favour, as is the case with the Netherlands, then we will have huge debates on it. That's not desirable. Now that the whole discussion on EMU is on the table, I would ask the Minister to include this aspect as well, because it can lead to major, nasty discussions and undermine the acceptance of economic and monetary union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you. We're going to see Mr. Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. The main point of my contribution: first risk reduction, then steps towards possible risk sharing. Otherwise, you'll take the risk of others. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still significant differences between the different EU Member States in the state of the soundness of the banking system;]] [[Whereas the economic situation now gives rise to steps in this area;]] [[Whereas there can only be an increase in risk sharing within the Banking Union where there has been sufficient risk reduction in banking balance sheets;]] [[noting that the order of these steps has been emphasised by the Dutch Government, the AIV, the Eurogroup and the Council of State and is essential for the Netherlands and the risks that the Netherlands is running;]] [[Calls on the Government to share with the Chamber an annual review of progress on measures taken in the context of risk reduction within the European Banking Union;]] [[calls on the Government to also identify the current risks in the banking system of public debt and the broad monetary policy (zero measurement) so that the measures to be taken and the development of risks can be offset;]] [[Finally, calls on the Government not to take irreversible risk-sharing steps before Parliament agrees that risks are sufficiently reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins and Mr Hennis-Plasschaert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u171	Then about the Systemic Risk Board. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) was created in 2010 with the aim of overseeing, preventing and mitigating systemic risks in the EU;]] [[noting that the Governing Board of the ESRB is chaired by the President of the European Central Bank (ECB);]] [[whereas it is precisely the ECB with its buy-back programmes that is responsible for major systemic risks in the EU that makes it undesirable for the President of the ECB to remain President of the ESRB, because systemic risks caused by the ECB are not sufficiently recognised;]] [[calls on the Government to speak out clearly against the proposal that the President of the ECB should become permanent President of the ESRB and not agree to add more members and thus more votes of ECB members to the ESRB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Hennis-Plasschaert and Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u172	Mr President, then the shortest motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the coming years, various proposals for the future of EMU will be part of negotiations between different bodies;]] [[noting that 26 parliaments in the EU support the report "Opening up closed doors: making the EU more transparent for its citizens" and its recommendations;]] [[Whereas greater involvement of citizens and representatives of the people in the decision-making process requires a far-reaching degree of transparency;]] [[Calls on the Government to adopt and include the recommendations contained in this report in the negotiations, in particular with the ESM (or successor), the Eurogroup, the Euro Summits and the Ecofin, so that they comply at least with the Transparency Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Auditors of progress in the area of transparency in spring 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u173	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, but it's a long one, so I'll speak soon. But I'm not filing it until after I compliment the minister on a sentence he said. He said that many good ideas have been eroded in and out of Europe because we have started it too hesitantly. I very much agree with that. This undermines the credibility of the European Union and EMU. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we do better now. I therefore have the next motion, which I would like to make on behalf of Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sneller and Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u174	Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u175	Well, I really need at least another minute to read the motion! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the euro has been successful in achieving low inflation and a relatively stable exchange rate;]] [[noting that there are various proposals and ideas on the table concerning the further strengthening of Economic and Monetary Union (EMU);]] [[noting that the views of the participating countries differ widely;]] [[whereas a future-proof EMU is in the Dutch interest, but the design of it is closely listened to;]] [[Whereas effective and credible EMU requires that all participating countries comply with the agreements/rules and that enforcement instruments are fully exploited;]] [[Whereas the consequences of poor policies in an individual country cannot be passed on to other countries;]] [[Whereas countries are primarily responsible for putting their own house in order, e.g. public finances, resilience economy, sound banking balance sheets;]] [[Whereas a stable currency is important for the euro area;]] [[calls on the government to play an active role in the European discussions on strengthening the stability and resilience of EMU;]] [[calls on the Government to use the following balancing framework for the assessment of the proposals on the table and/or to be submitted:]] [[countries are and will remain primarily responsible for their budget and economy;]] [[existing rules and agreements will not be relaxed but simpler, and their enforcement will become more credible;]] [[no further steps are taken towards a debt community, permanent and/or large-scale transfers;]] [[proposals that directly or indirectly restore the no-bail-out clause are supported;]] [[a possible common public back-up (in the medium term or not) is fiscally neutral;]] [[developing a permanent mechanism for debt restructuring of public authorities in order to obtain European support;]] [[evidence of risk reduction in the Banking Union should take place before participating in structures that may or may lead to increased risk sharing;]] [[there shall be no adjustment in the ESM voting ratio which would veto participating countries other than the emergency procedure;]] [[a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) linking funds in the form of a positive incentive to structural reforms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hennis-Plasschaert, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sneller and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u176	I'm a little distracted. I'm sorry. I'm blaming you again. Go ahead, Mrs. Hennis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u177	What a long motion! Is this an illustration of the confidence between the four coalition parties in shaping economic and monetary union? So many appointments! That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u178	There's something I need to get off my chest. Mr Nijboer, whom I hold high, often speaks with some dedain today. That's what's bothering me. Four parties express their views on a clear balance-of-payments framework. It concerns a complex subject and a lot of proposals. We have brought them back to a number of bullets to make it clear to the cabinet what the bar is for these proposals to be made. Today, it has been pointed out a number of times that this cabinet continues the policy of the previous cabinet on a multitude of points. As a VVD'er I really have no problem with that, but it would adorn Mr Nijboer if he could also be complimented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u179	I'm very generous with compliments. On the issue of tax avoidance, for example, I did so. But what I see now... It is really not customary to file a motion in which every detail is completely negotiated. I have also criticised the coalition agreement in this way, because it simply does not give any direction in this discussion. I think that makes a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u180	I understand Mr Nijboer's comments in that he now belongs to an opposition party. I repeat that this is a very clear balance. Ten pages have been returned to nine bullets. How hard can it be? That will be the measuring bar for this cabinet and this is what these four parties have signed up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u181	If this measuring bar is not met, will the Netherlands support the plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u182	Oh, here we come back to the veto. Look, we said right last time that there are also all kinds of interlinkages between different proposals. That is why we have tried to draw it as far as possible away from all these specific proposals, and towards a number of basic principles. We're all at the beginning of a trial. If you're gonna wave: I have a veto, which we have anyway, you're gonna kill the debate right now. Let us look for a moment at how the proposals will be presented to us, what is the arrangement of such an EMF, or whatever it is called, or what is the arrangement of the common backstop, then we can also determine whether we agree or not. I think that the measuring bar, or the balancing framework, as I have mentioned, is also very insightful for Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u183	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u184	The three pages measuring bar are now being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u185	Well, it's a page and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u186	To be honest, I think that's quite a lot. I'm looking for an answer to the next question. You're so specific about what you're sending the Minister along with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u188	We already had a coalition agreement and this is the measuring bar. If that is not met, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u189	Then we certainly have a good discussion to start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u190	That, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u191	A veto, it's too early for that. That's a bit of a weakness offer, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u192	I think the motion deserves to read back for a moment. I agree with you that there are a number of considerations and observations. That is, of course, because there are four parties involved. It's about the bullets in the end. That's eight or nine. I didn't come from an egg; I was allowed to operate in this house earlier, in the years 2010 to 2012. Long motions are often tabled. These are the bullets with the balancing framework that will be used to assess proposals. That is different from saying at the beginning of the process that we are going to veto this proposal. It is about the balancing framework, the measuring bar, if you like, as it is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u193	I am so curious to see what this weighting framework means when it is moving in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u194	No, this is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u195	Then what does this coalition do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u196	It's gonna be a repeat. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mr. Chairman. I experienced last week's AO and this debate, of course. I really wonder whether it is necessary for this minister, who had and has a clear position, to give such a long text. I will only take the last one, which states that positive incentives should also be included in the multiannual framework. That's a new point, I think. Why would you file such a motion? Don't you have faith in the Minister? Does he need this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u198	I do think this cabinet can use it to get a clear balancing framework from this house. That's exactly why we're filing the motion. Of course I have faith in this minister. I support him on all sides, but we can give him an extra support by taking a clear position in this Chamber on the balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u199	To ask you differently. There are 9 or 10 bullets in there. Is it some kind of cafeteria where the minister can pick a few? Or are they all in conjunction important and perhaps almost binding? You're not talking about a veto, but if you get ten points, you might have to veto your back pocket more than once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u200	Perhaps Mr Van Rooijen thinks: I wish I had come up with this idea. What is written here, if you read the motion in a calm manner, are simply principles that apply to all the proposals that are on the table and that will still be on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u201	I had to laugh with my colleague Ommzigt about Mrs Plasschaert's theatrical explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u202	But Mr Omtzigt is underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u203	I am trying to ask a question because I would like to advise my group on this motion. Through you, I ask Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert what she means by an active role. How does she define it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u204	Well, actually, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u205	That's point 8 or 9, I suspect, or in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u206	With all due respect, I'd like to return to what we just talked about for hours. We call on the cabinet to play an active role. The Minister has already said a lot about it. He also said he could take another step. That is what this motion leads to in the first points, so not just looking at what is happening, but actually looking for allies, building coalitions and bondings, which we have talked about a lot about over the past week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u207	But then you contradict yourself, as a number of colleagues have said. You just indicated that the Minister has set the right course for how he will be in that discussion. He goes in search of connections with parties who support him and can make a critical sound because the Netherlands also has a view on how to take the next steps so wisely that we get the house in order. You still think it is necessary to define that. Then I think you need to define that "active role," because I don't understand exactly what it is. When did it pass? When does the minister meet what you wrote down, and when doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u208	Whether or not the Minister has succeeded, this Chamber decides. We call on the Minister to participate actively and, more importantly, to take the lead. He's doing that now, but it could be even stronger. A little earlier the impression was given that, because France and Germany are getting closer and closer, the Netherlands must join or stand alone. That is, of course, a ridiculous starting point. The Netherlands, too, is entitled to an opinion and has every opportunity to influence other Member States, including Germany and France, where possible. That's how you should read this sentence. Please don't make it bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u209	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u210	Mr. Chairman. When I hear the debate like this, it seems like most of the parties in this Chamber say: we're all playing soccer together, a bit on its Feyenoords, hard work and very defensive, but in the Honor Division, while the real, fun and creative game is played in the Champions League. I think the Netherlands should participate in the Champions League. To stay with the football metaphor: in the debate on minimum corporate tax rates, it is still unclear to me what the Minister did. Was it a first move or a sham move? He'll come back to that in second term. I have a motion on this, along with Mr Nijboer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effective tax on profits for companies is showing a declining trend in the European Union;]] [[Whereas workers have started to pay more and more taxes over the last 20 years and large companies are becoming less and less;]] [[believes that this trend should be reversed and that there should be a floor in the rate for large companies;]] [[calls on the Government to call in Brussels for a European minimum corporate tax rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1293]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u211	Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns the completion of the banking union. In fact, we had this debate yesterday in view of the possibilities for auditors to investigate the supervision of banks. I think this should be in the banking union. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that several national audit offices in the euro area have a limited mandate to examine the supervision of small and medium-sized banks;]] [[noting that national audit firms are increasingly faced with restrictions in their access to data, in particular information from the ECB;]] [[noting that the mandate of the European Court of Auditors is limited in relation to the ECB;]] [[Whereas independent external audit by banking supervisory boards is of great importance for confidence in the banking sector;]] [[Calls on the Government in Europe to actively promote the need to improve the mandate and information position of the Courts of Auditors as an important theme of the completion of the Banking Union;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1294]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u212	On this subject, a motion from the CDA and the SP has been adopted. What if that banking union isn't completed because it's stranded somewhere? Then access for the accountants is a good idea at all, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u213	It is certainly a good idea, but I think it should be an explicit part of completing the banking union. We are still having that debate over the next few months and years. I don't think we should put it aside. That was a bit the Minister's suggestion yesterday in the answer: it is important but it is difficult in Europe. I believe that, when we talk on the European level about EMU and the completion of the banking union, this should be an important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u214	Agreed. I agree. And this discussion about the completion of the banking union and what it should look like: we do not know that either. This should be part of it. My point, however, is actually that, and I would like to stress this, even if the banking union is not completed because it is going somewhere wrong, the access of the auditors and that supervision is still a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u215	Now I understand your question better and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Let me join in the good tradition of first thanking the ruler for answering the questions in detail and to the point. I also think it has been very good that we have had this debate here today. It is a starting point for a follow-up debate and we need that follow-up debate. It's about fundamental matters. It is about the future of the EU/EMU and it is also about the future of the autonomy of the Member States. For these are, as it were, communicating vessels: how to shape it has direct consequences for how you deal with the other. I also had a lot of argument, but I saw the motion in part No. 1292 by Mr Hennis. It is not customary for you, as a colleague, to respond directly to motions, but I have to say that this motion summarizes and even extends my speech to a large extent. I would like to add my congratulations to Mr Hennis for the clear directive she has put forward. You no longer have to guess what my advice to the group will be about voting behaviour. It is a very important framework and I hope that the Minister will be very helpful in getting to grips with this debate. We just need to see what's going on on Twitter and what's going on in the European Commission about things they're interfering with, when they don't have to interfere at all, which is not their domain. The propaganda that is being made sometimes presupposes almost naive gullibility. Then I'm thinking, guys, here just needs to be given a strong political signal. I very much wish the Minister wisdom and skill to pass that on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u218	We owe you two seconds. Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS. How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u219	None, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u220	Look! I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u221	This is a form of entrapment, Mr President, because why are you only asking me? Especially if I don't have one. Remarkable. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 1291 by Mr Omtzigt. I was just saying to Mrs Leijten that it is a bit bizarre that he did not ask me to sign it, while I am the third author of the initiative. I don't think that's very fancy. Mr. Chairman. I can also be brief on Mrs Hennis' motion. I just wonder if this is supposed to be a Dutch annex to the German coalition agreement. Nine requests for an active role. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the questions I asked by the Minister have not been answered. I'll repeat two of them. What are the extraordinary events in budgetary policy? I said, that's subjective. Are new rules going to help again if you have actually noticed that there is a major lack of enforcement in the European Commission? And the second question: I would have liked an answer from the Minister to the opinion article in the Volkskrant this morning by Hoogervorst and Bolkestein, who themselves said: if the monetary rules are not being applied, and if they feel that this is the case, then that will cause the support in Europe, but also in our citizens in the Netherlands, to evaporate. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister once again with Mr Bisschop to continue thinking whether it does not fit on the agenda for the future of Europe and EMU in the longer term to consider, as advocated by the AIV, exit scenarios with the pros and cons of exit, because the absence of exit rules, the non-embodiment of structures, may be a great handicap later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u222	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Finally, Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u223	Mr President, thank you, and also thank you to the Minister for replying. I'm a little sad. This has to do with the fact that we have talked a great deal about the content here. Mr Bruins already indicated it with his eleven, twelve abbreviations. In my speech I also spoke about political and democratic legitimacy. I have indicated that the steps we take in the order in which we have to take them can only be taken if, among other things, we give the European Court of Auditors more powers, if we manage to give the national parliaments powers to watch and also if we manage to get access to documents from the ECB, the eurogroup and the other bodies involved in monitoring and enlargement. To my surprise, these are the words of the Minister as an unexpected friend. I hope that in the second term the Minister will say something about what his commitment is going to be to increase political and democratic legitimacy. As long as we have the possibility of doing so, I still have 48 seconds left. I have one more question. Over the past few weeks, I have studied the ECB a little bit. I would like to ask the Minister what part of the EUR 2,200 billion that has now been used by the ECB to buy up debt really flows to consumers and businesses and thus to the real economy. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u224	Thank you. I think the Minister needs a suspension. How much time do you need? Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u225	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u226	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you, too, to all Members present and not present, for their questions and I would like to say this to their constructive comments. They are many and important issues, and although we do not always agree, it was a debate that helped to sharpen our common thoughts. I have also noted that some of the groups who may not always agree with the cabinet on these parts have also said that they wish me success in Brussels. I'll put it in my pocket. Mr President, I will first deal with a few final questions that have been put to me and then come to the motions. Mr Bruins asked if I have any idea of a time limit for the quantitative measuring bar. It will also be part of the quality of the banking union. I don't have a visual yet. I have already indicated to him that we must complete the exercise internally and I would very much like to see if there is any support for that, including abroad. That makes it much more effective. I am happy to say to him that we will take it back with the Chamber, either in a technical briefing, by means of a letter or in an AO. If I can buy there for some time and have the freedom to determine the means at a later date, then very much so. Mr President, then there were questions from Mr Sneller, among others, about the strength of various countries, where we are not just focusing on a select group that we may already agree with. I very much share that. For this reason, I went to Spain and Portugal during the first week of January, because telling why behind the Dutch position is also very important. I have noticed there, together with the Spanish, that they are not called the Prussians of the South for nothing. Sometimes there's support in places where you might not expect it right away. Mr Sneller did not mention the country, but so did France. The great importance of good relations with France is sometimes underestimated in the Netherlands, which is traditionally oriented towards Germany and England. That is why I have entered into a dialogue with my colleague Bruno Le Maire since the first Eurogroup. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Vpb and the European minimum rate. The same question was asked again and the answer was and is "no." I've had a little more time to check it out. I read it quickly, but I read it exactly. It was more the wish that was the father of Mr Sneller's thought. But I have been very explicit about the word 'can' and that it was others who could start the discussion. That also turned out to be the exact text that corresponds to what the Secretary of State has written before. With great appreciation for his enthusiasm, I think I have been sufficiently precise. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mr Bruins' question on the Franco-German axis. I regret that Mr Van Rooijen has failed. I had answered some of his questions, but not all of his questions. Of course, I'm gonna make that up to you right now. He reminded me that he had asked, or at least had noted, that an article by Mr Bolkestein, among others, was published. I very much agree with what is described in that article: if we are not sharp enough, we will not only get something unwise, but we will also run the risk of eroding trust. I said that at the beginning of the debate in a somewhat long sentence, which Mrs Hennis partly repeated, so I very much agree with that part of the article; by the way, with many other parts as well. A second question from Mr Van Rooijen was about the exit and the pros and cons. Perhaps inspired by the SGP he was now so nuanced in what he asked that I of course cannot resist that. I have one final question from Mr Van Rooijen about the extraordinary events in budgetary policy. It's part of the six-pack, but in the event of extraordinary events, it's more likely to be about extraordinary events in practice. What do we mean? Natural disasters, terrorism, that sort of thing. Then Mr Azarkan asked for political legitimacy. I agree with him that democratic legitimacy and control of the European Court of Auditors are important. I am going to say a few words about the motion tabled, inspired by yesterday's debate with Mr Snels. In view of the relationship between EMU and democratic legitimacy, therefore, the cabinet sees an important role as well. That will not surprise Mr Azarkan for the national parliaments. That is precisely why we want unanimity within the ESM and the ESF to be maintained. As I have said before, knowing, moreover, that this is a path of thorns and thistles, I will also continue to work for greater transparency towards national parliaments. Then Mr Azarkan asked to be able to estimate exactly where the 2 200 billion has still landed a staggering amount of money. It's complicated. Why is it complicated? Because the effect of unconventional monetary policy is not directly visible and you do not know exactly what would have happened otherwise. I understand his question very well. I've also been wondering with the Ministry if we could investigate, but that's getting very complicated. So as much as I understand his question, there's not much more to it than I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u227	Very briefly, Mr Azarkan. It's really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u228	Maybe some other time. If the objective is to ensure that it comes through buying up in the real economy to hunt it, then we measure it by means of effectiveness. Then how do we measure whether the program is effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u229	There are studies that indicate that QE policies have had predominantly positive effects on GDP and inflation. I think that's good to mark. This also shows that the policy has been one of the factors, but I must also say that it has been one of the factors that is likely to have contributed to economic recovery. But there are so many macroeconomic movements going on here at the same time that it becomes very complicated, especially from my position, to detect exactly the impact on that economic growth and therefore the value of ECB policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u230	Then I suggest you move on. We are not going to do the debate again in the second term, Mr Van Rooijen. If you have really asked a question that has not been answered, you may speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u231	I noticed that the Minister did not mention the CPB report the day before yesterday, which says that the effects on growth are very minimal. Could the Minister perhaps respond now or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u232	Well, not now, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u233	Thank you, Mr President! Mr. Chairman. I've arrived at the first motion. Not entirely to everyone's surprise I will discourage them, because the cabinet is for the euro. I should also advise against the second motion, because the cabinet does not share the wording or the underlying logic. I would like to point out, also to Mrs Leijten, that we are really hard at work to complete the banking union and also to do things there which, at least in part, go in the direction of what I suspect is intended by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u234	Short question. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u235	The completion of the banking union but also the capital market union has nothing to do with limiting the power of the financial sector, but rather with trying to prevent us all from being at risk by that financial sector. It's an answer to instead of removing the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u236	Once Mrs Leijten argues that we must also do other things internally, but it is true that this banking union also aims to ensure that citizens are protected in another way. Because what happened in the banking crisis, especially in the Netherlands? That Dutch tax money was used to buy banks. So there is a link between these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u237	Fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u238	I think I was at Mrs Leijten's third motion. We're gonna have to dissuade them. I have already exchanged the view that we have great confidence in Parliament's control and Thorbecke's house and are not in favour of referenda. The motion in part No. 1287 is also about the euro, which we are in favour of, so I must also advise against it. The motion in part No. 1288 was a bit of a puzzle, I say to Mr Nijboer. It is a sympathetic motion, but not so sympathetic that I have a treaty change for it. Because that's what should be. Perhaps Mr Nijboer has asked for this before. So it could be that my answer does not surprise him. But I like to keep the thought in mind. That brings me to the motion in part No. 1289. I would like to leave that to the Chamber, but I would like to point out that I will only translate that letter of 19 January as my first zero measurement of monetary policy. And I repeat what I said last week about what I intend to do with the banking union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u239	Mr Omtzigt also has one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u240	I get that remark that that's seen as zero measurement. I hope that we will not only get qualitative answers, but also quantitative answers in the annual measurements, so that we also have an idea of how much it is going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u241	Very much so. Let me not anticipate what each measurement looks like, but what I agree very much with Mr Omtzig and what I think is true in many of these discussions: if you want to do a good zero measurement and if you want to be able to determine what it is about, then that must be a combination of quantitative and qualitative factors. And I call it quantitatively consciously first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u242	The motion in part No. 1290.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u243	If I make the motion to part No. If 1290 is to be adjusted so that instead of 'not voting' it is to say 'no' to me, then I can just go through one door with the proposers. So that would be my request and otherwise I would have to discourage the motion. With regard to the motion in part No. 1291 I also understand what the proposers want. I should discourage the motion now, because the cabinet response is still coming. My suggestion would be to hold the motion. Then maybe there'll be a moment when we get to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u244	So hold it or else dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u245	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1292: support in the back. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1293 I must advise against. We haven't even started the discussion on that yet. I have just said a few words about this to Mr Snels. On the motion in part No. 1294 by Mr Snels I am more positive. Because what he observed yesterday, I think, was exactly what I said yesterday about the dilemma that has arisen. I would like to point out that where Mr Snels speaks in the motion on an important issue of completion, I read that it is not a condition. So if I may do the exegesis on the text so that it says what it says, then I can leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. Mr President, I am through the questions, the motions and everything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u246	Thank you. So you can see that, despite the fact that I was very strict, we walked almost half an hour, but that really isn't up to the Minister this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-6.u247	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
