ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks. I shall begin with Mrs Van Tongeren's suicide note. "Dear President, dear Khadija, With a huge sense of privilege, but also melancholy, I leave the House of Representatives today. In my life I have always tried to mean something to people in trouble, to people with ideas, with problems and with solutions to make the Netherlands more beautiful, greener and fairer. For eight years, I was allowed to do that here. With joy, even wonder, I look back on what succeeded. But especially with gratitude for the many years that I was allowed to be a member of the House of Representatives." Let's look for the next page. But I almost memorized the letter. "Just installed Gerdi Verbeet had us practice in this room. I told you what it was like to be the first woman in our family to study how proud everyone was in our neighborhood. My CDA parents even voted GroenLinks for the first time. On my first day as a Member of Parliament, I met the oral question. Camiel Eurlings assured me that he had not been asked by the KLM. After that, another aspect of this beautiful and high office became clear. Appearances and reality and all the gradations in between. Ger Koopmans taught me that it is essential to have knowledge of what you are debating. When I walked into the room with a beautiful text, which was written for me by an associate but I didn't quite understand it, it was raining out of it, which I only managed to save myself moderately. That was never gonna happen again, I imagined. Han ten Broeke taught me the commission work. As chairman, he gave advice by text message."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Now it comes to this: "This can be done at the poll; you have to do this in plenary; you have to gather a majority for this first." It's not that bad. "And then the solidarity between the female MPs. How Stientje van Veldhoven always arranged the presentations for every sensitive debate. How Agnes Mulder kept the mood up with her yelling smile and the best one to party with. Vera Bergkamp, who generously shared her input and motions when I came into the plenary room moderately prepared because I had to do two debates at the same time. Carla Dik-Faber, who was always ready with a cup of coffee and advice. How you could talk to Sharon Gesthuizen about the impact of politics on your private life. Such solidarity is urgently needed, because although it is now 2018, national politics in the Netherlands is still a man's block. The fact that you get to know your friends and colleagues, especially at your lows, also goes into politics. When we came back in 2012 with only four MPs, we took part. The D66 colleagues came to me with courage. Gerard Schouw and Boris van der Ham said: "Oh, we have been there with three MPs." That did me a great job."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	"But then politics continues to surprise you, when you are not put on the candidate list by an internal committee. That gave me a pinch of self-esteem. The reaction that came loose within our party, at the Binnenhof and among people throughout the country makes it more difficult to leave now. That support meant that I did not turn my back on politics at the time but dared to continue and now take the step towards a politically-administrative position. I often felt loud and clear that more women should be in administrative positions, that women should say yes, even if it is not really a good time. And then I was asked to be an alderman. I take a deep bow for all employees of the House of Representatives. For their kindness, their service and especially for the rest they do keep. All GroenLinksers I am going to thank exuberantly at a later moment. And then Groningen, oh poor Groningen: Annemarie, Susan, Sybrand, Pieter, Hans, Ria and the other 180,000 families who live and try to live there. To survive! If I may leave this Chamber with a burning wish, an assignment for all members, not only for the energy spokesmen.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Happy regards, Liesbeth van Tongeren "
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	Dear Mrs. Van Tongeren, dear Liesbeth, Today, after almost eight years of parliamentary membership, you're going to say goodbye to the Chamber. After a social career in Australia and directorship at environmental organisation Greenpeace, you acquired a Chamber seat on 17 June 2010. The French philosopher Alain once said: "La vie est un travail qu'il faut faire debout." Life is a job you have to do while standing upright. Alain died a few years before you were born. Still, it seems like this pronunciation was written for you. Fier and upright, that's your hallmark. That's how you always walk to the interrupting microphone. Literally and figuratively. That's how the media write about you: pitbull, knuckle, rigorous. A combatant MP. In the Chamber, you continued to fight unflinchingly. Your favorite opponent, Minister Henk Kamp, called you a pain in the ass. To add: "But well-informed and particularly effective." In 2013 you won the title The Hague Twitter Queen. No one in the Chamber was as active on Twitter as you. You tweet about green topics, of course. But you can also fight everyday sexism. It must have irritated you a little bit, I think, that that same minister here in the Chamber at the beginning was able to confuse you with one of the other blonde MPs twice. One time your name was Stientje van Veldhoven and the other time Madeleine van Toorenburg. At the end of 2016, you were stunned when you heard your party didn't put you on the list. You took your loss generously. Even now, you stayed upright. There were statements of support from all sides. This support made you decide to campaign for yourself anyway. It ended up giving you place six on the list of candidates. And in the election, you won 25,856 preferred votes. You fought for a gasless future and better compensation for the Groningers. The president of the Groninger Gas Council gave you a silver necklace with a pendant in the form of the province, a medal of merit that has come to mean a great deal to you. Winston Churchill's statement in your Twitterbio has become your personal mantra: "It takes courage to stand up and speak; it also takes courage to sit down and listen." You paid many visits to fellow and opponents in the country. And you listened. Just because you're gonna leave us again doesn't hurt a bit. A MP who tries so hard to stay in the Chamber and gets high on the list and then leaves? I'm very sorry about that, and you're disappointing your constituents. It will not be easy for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to miss your experience in the Chamber. You're gonna be alderman, a couple doors down here. From the warm Binnenhof you go to the Ice Palace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	But as we know you, Liesbeth, you will always be a combative type. But now that you're gonna be a driver, your listening ear will be of even greater value. I wish you every success here in The Hague. Take care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	After the votes, I shall suspend Mrs Van Tongeren's farewell.
