ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u1	The next item is the continuation of the VAO Organised crime/undermining. I would like to thank both directors for their presence, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the people at home. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Same place, same suit, same motion and yet not everything seems the same today. Something really happened on Thursday. I will not refer to that further. I have received a great deal of support from all sides, here in the Chamber, from colleagues, from people I still know very well, from people I did not know at all. I would like to thank everyone for that, but I would also like to pass that support on to everyone who is here. Because I was in the picture, but a lot of others have seen and acted on what happened, and they deserve that same support. I would very much like to convey that thanks. We shall now proceed, as it is called, to the order of the day and I shall finish the motion I wanted to table and read it again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that mixing of the underworld and the upper world poses a threat to security and the rule of law;]] [[Whereas, in order to prevent the mixing of the underworld and the upper world, it is desirable to allow entrepreneurs to be subject to prior scrutiny by a public authority or the person or undertaking involved in doing business, whether or not they are in integrity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to carry out a form of screening or integrity investigation for entrepreneurs and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arno Rutte, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u4	Thank you. I'm just gonna take a look at the rulers. I think they can respond immediately to the motions that have been tabled. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u5	Madam President. If it is all right with you, I shall briefly repeat the contents of the motion, not the recitals of the motion, because otherwise it is not easy for the viewers to agree and it does not exactly do justice to the authors either. The first motion is from Mrs. Chicken. It invites the Government to consider whether and how the Tax Office can start to share information with mortgage financiers in order to prevent fraud. Under Article 67 of the General Law on State Taxation, the Tax Administration has a legal obligation of confidentiality with regard to all information that has become known in the course of the tax law. In view of this article alone, the tax authorities can only exchange data with private parties if the obligation to provide data is regulated by law. In addition, the inclusion of an obligation to provide data in Article 67 AWR in favour of private parties presents too high a risk of precedent. A legal obligation for the Tax Administration to provide data in this context should therefore rather be laid down in sectoral legislation relating to banks. See also Article 67 (2) (a) of the AWR. For example, the Financial Supervision Act, the Wft, can be considered. The Tax Administration is very aware that the fight against fraud and the related privacy have political attention. There are several developments that need to streamline data exchange between government bodies, such as the General Data Protection Regulation, the implementation of which is foreseen for this spring. In addition, a state-wide exploration is underway for a framework law that regulates the provision of data between administrative bodies and possibly private parties. Perhaps, in particular, the latest development in the long term will also provide pointers for the position of the Tax Administration in providing information to a private party. However, as has been said, the Tax Administration has no means of providing information to banks. Nevertheless, the Tax Administration realises that banks can play a role in the fight against fraud and that banks for the Tax Administration are an important partner in the fight against fraud. Banks already have several possibilities to verify income data in order to prevent mortgage fraud. I mention the possibility to verify income data together with the mortgage applicant via the data on MijnOverheid.nl and MijnBelastingdienst.nl. So that's together with the applicant. Another possibility is that the applicant provides the bank with that information in a validated PDF file. But for the reasons set out, I advise against the motion. In Mrs Kuik's second motion, that is the motion in part No. 183 The Government is invited to consider whether the information sharing can be extended by the FIOD to the RIEC and how this can be done. When drafting the undermining legislation, we are looking at this question of extending the possibilities for information sharing between public administrations such as the FIOD. So I'll leave the verdict on the motion to your Chamber. The third motion by Mrs Kuiken is the motion in part No. 184... will discuss my colleague Dekker. Then there is Mr Van Nispen's motion. That's the motion in part No. 185. In that motion, the government is asked to do what is necessary to make every criminal case with which money has been earned a take-away. I see that motion as supporting standing policy. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Taking away is an important part of the fight against organised crime. Crime can't pay off. Taking the clue from the D.A.'s office shows that the starting point is and remains that in each case it is considered whether it can be taken away. Then the next motion. That is a motion by Mr Grootehuizen of D66 and Mr Rutte of the VVD calling on the government to examine as soon as possible how the problem of the delay in the pick-up sessions can be resolved and, if necessary, to prepare legislation on the setting of deadlines. The picture presented by Members that the written preparation is delaying is not correct. The purpose of the written preparation is to facilitate an expeditious examination of the withdrawal claim. In addition, the adoption of conclusions in writing saves the capacity to sit, which also contributes to the rapid handling of other criminal and withdrawal cases. In doing so, the court or court also sets and monitors time limits. In this respect, although the time limits are not laid down by law, they are governed by the requirement of treatment within a reasonable period of time of the ECHR, as Mr Rutte and Mr Groothuizen know. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court should ensure that the trial takes place within a reasonable period of time. The same applies to the withdrawal procedure. The imposition of a general legal deadline adds nothing substantial to this and also raises the question of what an appropriate sanction is when the deadlines set are not respected. Finally, the length of the period will depend on the complexity of the case and on the basis of the conclusions to be drawn. I therefore advise against the motion because its implementation will not bring about the desired change in practice and because it has already been properly regulated in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u6	I see an interruption by Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u7	First of all, I would like to ask a very clear question, because there are two motions, and the Minister seemed to put a bit of one hope in his answer. Maybe the Minister can tell us exactly how he is looking at the individual motions. We are talking about the Groothuizen/Arno Rutte motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 187.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u8	This was about the motion, I must read it all out: "The Chamber heard the debate, considering that the taking away of criminally acquired assets is an important part of the approach..."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u9	That's the motion in part No. 187.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u10	Okay, then I have to apologize, Madam President. Then the motion is in part No. 186 and the motion in part No. 187 exchanged in my folder. I now come to the motion calling on the government to address the problem of completing withdrawal procedures as soon as possible. That's the fifth motion, the motion in part No. 186.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u12	That's clear. I await the verdict on the motion on item No. 186 just a little bit off. That does not mean that the Minister does not already have a number of things on the sixth motion, the motion in part No. 187 said. I don't agree with him on that. I was allowed to do this job myself for two years as a takeaway officer. I can tell the Minister from his own experience that these written rounds do lead to delays in practice. That is not necessary, but the problem is that it is very often easily asked for and that they are also easily given by courts. Then at some point you get the effect that those things keep dragging around endlessly. I have also tried to explain this in the first term. I believe that a legal deadline would improve that. That makes it less easy to grant that postponement. How to put a sanction on that is just the question. It's up to the Minister to investigate. But one option might be to be late when people submit a response, just ignore that reaction in taking off the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u13	That written preparation is precisely why you are already on steam in the written documents, and you also save seat capacity. I have already said that, but I admit that might have come a little wrong, because there was some confusion about the songs. Both these things contribute to a vigorous treatment. Furthermore, I would repeat myself. So I'm holding up my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u14	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u15	Finally, I think the Minister is misinterpreting my motion. I am not saying that the written preparation must end. I say: if there is a written preparation, and it is sometimes very good, because it is a good thing to be able to deal with the matter already, we must make sure that we do so quickly within the deadlines. That's where the bottleneck is. So I am not saying that I want to get rid of the written preparation, but if we do, I want to have clear deadlines. That's what the motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u16	Well, the complicated thing is: the first piece of the motion now we're gonna dissect her a little bit. The government is calling for an early investigation into how the problem can be solved. I said that this is not entirely a problem, but I would certainly like to go so far as to see whether this is indeed a problem and whether something should be done about it. However, in the second part, I find it difficult to accept the mandate to come up with legislation on time-limits. If I could explain the motion in such a way that "if necessary" means "if the Minister thinks it is necessary," then I can live with the motion. But I do not know if that is what Mr Groothuizen means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u17	I'll take a look at Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u18	As far as I am concerned, the Minister is somewhat inclined to meet me, but not quite enough. If the Minister is going to investigate how we can ensure that, if that written round is in place, it does not go too far beyond the deadlines, then I think the Chamber should have that inquiry. Then the Chamber should draw another conclusion from that. It does not seem to me that it is up to the Minister alone to assess this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u19	No, I suspected something like that. But I have another direction of resolution. If the motion were to be reworded as 'calls on the government to investigate whether there is a problem here, and if so, to look at a possible solution to it', then I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u20	A hand-off from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u21	Another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u22	I am certainly going to look at the text, but I think this is actually what is in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u23	Well, no, that's not entirely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u24	The Minister continues his assessment of the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u25	Yes. I now come to the motion in part No. 187, I think. Or is it the motion in part No. 186?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u26	It's no. 186. No. 187 you just had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u27	Yes. We shall now have the motion for a resolution on the completion of the withdrawal procedures. The argument is that this takes a long time, partly because of the usually not simultaneous treatment of the substance. That motion can be seen as supporting planned policies. The intention is indeed to use the opportunity offered by the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure to speed up the withdrawal procedure. The idea of dealing with this more at the same time as the criminal case is closely linked to the new system of that modernised code. It is also reflected in the legislation that the detection of allegedly illegally obtained benefit is part of the investigation in general. Against this background, it is undesirable to inform the section which Mr Groothuizen and Mr Rutte have in mind of this modernisation and to put it separately in the old system. This will not happen any faster, since the legislation on modernisation is already going to the Council of State in December of this year. I would therefore like to say that if Mr Grothuizen agrees with me that this goes along with the Code of Criminal Procedure, if that could be the thrust of the motion, then I could leave it to the Chamber. But if he really wants to push this forward, I'm gonna advise the motion. But perhaps the motion can also be held until December 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u28	You give several scenarios to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u29	I disagree with the Minister. The approach to undermining is a priority of this cabinet. The Court has ruled that the removal of this is an essential element. We can see there's a bottleneck here. That is not disputed by the Minister either. As far as I am concerned, it is not natural to wait until the Code of Criminal Procedure is modernised. I can still live with the fact that a bill dealing with this issue will be published early next year. Only, then, there is a huge package of legislation, which is very broad. That is what we, as a Chamber, are doing for a very long time. So I think it makes sense to take this out. It's a relatively clear something. I think it fits in with the undermining approach. So I would say, Minister, just get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u30	I think the Minister will remain silent on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u31	Yeah, I think it's a shame, but then I'm really gonna stick with dissuading it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u32	Let me make it clear that this is the motion in part No. 186. It's being dissuaded. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u33	The motion by Mr Grothuizen to item No. 188 calls on the Government, as soon as possible in the UN Security Council, to propose a mechanism to prosecute and prosecute the leaders of gangs involved in migration crime. I share the view of the author, Mr Groothuizen, that the forms of crime against migrants and refugees which make them victims on the way are very serious and, in any case, degrading. Indeed, the leaders of criminal organisations guilty of this must be addressed. The establishment of a mechanism to prosecute and judge those leaders is a considerable task, and we expect a great deal of resistance, both from countries that see no role for the United Nations or the Security Council on this issue, and from countries that oppose financial implications arising from the establishment of such mechanisms. In the AA, I promised the Chamber that Secretary of State Harbers would give a detailed response to the D66 Action Plan. By the way, you have heard me give a very positive response on this matter. But Harber's reaction is coming this summer. I would ask you to allow us that time and hold the motion until then, so until after the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u34	Mr. Groothuizen, are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u35	I'd like to do that. I was indeed a bit looking for when the Secretary of State's response would come. If it comes before or in the summer, it will be timely enough. Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u36	At the request of Mr Grothuizen, I propose his motion (29911, No. 188). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u37	In the motion in part No. 189 members of Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Rutte are asked to make a doubling of the penalty rate for Category II weapons provided for in the Arms and Ammunitions Act. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Rutte that the availability and use of automatic firearms is absolutely reprehensible. That has no other purpose than to use them to commit crimes and violence. The possession of these weapons is therefore strictly prohibited in the Act. The authors rightly point out the serious consequences of the use of these weapons for the execution of liquidations and the feelings of insecurity that this leads to. As everyone knows, it has already occurred that innocent bystanders were victims of such liquidations. That is also why the police and the public prosecutor are working hard on this wave of liquidation. There is therefore a strict policy of prosecution with regard to the possession and use of automatic weapons. The mere possession of those weapons leads to the defendant being arraigned and taken into custody. The current prosecution directive of the Public Prosecutor prescribes a 100% higher penalty requirement for the illegal possession and trafficking of automatic firearms compared to the penalty requirement in the case of non-automatic firearms. Given the scope available to the public attorney's office within the framework of the current laws and regulations, I do not think that an amendment to the legislation is appropriate at the moment. But I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I agree that I will enter into consultations with the Public Prosecutor on the handling of the possession and use of automatic firearms, and on how the prosecution policy relates to the seriousness of the fact. In my last motion, Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on part No. 190, the Government is requested to provide undermining legislation with a legal definition of what is meant by "undermining." There is no strictly defined definition of "undermining" because it does not in the nature of the case deal with a specific problem. If we define that, there's a danger that we'll see all kinds of things disappear from the table top in the crime scene descriptions. It is a broad collection of phenomena that are to a large extent reflected in the national threat picture of organised crime, but in addition, "undermining" also indicates the undermining effects that these forms of crime have on society. Undermining is also described in the Future Agenda Undermining along these lines. It is a collective concept within a larger set of legislative proposals, each of which contributes to strengthening the fight against undermining crime, such as anti-undermining. The drafting of the various legislative proposals will specify and explain what this legislation envisages. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u38	Do I understand that the Minister will make clear in the individual legislative proposals exactly what they apply to? I said something about that in the AO too. For example, the regional mayors say on their website that it is about crime that threatens the integrity of society, for example the large-scale evasion of taxes, the laundering of criminal money and the like. The police have a very different definition, with the example of nuisance hanging young people on a square, who make sure that residents do not dare to press charges. That's really a different category. GroenLinks also wants a firm approach to undermining and this sometimes requires unorthodox measures. But if all of a sudden everything can be covered, it will lead to an undermining of legal certainty. Can I trust that a little more of an indication will be given for each individual measure, so that it is not also a question of hanging young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u39	If you are asking whether we are going to go more and more towards a framework of the concept in the next steps, then I can answer yes. Once again, it is already reasonably defined in the future agenda. With this last sentence, I do not want to detract from what I said to you earlier. The anti-undermining and anti-undermining approach is certainly intended to have a clear framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u40	I'll do it with that. I hope that such a clear framework is still being worked on. For example, the title of this VAO alone: undermining crime and organised crime. That is, of course, partly intertwined. I particularly care that we are very careful. Where necessary, we need to take unorthodox measures, but we also need to understand very well what they apply to. I think of this as an encouragement from the Minister. I would like to ask him whether he can be a little more positive about the idea of a better definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u41	I will certainly look at how we can better frame it, so that it is clear that it has a certain range, but I stand by my judgment to discourage the inclusion of the definition in the undermining legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u42	Thank you. Then there are two motions left. I would very much like to give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u43	Mr. Chairman. It is two motions which mainly concern screening. In the motion in part No. 184 asks Mrs Kuiken to consider how information from the Bibob study that poses a serious threat to society can be shared between the municipalities, similar to the prostitution permit. I think it is important to put first that every administrative body should also make its own assessment of any refusal under the Bibob Act when applying for authorisation. The Bibob Office may issue an opinion to that effect. It is already possible for administrative bodies to ask the Bibob Office if an applicant for authorisation has previously been the subject of advice from Bureau Bibob. However, even if an administrative body is not aware of a previous rejection by another administrative body pursuant to the Bibob Act, another Bibob investigation may be carried out following the new application. Then it is very conceivable that this new application will also be refused on the same grounds as in the previous refusal. The point is that it is always a case-like consideration. So refusal of an application in one municipality does not automatically mean refusal in another municipality. According to a Bibob study, it is never concluded that an applicant constitutes an overall integrity risk. That conclusion shall always be drawn in the context of a specific application for authorisation. For municipalities, it is possible to support each other in the application of the Bibob Act. This can also be helpful in conducting own research, within the framework of the law. In your motion, you specifically designate an analogy to the prostitution license. Then I assume that you refer to the national register provided for in the pending law on prostitution. I would like to see how administrative bodies within the framework of the Bibob Act can further inform each other about the existing possibilities. In doing so, I will also consider whether registration of refused permits has added value. In doing so, we need to look at privacy aspects and the implementation costs. I would point out once again that a kind of generic blacklist may not be desirable and in any case very likely will not be legally sustainable. But having said all this, I can give a ruling Chamber on the motion. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Rutte's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u44	Before you go any further, Mrs. Kuik has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u45	I'm very pleased with the judgment. I understand that care should be taken in this regard. Nevertheless, you know me by now: I am slightly impatient when it comes to tackling undermining. So I would like to know within what timeframe we can know how to accommodate municipalities in this wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u46	We do not really want to come up with some sort of one-clap scenario, with one big piece of legislation. It'll go in instalments. I'm gonna take a look at my neighbor for the timeline. There's gonna be another bibob round before the summer? Yes. Then we can let them know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u47	That's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u48	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 191. He asks for a form of screening or integrity research for entrepreneurs. The Bibob Act, which is sometimes referred to in the debate, aims to prevent the unintentional facilitation of crime by the government. To this end, far-reaching powers are made available, justified by the importance of protecting the integrity of the government. The relationship between entrepreneurs is therefore beyond the reach of the Bibob, one might say. It may also not be desirable to make available to private parties the sensitive data associated with the application of the Bibob Act. There are many registers, such as trade registers, insolvency registers, bankruptcy registers, which entrepreneurs can use. In addition, on the advice of the regional mayors, I would like to see whether an alternative form of screening is possible for the benefit of these private parties. I see this motion in line with that and therefore I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-39.u50	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament. We'll go straight to the next VAO.
