ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Ten Broeke, Mr VVD, and Mr Van Helvert, Mr CDA, which lays down rules for the use of armed private maritime guards on board Dutch merchant ships, and that is Parliamentary document 34558. I warmly welcome both initiators and thank them for this initiative. The initiators are supported in the defense of their bill in trade union K by a number of members of their group: Joël Serphos and Jasper Boon of the VVD group and Bas Wiegmans of the CDA group. I would also like to welcome them. A word of welcome, of course, is also addressed to the Minister for Justice and Security, who has also gone into trade union K. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. For the sake of clarity, questions could be addressed to him as well. Today is only the first term of office. The continuation of the debate will be scheduled at a later date in consultation with the initiators. I am now the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mr Van Oosten of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Pirates are unfortunately of all times. Already in the time of the VOC, measures were forced to protect themselves against piracy. Unfortunately, this is no different in our modern times. After all, there is little point in calling the police on the high seas. Protection must therefore be organised in a different way. In doing so, the Dutch navy and our marines have proved crucial. By contributing to international anti-piracy missions and by using the so-called Vessel Protection Detachment, the VPD, a lot of misery has been avoided. However, despite all the efforts of Dutch Navy people, it is also necessary for Dutch ships to be able to operate in accordance with legislation in all our neighbouring countries, I say that if such a team is not possible, for example due to lack of time or space. This contributes to the adequate security and protection of those thousands of men and women, including Dutch men and women, who work on a merchant ship flying the Dutch flag. They deserve a safe pace and therefore protection against pirates. In addition, I am completely honest and clear about the commercial interests of the Dutch fleet. If all the countries around us allow private security guards but we do not, that disturbs the position of the Dutch maritime sector. They may miss out on assignments because they cannot meet the security standards that crews, cargo owners and insurers rightly expect in transport. The result is that ships may be deflagged. This affects the entire Dutch shipping sector. So these are not just the shipping companies, they are also the yards, the banks, the legal service providers and you name it all. This employment is very important for the Netherlands. This bill fits in with it. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore appropriate to congratulate the initiators on their work. The right of initiative is a special privilege that belongs only to Members of Parliament, but it also requires a great deal of work. It is simply fantastic that colleagues Ten Broeke and Van Helvert were prepared to do so. Nevertheless, I would like to ask both initiators a number of questions which are particularly relevant to the drafting of the legislative text and the desired functioning of the law. I will put a single question to the Minister for Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. Article 9 deals with possible acts of violence. I'd like to have more information on the relationship between the team leader of the private security guards and the captain of the ship. Who has the last word on the violence? Violence should not be applied unless the commitment is determined in consultation. How am I supposed to imagine that? Is consensus necessary in all cases? How do the initiators look at the situation in which consultations with the captain prove impossible as a result of 'extreme urgency', as our southern neighbours have, I understand, formulated this very nicely? I would also like to hear from the Minister the state of play of the circular use of force announced. In particular, I would like to hear from the Minister about the position of the captain. Mr. Chairman. A completely different point. Article 12 deals with the authorisation of a private security company. The licence is not transferable, as it says explicitly. But how is corporate takeovers handled or mergers, for example? What is the impact of this on licences issued? I also read that it is intended that, if necessary, all actions of private security officers can be recorded, for example, with a main camera. Can the initiators indicate to me whether this is common practice in this sector and whether there are sufficient technical means available for this? Mr. Chairman. One of these VPDs, a Marine team, is made up of at least 11 men. A private security team consists of four people. The difference would be explained by the method, but is the level of security comparable? If so, why don't Navy teams choose that? Mr. Chairman. Then the deployment of private teams within territorial waters. It follows from the law that this commitment cannot be and I understand that, but can territorial waters always be adequately avoided? I'm thinking, for example, I took the atlas with me for a while -- the Gulf of Aden, where it listens closely. So will the initiators go into this in greater detail? Finally, the VVD supports this initiative. The Netherlands traditionally pilgrimage the world seas, the merchant navy is a pillar of our prosperity, and legislation fits in with customised legislation. Once again, it is therefore a good thing that the initiators submit this proposal for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. We are now going to listen to Mr Markuszower's contribution on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u4	Mr President, thank you very much. For eight years, Mr De Roon, today the chairman, on behalf of my group, the PVV, has been advocating the admission of private security to Dutch merchant ships. An urgent necessity, because the Dutch army is not always able to adequately protect merchant ships. Safe strategic transit routes are essential for a trading nation like the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a country with a huge maritime sector, adding billions to the Dutch economy. Piracy threatens, also in 2018, our shipowners, the safety of the crew of Dutch merchant ships and our economy. Anyone who threatens Dutch crews and interests on our Dutch merchant ships on our important transit routes must be eliminated. Normally, Dutch soldiers, such as marines, would be used to protect our people and our interests. But if those soldiers are not available, then armed private security must be made possible. We cannot be surprised that the Dutch army has not been able to protect our Dutch merchant ships in recent years. Rutte II and Rutte III do everything for everyone, except for the ordinary Dutch. VVD and CDA in particular should be ashamed of themselves. They are committed to the interests of the whole world, but the Dutch interest is not served. The Dutch are consistently abandoned by this cabinet. All other European countries with a maritime interest have made it legally possible for their merchant ships to hire private maritime security, but the Netherlands did not want to. SP, PvdA, GroenLinks and D66 all warmly supported by Mrs Van Toorenburg's CDA, who is now chatting in the back of the room, have blocked every effort in recent years to make this possible. Today, however, the name of the CDA as co-subscriber shows up at the top of this bill. It is hypocritical and embarrassing that the CDA, if this bill is passed, will take credit. For years they have abandoned the Dutch shipowners, deliberately created and maintained a security deficit for the Dutch merchant ships, put unnecessary Dutch crews at risk, unnecessarily took employment from the Netherlands and unnecessarily took away tens of millions of euros from the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u5	I'm just curious why the PVV didn't make an initiative law of its own. It's a lot of work, but it puts a subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u6	We tabled a motion in 2016 and we argued for it in AO's. Our motion was not supported, not by your group, not by the CDA Group, and I shall come back to it in my speech shortly, oddly enough, not by the VVD Group either. So we are not crazy Henkie: we are not going to serve your need to make an initiative legislative proposal. Of course, if our motion is agreed, we are not going to write an initiative legislative proposal like a madman, because that is what you had agreed to. Or are you telling me that you voted in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u7	No, in fact, there is a good chance that GroenLinks will not vote for this either. It is true that we are now discussing this issue very seriously. You can wipe out everyone's cloak that it hasn't been serious on the agenda, but perhaps the PVV will succeed. You are with a lot of people now, too, once again to put constructively on the table what they do want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u8	Well, it's been on the agenda. It's just my group's agenda, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 -- I don't know about this and in 2016 -- I don't know about it. You were not with all those AOs that Mr De Roon was with and argued for year after year over and over again. In 2016, when you were also in this Chamber, a motion was tabled. Then the CDA agreed, your party voted against and the VVD voted against. So it was on the agenda, but now, after all the pirouette twists of, for example, the CDA, there may, perhaps, only be a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u9	The atmosphere is right, may I conclude. I find it a bit sad that the PVV Group is now screaming, as if all parties had not given serious thought to how to organise this best. There are a lot of hooks and eyes on it, and we have put together the government's monopoly of violence. So you have to take a serious look at this. The cabinet's been working on it, but it turned out to be complicated. As a result, these initiators have taken over. But that wipes the PVV with a kind of touch off the table, as if a serious consideration is never made. Maybe it's okay if the PVV knows that debate and laws just make blood, sweat and tears ask and ask that you seriously try to get everyone along. With a simple motion, we're not gonna change the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u10	Does Mrs Van Toorenburg say that she is not going to table any more motions for this Chamber period? I don't think so. But about that "'serious': as early as 2014, a very serious study, which is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, has been made on allowing private security and the argument against the government's monopoly of violence. I believe that a committee has been working in this Chamber since 2011. Your party had more than enough time to seriously consider the idea of allowing private security on merchant ships. All the other European countries, including your sister groups in those countries, have given very serious thought to this and have all voted in favour of it. This CDA, in this Chamber, didn't want to, not because it hadn't had time to look at it seriously, but it didn't want to; it just wanted to abandon those merchant ships and their crews. And now, for six months or so, you've changed your mind, you've played a little piroue and you want to. But don't tell me there wasn't enough time to take a serious look at it. This problem of piracy has been going on for over a decade. I think that's enough time, even for the good-looking heads of the CDA, to have thought this through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u11	This was another tsunami of ugly talk. We finally note that it has been a complicated process and that there are two parties in Box K, namely the VVD and the CDA, which are now offering this bill to the Chamber. The only thing the PVV does and that we recognize is screaming, not only from the sideline, but now from the chair. That actually shows how extremely pathetic it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u12	Well, pathetic... The only thing I can imagine that happened is that the CDA was too vain to support the PVV's motion on this subject and would like to make good decoration with a bill a year later. Vanity does not strike me as a great trait for a serious politician, so I would advise Mrs Van Toorenburg to be less vain and more substantive, to protect merchant ships and their crew and the Dutch economy and to submit or approve laws or motions to that effect in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u13	Mr Markuszower continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u14	There are therefore unnecessarily dozens of euros taken from the Dutch economy. After all, how many Dutch merchant ships have chosen not to trade under the Dutch flag in recent years? How many foreign shipowners have not chosen the Dutch flag? Today, I say again, especially to the CDA: you are ashamed! In recent years, the CDA and all those other parties have made every effort to bring in the boats with tens of thousands of lucky seekers, while our Dutch merchant ships, one of the pillars of the Dutch economy, have been skilfully chased away. The VVD is also blamed. Last year, I just referred to it, my group tabled a motion calling on the government to allow the presence of armed private guards on Dutch merchant ships. That was almost exactly the same proposal. It's a little heavier than it is now. The VVD and, in fact, all the other parties in the Chamber voted against at that time. However, today, the proposers on behalf of the VVD and the CDA are doing a good job with a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u15	What's Mr. Markuszower been complaining all along about what happened in the past? It's a nice bill, isn't it? Just go support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u16	Whether it's a nice bill has yet to be seen. I also have a few questions, Mr. Baudet. They need to be answered. Perhaps you also have a few questions; then we can make it even nicer. But let me read my text and if you still think I'm whining, you can say that at the end. I think I'm getting to my substantive story now and I'm going to focus on it now. The bill is, as we know the VVD and the CDA, too little, too late: too late and just not enough heavy. However, I am also saying this in relation to the question I have just been asked, it is something and something is sometimes better than nothing. So let me, as usual in the Chamber, thank the authors for the legislative proposal before us and ask them a number of substantive questions. Could the authors clarify Article 11? This article states that, after any use of force, a notification must be made to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office will then check that all conditions are met and, if necessary, the prosecution will proceed to criminal proceedings. Can the applicants and, where appropriate, the Minister indicate whether the prosecution in the case of acts of violence committed by a member of the VPD, Vessel Protection Detachment, a protection structure which the Dutch army makes available to merchant ships, acts differently than in the case of acts of violence committed by the private maritime security officer, and if so, to what extent? How did other countries regulate the legal position of the private security guard on merchant ships, in particular in relation to that of a member of the VPD or their peers, their equivalent, in other countries? Are the applicants, my next question, and possibly the Minister with my group, of the opinion that if the prosecution investigates an incident of violence committed by a privately hired maritime security officer, it should not be placed in custody by the prosecution? Mr. Chairman. I would like to have clarification on Article 9, the warning shot article. When, in the opinion of the proposers, can a warning shot be fired? At what point? Do the proposers and, if necessary, the Minister with my group think that if a pirate ship approaches the Dutch merchant ship at great speed and does not respond to the warning shot fired, the security guards are allowed to shoot? Are the proposers with my group of the opinion that pirate ships should not be allowed to get too close to the Dutch merchant ship, let us say: no closer than half a mile, about one kilometer, and that pirates should certainly not be given the opportunity to board? If the authors agree with my group, how do I see Article 9 (3) which states that the security guards must refrain from violence directed at fatal injury? This seems to be an addition born or born out of a cowardly compromise. How am I supposed to read "not aimed at fatal injury"? If a dangerous pirate approaches a Dutch ship, the pirate must be stopped. If the stop shot turns out to be a deadly shot, can't the security guard be prosecuted? That security guard will do his job and should be congratulated on the fact that he has defended Dutch shipowners and Dutch interests; please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Markuszower. There is another question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u18	Yes, Mr President, a brief question on Rule 9. Mr Markuszower referred to paragraph 3; I believe that that is what it is. That article looks at a situation where a security guard is forced to shoot a pirate. Self-defense can of course be a reason not to be prosecuted. The way in which you ask the question pretends to say that you think those pirates should be shot. But I don't think that's the point of your question, do I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u19	I believe that members of a VPD or private maritime guards on merchant ships should be able to do everything in their power to defend themselves, their own body and well, the ship and the crew to the maximum. If you can do that by a warning shot or by other preventive measures, such as the water cannons or loud sirens I read about, that's great. But if it has to be by firing targeted shots, then it has to be. We cannot fight a war or avert a pirate attack without running the risk of deadly victims as well. If you shoot aim, especially from a distance, to prevent such a pirate ship from getting close, then it could be that one of those bullets... 'Cause how focused can you shoot at the sea? Such a pirate ship goes at high speed. Then how can you be sure that no lethal shot is fired? If that means that there will be a whole procedure in which you have to rely on self-defense... I would very much like to see the position of such a private security guard more aligned with that of a member of such a VPD, for example, and that therefore should not be looked at in the same way as the civil storm. More attention should be paid to a kind of war-law situation, in which it is clear that you must also be able to kill an enemy. Not that I want to, if that's your question, but it shouldn't necessarily be possible. How I'm reading the article right now, it says that you shouldn't shoot aimed at causing fatal injury. That is not always to be avoided in a war situation, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u20	Mr Baudet just stopped by because he had the article with him. It says "focused on... deadly injury." That's exactly the situation I'm describing right now. That is not your intention either, because you say: if a pirate comes at me from a distance and I have to shoot as a member of that team and then it would go wrong and so on. That is a very different situation from the one that is very targeted, with the aim of killing someone, to resort to violence. I understand now that that is not your intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u21	Well, aimed at... A security team like that has basically only four security guards. Suppose something goes wrong, that such a pirate ship is getting very close, closer than that half mile.................................................................................................................... Maybe he wants to board that ship or he wants to get on that ship. Then I could imagine that a targeted shot would have to be fired. In a war situation or in a combat situation, that shot could hit the head. I understand you're allowed to shoot 9 mm. At some point, you could die, too. Well, I think it's targeted, which means it's deadly. But that can't be avoided, because you have to choose. If that pirate comes aboard, the whole crew might die. But it has to be possible. At least, I'd like that to be possible. I think the current article is ambivalent about that. I think it is important to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u22	I'm making a little effort to help anyway. It's like you're saying there's no difference between shooting someone on their head or right at their heart or trying to rule out the possibility that they can board another ship. Then you can shoot him on his knee or his ankle. There are all kinds of ways of not making someone die. Surely it is clear to you that it is about that and that you should not do your best to hit someone's head or touch someone's heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u23	I think it should be clear that a security guard on such a ship can do anything to take out the enemy, even if it means it is a deadly shot, because it is more important that the pirate be eliminated than the pirate gets on that ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u24	I'm gonna give it a little bit of a shot. Okay, you're talking about disarming. But you can also take someone out by shooting his kneecap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u26	Do you prefer to be shot in such a way that someone doesn't die, or do you say: I don't really care; they can shoot wherever they want, because the aim is to prevent them from being robbed or the ship being boarded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u27	Whether it matters to me personally, I don't think it's that important. It is important that the security guard or that member of the VPD be given every opportunity to act in such a war situation, in such a combat situation as he considers necessary. If at that time is the assessment of the trained security guard or the trained member of the VPD that he must shoot directly at the head and if he thinks that he can best protect himself, his own body and well, and the crew of the ship, then he must be allowed and able to do so and then we must give that man a ribbon when he comes home because he has protected Dutch interests and Dutch people. Then we shouldn't prosecute him. Then we shouldn't call it "emergency action." Of course, it has to be examined whether the shot was justified and whether the circumstances were such that it was necessary. Of course, we live in the rule of law and we do not send cowboys on those ships, but in a combat situation, a security guard or a military officer must be able to act as he sees fit. If a deadly shot is deemed necessary, then unfortunately it must be a deadly shot. We don't live in Mickey Mouse land.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u28	We are now going to listen to Mr Van der Staaij's contribution on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues Ten Broeke and Van Helvert raise an important issue with their legislative proposal. I would like to congratulate them and those who support them on this bill. I remember Mr Ten Broeke saying in the past: if it is all going to take too long, we will come up with an initiative ourselves. That's the royal route. I think it is very important that he has taken the floor, together with Mr Knops and Mr Van Helvert later. They have indeed done so and have come up with this bill. Mr. Chairman. It is an important issue, because ships flying the Dutch flag must be protected from piracy and there is still an attack on pirates and threats to it. These days you hear the occasional singing about whether it's all over again, but when it's less there, it gets more in another place. If Somalia gets a bit lighter again, Nigeria or other areas will be able to find themselves in a stronger position. It is therefore still very important to make a proper arrangement for this. It is also about major personal, emotional and economic consequences if there are gaps in that security. I noticed that prior to this treatment a letter came to us from a merchant preacher who wrote too often to have been called by a sailor's wife: he sailed through the Gulf of Aden today; my heart is in my throat. So it is also very practical for a lot of people in family circles and so on. With modern communication, you know exactly where someone is. They are always afraid of consequences if there is no adequate, adequate security. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, important steps have already been taken in the past to improve safety. Think of the VPDs, the security teams of DOD Marines. The significance of this for ship safety is great, but in practice we also hear that pushing and pulling everything that has been done and the understandable guarantees that have been made by the Defence Organisation is simply not enough. It is not flexible enough, it takes too long before the hiring is arranged, they are not always available, they are sometimes too large to be placed on ships and the costs are very high. In short, there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. That is why colleagues Ten Broeke and Knops proposed to allow private security under strict conditions. Let me begin with our conclusion that we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats think this proposal is nuanced and balanced and that we are in favour of it. Of course, it has helped that Mr Ten Broeke whispered to me in the corridors, in my familiar language, that the mustache is meeting Romans 13. Of course, that requires some explanation for many. This is a famous Bible chapter, Paul's letter to the Romans in which it is indeed said that the sword power lies with the government. In a bit more general jargon it is called in the bill that the monopoly of violence rests with the government. Fortunately, that is a very broad starting point, an important starting point. We should not accept too easily that there is an exception or a restriction. That was quite a long discussion about this. The De Wijkerslooth Committee issued a clear report in 2011 stating that the Dutch government also has a responsibility to ensure safety as much as possible. That was also a reason for my group not to say too quickly: well, do private security. Let's just step up the pressure and see if the DOD can do as much as possible. Only when you come to the conclusion that this is the case can you see how you can close holes that are still there under good guarantees, including with those private security guards. It is also clear that governments in the various regions in which pirates operate have the responsibility to act actively against piracy and that, where necessary, they can help the Netherlands. In addition to the principle that the government itself guarantees security, this must be ensured in situations where the government cannot do so. That too is part of the guarantee of safety. The fact that shipowners have to pay for security by the government alone shows that there is a special situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u30	I agree with everyone who says that you must protect the merchant navy, the Dutch ships, as much as possible from hijackers. A hijacking is something no one wants to experience. If Mr Van der Staaij is now saying that the monopoly of violence is guaranteed in Romans 13, it would be so fair to acknowledge that the essence of this bill is that this monopoly of violence is being removed from it, is essentially being self-destructed, and is being imposed on private security. Does Mr Van der Staaij recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u31	I think that is too definite. On the contrary, I noticed that the Council of State, which, of course, has given its opinion again, also devotes very nuanced wording to that, because you do not just say: okay, we take our hands off as a government and figure it all out. On the contrary, it lays down very strict safeguards, including those contained in this legislative proposal, which ensure that public responsibility remains at the heart of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u32	Conditions are set, and that's good. There must be proper monitoring of exactly what is happening; that is what I have read. But what does Mr van der Staaij think, for example, that such a vessel owner would like to hire a private security guard and apply for a licence, which could essentially be done in any country in the world, including Kenya, and that this could possibly be approved? Does that entirely reassure Mr Van der Staaij or does he also have any doubts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u33	I believe that this bill lays down a number of good rules. I have some questions about that myself. Of course, I am listening with great interest to all the other groups who also say: yes, but is there sufficient guarantee for this, is there sufficient guarantee for that? I now give the starting point, our sympathy, but we listen very carefully to everyone who has additional questions and comments on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u34	I hear the SGP clearly saying that the government's monopoly of violence is heavy and that the initiators have done their best to formulate reasons that would legitimise a deviation. But the Council of State has now, precisely in response to this proposal on those unless criteria are noted that they are debatable or that they are not competent to establish them in this way, which means that the initiators have removed those two criteria. So my question to you is: what extent or what content do you indicate when a derogation from the state's monopoly on violence is allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u35	I think it is simply important that, as has been said, strict conditions and requirements are laid down, either in the law we are discussing today or in the elaboration in the AMvB that is also attached to it. Of course, the whole licensing system is important, which is also at the heart of the regulation provided for in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u36	So, if I understand correctly, do you find the established 20% criteria and the 100 mile criteria sufficient arguments to be able to deviate from the state's monopoly on violence? Or do you think that these two should also be explicitly included in an AMvB? Or do you think that other criteria should apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u37	Again, I have a few more questions about supervision, powers and so on myself, but I do not feel that there is something missing here in the legislative proposal that should be included. But again, I listen with interest to the questions and comments of the other spokesmen. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that this bill clearly indicates the cases under which private security is possible. It's still the government that gives or refuses permission. The principle of 'VPDs, unless' guarantees this. However, we do have a number of questions about the practical operation. We understand the requirement for the consent to be given per transport, but can this be achieved in practice at highly changing destinations? When is there a single transport in the legal sense? It is defined as 'the transfer between two or more seaports'. It determines when there is still the same transport. Is an extra stop-over that has not been notified in advance also contrary to the permit? And if a ship is constantly going back and forth between two or more sea ports with an ever-changing cargo, is there only one permit required in legal terms? Mr. Chairman. A second point is supervision. Monitoring must be properly organised. How can it be ensured that this can actually work? Is a small, internationally operating team sufficient for proper supervision of the actual functioning of these private security guards? Will this monitoring actually be effective? How is it clear that all the reports have actually been made? Are the proposers saying that literally all actions of private security guards are recorded with a camera? How does that relate to the principle that someone does not have to cooperate in his own conviction? Mr President, the third point concerns powers. Security guards may use handcuffs for non-boarders under conditions. What about if there are hired personnel of the ship itself who would act against it in a certain way? In that case, are security guards not allowed to take any action, because it focuses strictly on non-going persons? Fourth point: liability. Both the master or the shipowner and the private security company may be fined if there is a breach of the rules. How should it be considered who should be primarily held liable or prosecuted? The one-after-last point is cost. Is it realistic to expect shipowners to continue to use the VPD services if they are more expensive than private security? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of these VPD units, how does the Minister view the possibility of the deployment of smaller VPD units, which has been discussed in the past? Mr President, those were the questions we wanted to ask the initiators and the Minister about this bill. We await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Six men in V-K, but I'm gonna try to get over that! In any case, I would like to thank the authors and congratulate them on the initiative law and on the comprehensive answer to the questions they have asked. I think that's well done. It is also about an important issue today, both economical shipping is important for our Dutch economy as well as human law. As a State, we have a responsibility for the safety of people on ships under the Dutch flag. I can well imagine their sense of vulnerability, as Mr Van Oosten said, when they are on the open sea and know that a boat with robbers can appear at any time. It's our job to protect people as best we can. By way of introduction, security on board is not, of course, the only weapon against piracy. For example, the international community has joined forces to reduce piracy off the coast of Somalia. This has been done by naval operations such as the EU mission Atalanta. It is also necessary to continue to pay attention to the situation on land. This is where, for example, local fishermen cannot compete with European vessels fishing off the coast. Climate change, corruption and conflicts further exacerbate the economic conditions in these countries. It is important that we fight these conditions as hard as piracy. However, piracy does exist and security on board is sometimes bitterly necessary. Nevertheless, GroenLinks does not lean towards protection as presented in this proposal. I have carefully read the report by the De Wijkerslooth Advisory Committee on the monopoly of violence and piracy. The committee says that armed self-protection can be allowed, 'but only if there is a duty of care of the government that cannot be sufficiently respected'. So "'can be honored"'. I've been looking into that. I think this bill goes on. It also allows armed private self-protection when the government can still fulfil this duty of care. For according to Article 4 (2) (a) and (b) of the Treaty, there was just a small debate on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is when the costs for the VPD teams are considered too high or when the ships have to travel too far. So those are arguments other than they can't be. That is not a question of not being able to live up to it, but rather of wanting something else. How do the proposers see that? GroenLinks is concerned that in the future it will be thought more and more quickly that the deployment of Defence is too expensive or that it is too far to go around, and that we will end up on a sliding scale and increasingly using private security. The applicants note that private security is already the starting point in many other countries. That's right, but as we've been able to read, also in the papers of the proposers, a lot of countries have gone against their will, because they're all afraid of flagging off. And what are we going to do about being played against each other like that? I also ask the proposers, because a subsequent competition can very well be fought at the expense of security conditions. At first, for example, cameras were mandatory. Everyone then says: in the Netherlands all this is too expensive and in other countries it does not have to be. That's how we keep going down in our security. I'd like a response from the petitioners. How do they intend to prevent a downward spiral?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u40	I don't understand the problem of a sliding scale at all. What is the problem if more and more countries are going to do this, if more and more countries are going to ensure that ships are properly protected and take good care of the boats flying their flag?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u41	I will say in a moment that GroenLinks also wants the ships to be well protected, but we want them to be under the power of the defence, because we believe that the monopoly of violence lies with the government. Only when the government can't take care of it can you suggest moving to private security. But the proposal before us says that you should also use private security when you think it is too expensive or when you have to go too far. That's not what we're here for. We want to ensure as much as possible that Defense will protect our Dutch merchant ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u42	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u43	Because we believe that the monopoly of violence should not be outsourced just in extreme need. That is why we support De Wijkerslooth's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u44	Proceed, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u45	The comparison with other countries that are constantly being made does not go far enough, because in some of these countries, Defence does not offer an alternative, as in Denmark, or does it require a much higher contribution, as in Belgium. I think it is good to note that most of the shipowners currently using the VPDs are very satisfied with this, also in terms of price. The protection offered in this way is all the more attractive because there is a large military organization behind the VPD's troops. I wonder how the risks of violence are assessed when a smaller team of security guards with less backup is faced with pirates. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I had hoped that I could gain some insight by looking at the experience in other countries, but in answering the question for a more analytical evaluation, only a study on legislation and regulation was referred to. For my group, however, it is important to know what has happened in those countries, what the possible consequences have been in terms of claims of victims, diplomatic clashes or faster use of force. We have not been given any insight in this. I hope that might still be possible. Let me also make some positive comments, because fair is fair: my group thinks it is a difficult balance. This has to do with the careful way in which the proposers have dealt with establishing that the use of violence must always meet the requirements of proportionality and that any incident of violence must be reported. But in the end GroenLinks continues to support the advice of the De Wijkerslooth Commission to offer protection to our merchant ships via Defense, unless it cannot be offered within a reasonable period of time. And then we get to the spot market. The ad hoc nature of the spot market means that for years we have not been able to protect these transports specifically. However, I do not have the idea here that everything has been tried, because in reply to Mr Voordewind's questions, Defence has said that it is prepared to experiment with possibilities for these specific ships, for example by placing longer periods of time on a ship for VPD teams. But from the spot market, no applications were submitted to see if this works. So I simply don't know. Finally, a final question, Mr President. Can the proposers explain why they have not opted for a state law? The Council of State points out that the establishment of an arrangement which applies only to the Netherlands, despite the fact that the matter is a matter for the Kingdom, is only possible as a temporary solution when the situation is really urgent. Although we have been discussing this issue for many years, it is not clear to me why the situation is now urgent and so urgent that it has not been chosen for a state law. Perhaps the authors could explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u46	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now turn to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The pirates are losing. We have seen this in the latest figures on the number of incidents involving piracy. That number has been at its lowest point for 22 years. That's good news in itself. Undoubtedly, this decline has to do with the responses that governments and shipowners have found to the phenomenon of piracy. The sailing routes are now better protected by naval ships, private security guards have also arrived on those ships and as the Netherlands we have the VPDs. And yes, internationally, in Europe, the use of private security on ships has grown. The presence of private security guards will also have a deterrent effect on potential pirates. However, Dutch ships are not allowed to use them. They are therefore disadvantaged in competition with ships flying other flags. That is precisely why the initiators, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Ten Broeke, are now submitting and examining this bill. I would like to thank Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Van Helvert, and of course their collaborators, for their enormous thinking to come to this proposal. It's not an easy task. The Chamber has been discussing this subject for as long as I am in the Chamber; that is eleven years. There has also been a cabinet that has tried to put things on paper, but both MPs have submitted the bill to this effect. They seek to ensure that the principle of a monopoly of violence prevails, but they also seek practical solutions in case the VPDs are not or are not employable quickly enough. Mr. Chairman. That monopoly of violence was also always an important consideration for the Christian Union and an important principle not to turn to private security. For us too, Romans 13 was the swordpower of the government, an important guiding principle. I am glad that this bill does not change that, because the principle of the VPDs and the state's monopoly on violence is also the starting point of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u48	Mr Voordewind says that the monopoly of violence remains with the government, unless the government is able to provide that protection quickly enough or not. But the proposal also states that the monopoly of violence no longer lies with the government if it is too expensive or if a ship has to detour too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u49	That's right. Mrs Buitenweg has also read this bill. It states, as the De Wijkerslooth Committee also pointed out, that at the moment when the government is unable to deliver, it may have to do with logistical problems and financial complications, or with a route through which too much must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u50	And aren't you afraid that it's gonna get you on some sort of gliding scale very quickly? Now it's too expensive and then we have to switch to private security. Where is the border for the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u51	I've got a lot to say about that. I have a five or six-page text in front of me making critical comments on the bill. So I'm not at my final balance. You will see that I will be tabling an important amendment, and possibly two other amendments, which may also satisfy your questions and doubts. So I will come to the questions that Mrs Buitenweg also has. Mr. Chairman. Part of it succeeded by putting pressure on the Defense Department. We see the teams are already getting smaller. It was first 25 men, then it was 18 people and now it has become 11. The Chamber has also constantly put pressure on the VPDs to make them more flexible, precisely because the Chamber wanted to hold on to the government's swordpower. Of course, that was accompanied by our own security, our own Navy ships. So great strokes have been made. That's why we might have needed the time to further optimize those VPDs. I would like to thank the defense apparatus for having looked very closely at this. We have even tabled a motion in one of the last debates on this subject in order to make sure that the defence sector has once again considered whether this could not be done more flexibly. Mr. Chairman. We then got the final conclusion from the cabinet that this was about the lower limit of what Defence could deliver and how quickly that could be done. I didn't get any signals from this cabinet that it would be different. I do have the following questions to the Minister of Justice/Minister of Defence. My first question is about the size of the VPDs. We have previously called for VPDs of 11 people. We're from VPDs of about 30 people. France has also had smaller teams than such a team of eleven. The private security guards work with smaller teams. That could even be teams of four people. What is the biggest obstacle for this cabinet not to work with smaller teams anyway? I'm gonna go over it again. I know that written questions were also asked during the written round, but I would ask the cabinet once again for an analysis of why this could not be reduced. I have seen the arguments in the written reply. It states that supervision is important, that the part of the exercise is important and that the view of any enemies is important from all angles. But then why does that eleven man on every corner of the ship have to look at the situation in person? Why, for example, could that not be camera surveillance as used in private security? Why can't the VPDs work with those floating armories like the private security guards can? So far, none of this is possible because no permits are granted, but I would like to ask what is still possible with these VPDs. Why can private security officers get on and off the ship quickly and the VPDs can't? Why is it not possible to use the same material as the private security forces work with? The package they use is smaller and more compact, making it easier to bring the material on board and no longer need to be diverted. Why can't you do that with the VPDs? Can the Ministry handle the licence applications quickly enough, including for the spot market? Mr. Chairman. I come to my questions to the proposers. The authors have now responded in writing to our objections. I shall, however, have a number of objections to come to this House again in order to obtain an additional clarification, and I will ask a few new questions. I told you, the swordpower was important to us. I have reread the report of the De Wijkerslooth Committee. That committee insists on this, but still says: it may be that the government cannot comply with this duty of care. The committee adds: then you will have to apply very strict rules and control properly. That is precisely where I am going to ask questions. The proposers respond to the last point of departure, namely that the monopoly of violence remains with the government. It's still "the VPD, unless." This means that at all times it is necessary to examine thoroughly whether the deployment of the VPDs is possible. I assume this will be answered in the affirmative by the proposers. They do not answer the question of whether in practice most private security officers are going to be employed. What is the assessment of the proposers? Is this going to be more rule than exception instead of "VPD, unless"? I'd like to get a reaction to that. On the issue of licensing, we read in Article 3 that the Minister should in principle grant the permit. Otherwise, the use of private security is prohibited. However, Article 3 (3) raises quite a few questions, as other countries can also issue permits for the use of private security for the Dutch merchants. They can even be non-EU Member States. Let me give you an example: Kenya could therefore issue such a permit. There is still a condition that it should be equivalent to the licence issued in the Netherlands. But how can we ever control those kinds of permits from other non-EU Member States? Do we not give that possibility too much out of our hands with this article, literally and figuratively? I come to the role of the captains and to the responsibility for the use of force. I understand that in the other Member States the responsibility for the use of the force monopoly sometimes rests with those captains. Here, the proposers have chosen to lay it down with the team leader of the security team. However, Article 9 (7) states that the master shall be consulted before the team leader makes use of force. Article 16 also states that the master may still receive an administrative fine. Can Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Van Helvert indicate how it is not possible to hold the captains responsible for the use of force, since Article 9 explicitly calls for consultations between the captain and the team leader? Perhaps the most important point for the Christian Union is supervision. De Wijkerslooth also indicated that regulation and supervision are crucial. The bill states that the captain and the team leader only report on acts of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u52	Before Mr Voordewind moves on to his main point, I also have the following question for him, also in relation to the questions and problems that the Christian Union initially saw. Now that the unless criteria have been set out to include them in the general measure of governance, can you comment on your idea of the direction and the criteria that should be used if the Minister were to implement them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u53	Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Belhaj have a point there, because in the end the proposers chose not to lay it down in the law but to leave it to the government, the minister. In fact, this is no longer the case for the Chamber, unless the Chamber decides to have a suspension procedure applied to the AMvBs. I have to say that I am considering that, to see if we should not organise a preliminary procedure. Because if the cabinet finds a small price difference enough to turn to private security, as you also point out, then that "unless" becomes a very small "unless." And if we don't have a back-up procedure, the Chamber is no longer about it, and then the law comes into force with the regulation that the minister prescribes. So I do have concerns about that. I'm still working on it. I have not yet tabled an amendment to that effect, but I am considering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u54	So then the Christian Union would take the initiative to give itself to the minister under what conditions. Is that near what the proposers did, so 20% and 100 miles? Or should we think of something else? This is the time to indicate the direction that should ultimately be included in the general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u55	You could choose two routes for that. You could take a shot right now. That's an appropriate term here, but you have to be careful with it. In this case, it's okay. Or you can say: we let the minister look at it first and we wait for the proposal; we do a front-end procedure with the AMvBs and then it always comes past the Chamber, which can see what she thinks. That's two routes. I am thinking now of the last route and not so much of the first route, because I think that the cabinet will then be called upon to look at the impact in all reasonable ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u56	I also have an amendment in mind. Especially the AMvBs are very important to us. Does the Christian Union also consider it important that we have seen the Minister's AMvB before adopting this bill, so that we can see where it is going in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u57	I'm gonna have to think about that. You can have a follow-up procedure incorporated into the law. You can tie it to the law. This means that the Minister's AMvB operation is still going to the Chamber. My preference now lies first in giving the cabinet room for action. Then we'll have a front, so he'll automatically come back to the Chamber to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u58	I am asking because it is a very sensitive issue. And when you look at the vocal relations, it's really close. I believe that such an AMvB can provide clarity for many groups in order to make the decision. I am considering submitting an amendment to that effect myself, and I hope that the Christian Union will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u59	I await the amendments. I have not yet seen any amendments from my fellow Members, so I am waiting for them. I come to the most important point of my contribution and, more specifically, an important condition for us to be positive about this. That's the surveillance. I told you, the captain and the team leader are reporting on the violence. Monitoring is therefore limited to reporting. So we are very dependent on the reliability of that reporting. The Christian Union therefore wants to make a proposal. We now have an amendment to the legislative office. If it's all right, it's already ready and it'll be filed one of these days. We propose that, at the time when a ship is going to sail into a risk area, camera surveillance should be activated. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office has more than just the reporting, namely camera surveillance. We're doing this to the F-16s, too. The moment the F-16s commit violence, video footage is made. These images are then also involved in the investigation by the Public Prosecutor's Office. I ask the authors how they look at such an amendment as I have just formulated. I'd like to wait for their response. In my view, this would be even more appropriate to the criteria that De Wijkerslooth has also laid down in order to get supervision in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u60	I do have the question as to what exactly is different or more than what the authors have already said. In the note following the report, I read that the permit requirements should include 'the obligation that all acts of private maritime security officers be recorded with video by means of a main camera'. Is that exactly the same and do you want it formulated separately in the law? Or is it another requirement you want to impose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u61	You have also seen that we have asked questions about camera surveillance and bodycams in the written round. It is also included in the explanatory memorandum, but we do not see it in the law itself at the moment. I do not know exactly what article it is in, but the law only refers to the reporting in terms of supervision. We are now making an amendment to include camera surveillance in the law itself in addition to reporting. My party feels that this is crucial when we have to vote on the law. I do not want to wait for further regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u62	Proceed with your speech, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u63	Then I come to the percentage rate of charge and the number of nautical miles the use of private security guards must meet. In the interrupting debate just now, I said that I was thinking about a possible pending procedure for an AMvB. Then I'll come to the captain and the team leader. The captain remains ultimately responsible for his ship. The use of violence is up to the team leader. Could that also lead to tension? After all, the captain is responsible for the individual security guards. I have already said that the coordination between the team leader and the captain must take place. The captain shall be responsible for the non-lethal regular protection measures before the team leader decides to use force. So there's a grey space in there. I would like the proposers to put that grey space a little more and a little more clearly than at the moment. The spot market is and was the largest market for merchant ships. This has now decreased slightly, but it is still an important market for merchant ships. This one couldn't be operated by the VPDs. Does this proposal make the use of private security and thus the spot market more the rule than the exception? Finally. The Christian Union attaches great importance to the opinion of the De Wijkerslooth committee. It has indicated that in principle the government uses the swordpower. Only in cases where the public authorities cannot meet the requirements to apply the force monopoly can this be carried out by private security guards, but only if it complies with strict regulation and supervision. That is why the Christian Union has asked questions about regulation and supervision and will table an amendment. We look forward to the reactions of the proposers. We are waiting for them to be able, in all circumstances, to allow the shipping companies to carry out each sailing route safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u64	Mr Voordewind is quite right to ask questions about the legislative proposal. Can he tell us what his verdict on the law is already? Is he inclined to support the bill or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u65	You have noticed that I have asked a number of serious questions, both to the cabinet and to the proposers. I also said that the amendment on camera surveillance will be crucial for us. So I await the reaction of the proposers. To what extent have they looked kindly at my requests? Depending on that, my group will take its decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u66	That is good to hear, because from this I point out that no agreement has been reached within the coalition and that this is therefore a free matter. I wish Mr Voordewind every success in his assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u68	Mr Voordewind, thank you so much. Mrs Van Toorenburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u69	Mr. Chairman. I was getting up a bit careful, because it's fun. I'm just saying a little bit of homely. There are sailors watching this debate. Meanwhile, they send all interesting things to us via messenger. It's nice that they're just really involved in what's going on here right now. That's fantastic. Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me express my thanks and appreciation for all the work done by the initiators, my colleagues Ten Broeke and Van Helvert, but certainly also by the current Secretary of State Knops. In his time as MP, he was one of the driving forces behind this bill. This is a good example of how one can do outside the coalition, because that was when the case could work together to bring about legislation that might be difficult to achieve in other constellations. Sometimes you just have to pick up the glove and not just call for something to happen. You should actually just sit around the table and watch yourself make such a law with blood, sweat and tears. Mr President, I should have known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u70	I couldn't help it, Mr President. Can Mrs Van Toorenburg explain why picking up that glove and blood, sweat and tears took so long? Why did the CDA not move until 2016? Why wasn't that in 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 or 2008? Because for so long, and perhaps even longer, this discussion has been taking place in this house and on the waters, on the transit routes. So could you give me a little more explanation? Why did the CDA get into the race so late?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u71	That's actually very simple. At some point, that need comes. Then the cabinet will work on a proposal. Then there are all consultations, because that's how it works. In the end, it was difficult to get out of one another. Then there was further talk in the sense of: who would support us in doing this? That was the CDA. Maybe you've been asked, too. I don't know. Maybe you didn't give it at home because you were working on other legislation. It's possible. Sometimes they're important things, too. But at any rate, this club has found each other to solve something that was not possible at the time to resolve within the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u72	Thank you for the answer. No, the PVV hasn't been asked. Otherwise, if the PVV had cooperated, this would also have been a bigger proposal. It would then also have been submitted and approved earlier. I am glad that the CDA has now made the turn, but that has taken far too long. I think that the CDA actually owes an apology to the merchant industry, to the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u73	They're actually just bizarre words: the twist made. I wouldn't know what spin we made. We've been thinking from the start about how we could handle this properly. I think the only one who has to make an apology is the PVV itself, because it comes with nothing at all. I think that is the only conclusion we can agree on. Mr President, I was only with my praises to the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u74	One more time, Mr. Chairman, because it's getting personal again. No, the PVV did come up with something, with a motion that the CDA did not support. You can say anything about how constructive the CDA was on this subject from 2016, but you cannot say that the CDA was constructive on this subject for 2016 from the start. Because you've frustrated everything all the time. Read the reports of your own spokesperson, the CDA spokesperson, in all the AO's. You have consistently refused to consider constructively how the merchant fleet can be better protected by the use of private security. Please don't say any falsehoods, because this house doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u75	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u76	Perhaps it would be a good idea to explain to the public how to legislate, namely by submitting a legislative proposal. You can ask a motion to get someone to do something, but with a motion, you never make a law. What the PVV has tried to do is shout out: someone has to make a law! But that's not gonna get you anywhere. A law is made by the government or by initiators. So that proposal is what we are discussing today. With that motion, we wouldn't have had any difference on our turbulent births. Again, that is why it is so good that these two parties have put forward a proposal. Before I really go into the substance of the proposal, it might be good to mention the fundamental aspects. Indeed, with the present initiative proposal, we are leaving the state's swordpower to some extent. We offer space for individuals to actually use violence in the stranger. It is right that a lot of parties are discussing this today, because that is quite a lot. I am also very pleased that questions have been asked about this. I don't have to do another round. They're relevant questions. I think the initiators should answer that. Then I'll get a little further in the text. This also shows why this proposal has gone through these turbulent births. I have already said that the cabinet initially wanted to come forward with a proposal, but this was insufficient to work out. This has not brought peace to these initiators and that is why they have started to do so. Perhaps it is right to express their confidence in the De Wijkerslooth report, which states that the State's monopoly on violence is not absolute. I quote: 'It allows for the granting of armed self-protection, but only if there is a duty of care by the government that cannot be sufficiently respected. Furthermore, when allowing forms of armed self-protection, the government must ensure adequate safeguards through regulation and supervision."' A little further, it says: "The government's monopoly of violence does not mean that only the government may apply violence, but that that government determines the conditions under which it is justified." That's what we're talking about today. So it's not like only the government likes things. Under certain circumstances, someone else may, but then the government matters when this happens, how far one can go and under what conditions this happens. That is what we are talking about today. Of course, safety is also provided in the current system. Those are those Vessel Protection Detachments. I'll call them the VPDs, although the longer word might be a lot easier. I'm sure they're working properly. My group considers it important to stress that they are and should remain the starting point. But of course there are cases where these VPDs cannot deliver the customization that is sometimes needed, for example if the team is too large or the application takes too long to be able to handle. In these cases, private maritime protection offers a solution. We are a seafaring nation and have great interests in trade overseas. In doing so, the safety of all people is at our heart. As an art historian I may be fascinated by paintings of seafield battles, by those skies, the water and the smoke you often see on them, but I do want them to belong to the past. It is therefore a good thing that we can actually provide this security if this legislative initiative is adopted. If we do not adopt this law, it does not mean that there are no private guards. Let me just say that. It means they won't be there under our terms. That's when they flag off. That is something we must always realize: do we want it to happen under our conditions, with our supervision and with our limitations, or do we say: other country, do you just figure it out? That's often very easy. Sometimes we find it difficult in the Chamber to settle something and we make very high demands, but we have to realise that if we make these very high demands, we are simply going to work elsewhere with much lower demands. The question then is what have we achieved together. I also think that this is a point that we should consider carefully. I would like to come back to the international playing field. We also read that these VPDs are sometimes not an option, because it is diplomatically difficult to get things this way. We would really like to see that explained by the government, because we do want to see whether you can take those hurdles at all times. If the diplomatic route is tricky at first, then you'd like to figure it out first. Can I ask the government to do that? Mr. Chairman. As I said, the initiators have opted for a system of 'VPD, unless', whereby the Minister of Defence checks whether a transport is eligible for private maritime security. We then make an assessment on a number of points, but we read that there are also a few exceptions, in which the Minister for Justice and Security has an important role to play. Can that be further specified? When does that happen and what is the crux of it? That's what I'd like to know. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions about costs have rightly been asked. I am also curious how that will be worked out, because only the idea of "'well, it's a bit expensive and so we don't do it"' doesn't feel right either. I would therefore like to ask the initiators and the government to say a little more about this. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the concrete conditions. These are certified companies. Much has been said about this in the written procedure, but there is still one point in that regard. It may be that companies are not certified by the Netherlands, but by America, for example, which can be a bit of a cowboy-like situation. Can the initiators explain why they seem to be getting over that relatively easily? Perhaps they should just as well state why they think it can be safe enough with the additional conditions that have been set. Mr. Chairman. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights does not impose an obligation on the Netherlands to conduct effective investigations when private security officers would kill someone on board their ship or another ship. The VPDs are state bodies operating under the ultimate responsibility of the Dutch State. Their exercise of violence falls within the scope of the European Court of Human Rights, which requires the Netherlands to fulfil its positive obligations when the right to life has been violated. But we have to realize, and then the lawyer in me speaks that this is different with private companies. They're not state organs. Even if they operate under a Dutch licence, that may not be enough to see their actions as public tasks in the sense of international case law: Al-Skeini, a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. We would like to have explicitly stated by the initiators and the government that with this proposal there is in fact a mandate for the Dutch Government to investigate if violence is used, because strictly speaking, the Netherlands is not obliged to do so on the basis of the treaties; that is the crazy thing, if we do not put this to the government. I would have liked to have made that clear. I realize I'm running a little late, but I'm gonna handle a few more dots. Security guards can take away pirates' freedom. They will then be handed over to the captain. That's clear, but then what? Should the ship be returned immediately, so that these pirates can be transferred to the International Criminal Court, or is the route simply being continued quietly? What happens then? Can the initiators explain a little more what it will be like if pirates are overpowered and imprisoned? What right will they be entitled to be subject to? Is my statement that they should always be handed over to the International Criminal Court? Mr. Chairman. We are currently seeing an increase in piracy in West Africa, off the coast of Nigeria. The difference with the piracy of the years before around Somalia is that the ships around West Africa are more often attacked by pirates in territorial waters. Can the initiators indicate how private maritime guards could provide protection if they are in territorial waters, while they are not allowed to carry out security tasks there? Do they have to watch with their hands on their backs while they're armed, how people might be slaughtered on their ship? I don't think that's quite the point. I'm going to say this for the moment, but that's what we're talking about. So I would really like to know what we can do about it. Could we perhaps agree on this with countries around us? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. It's premature, but I'm going to anticipate the outcome anyway, because otherwise I don't have the opportunity to say it anymore. If this proposal is adopted, my group is keenly hoping for it. May I also wish them a safe return along this road?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u77	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. There is another question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u78	I have a motion here, tabled some time ago by the Labour Party, SP, Christian Union, D66 and CDA. It calls for no further steps to enable armed private security forces to be deployed. Why did you change your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u79	We have not changed our position so much, but we know that there has been a huge discussion, which we wanted to wait and see so that we knew exactly how it could all be put to the fork in the end. We initially hesitated because we thought it would be easier for you to put this in the D.O.D.'s office. Actually, we felt that the DOD should always play that role. That made us cautious, but we saw the public debate and the investigations that were going on. That was the reason for signing this motion and saying: we are still a little hesitant. In the end, we felt the responsibility to solve it along this road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u80	I asked this question earlier to Mrs Van Toorenburg's predecessor, Mr Knops. He said, "Listen, Mr. Van Dijk, there's no money and it's squeaking and it's squatting at the Department of Defense, so we need to find other solutions now. There's money for the Defense Department by now, because there's a new cabinet. That argument therefore lapses. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u81	That's not the only argument. There are other arguments. It has become very clear that a ship sometimes has to be flexible because of carrying a cargo or sailing another route, so that it does not end up with Defence, for example because it has to be switched on in the short term. This proposal provides scope if security might be necessary in a different way. So it's more than just the cost of defense. And yes, let me say here that I am very pleased that this cabinet has made sure that there is a substantial extra money going to the Defense Department, because that is badly needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u82	I now give the floor to the spokesperson of the SP Group, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After many years of discussion, we are discussing today a proposal on private security on board Dutch merchant ships, a bill that is not from the government, but from the Chamber. Compliments to the proposers for their efforts. I suspect that we can also congratulate the Dutch shipowners on their lobby. They seem to have managed to achieve what they have been calling for for years: the deployment of private maritime guards on board Dutch merchant ships. The sensitive debate is now coming after the International Maritime Agency, IMO, from the International Chamber of Commerce last week, that the threat to international shipping by piracy has reached its lowest point in 22 years. In 2016 there were 191 pirate attacks; in 2017 there were 180; thus a decrease. The situation remains serious, but this figure and the declining trend deserve serious attention. We are going to take an important step with this proposal to put the monopoly on state violence at a distance, to self-destruct. The initiators have stated exhaustively that it is strict in its application and certainly does not set a precedent, but I have to question that. Would it not be much better to extend the course taken by the VPDs, the Vessel Protection Detachments, assuming that this problem is being mastered and that the Dutch State retains full control over the force monopoly? As far as we are concerned, we are still looking at smaller VPDs and more resources for adequate security. You're gonna get a lot of objections. The only objection that remains is the factor of time. Private security officers could be deployed more quickly on the spot market, but I wonder: should we put the monopoly of violence at risk? Is the market really that sacred? The 180 cases of piracy concern all shipowners in the world, not just Dutch or Western European shipowners. Indeed, the initiators give figures of renegade hijacking attempts, so the threat is greater than those 180 cases. The old remedies to sail in convoy and to cope with the risks of policy and consultation are rejected. The reason: international shipping, like the rest of the world economy, is driven by a very fast competition, is not patient for that. The spot market is the engine of globalised pressure on organized security: no time to wait for a VPD, market over swordpower. If Dutch shipowners would like to wait, then the initiators point out the legal situation that has grown in the other Western European countries: in neighbouring countries which are not by chance competitors in the fight for freight and transhipment they already have such legislation, so we must. The spot market has broken up the national states in Western Europe. In order to achieve a level playing field, we have to go. The initiators contributed to this debate, while D66, CDA and ChristenUnion were against this proposal with SP and PvdA, at the time still a majority. I have just quoted a motion of this kind to Mrs Van Toorenburg. The SP Group notes that the globalisation of international shipping companies undermines the control of the national state over acts of violence. Potential force on ships is being set at a distance. Government and Chamber have checked. The risks of undesired violence dynamics, wild west scenes, may be small, but they are there. That's very undesirable. I ask the proposers how they intend to prevent it. Mr. Chairman. Let there be no misunderstanding: if a ship is hijacked by pirates, that is terrible. Look at the 2013 film Captain Phillips and see what I mean. I've been to the Gulf of Aden myself, and I've seen the Navy working there. That's made a lot of impression on me. That was Operation Atalanta. But there was the royal road: protection of our merchant navy by our own navy. This law will allow the use of private security guards. It would be wrong if this would lead the government back, because the private sector would solve it. How do the proposers intend to prevent this? It is also a question of how much the law would still be needed if it were to be too tight a budget. That argument was still used by the CDA; I just mentioned it. By now we know that there will be more money for Defence, so also for VPDs; please comment. At the same time, I ask the authors whether they agree that the fight against piracy will not end until the causes are addressed. This is first and foremost the approach to hopelessness in Somalia, where young people, not rarely fishermen, look for new sources of income. Piracy can be lucrative. We have to fight that, but as long as there is no perspective for these people mopping with the crane remains open. Do the proposers recognize that? Mr. Chairman. I have some questions. The D.A. has a job to do, but the law leaves an open end. That is the important question of the captain's liability. The D.A. will consider whether the captain can be held liable for criminal charges, we read. I'd like an explanation, because what's going on? Will the shipowners remain completely out of play in the event of a violent incident? What about the private security? Mr Voordewind has already asked for this. Is there a tension between the captain and the security guards, if it really comes to violence? I'd like to get an explanation of that. Requirements may be attached to the licence necessary to provide security, e.g. main cameras. Is that conditional provision still in force? What about the AMvB, I ask the Minister, about violence and the type of weapons? Is it being submitted to the Chamber? It is quite crucial if we do not know what this general measure of governance looks like. Mr Voordewind also asked: what about the countries where you can apply for a permit? That's an important question. These could be all kinds of countries. Kenya has already been mentioned. Can the authors explain how strict that is going to be? If a country, for example Kenya, grants a licence, will that be checked or can a private security guard then get to work? Is such a permit granted once or for a year? If it is provided once, the question is whether the factor of time is really lucrative. Suppose as a ship owner on Friday you need private security. You'll still have to apply for a permit. I believe that this is going over the weekend, especially if the Minister still has to test it; please give us an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u84	Thank you, Mr Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Seafarers must also be able to rely on safe work. Mr Van der Staaij has already spoken about how this affects the home front. Piracy has made this almost impossible in certain parts of the world. It is therefore also good that the Netherlands has contributed to the fight against piracy by contributing to the mission to combat piracy, but also by providing military teams, the VPDs, which can be hired by shipping companies to secure their ships. We also contributed to stabilising the situation in Somalia by having programmes there, including humanitarian programmes. And that was not without success. Mr Van Dijk mentioned it. The figures may be historically low. That's good news. Thank you to everyone who contributed to that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the bill. It's too easy to say: it hasn't been that low in 22 years, so we don't have to do anything. I don't pick that line, but I do have some questions. For the PvdA Group, the starting point is that protecting citizens is a task of the government. That is why we want to see the need to allow private security guards where VPDs are available. Has it ever occurred that applications for VPDs have been rejected for any reason? That is the first question I would like to put to the cabinet. I would like to ask the initiators the following. The use of force in the Netherlands is under democratic control. Ministers are responsible and the limits of violence are enshrined in laws. The De Wijkerslooth Committee gave an opinion on this in specific cases. Mrs Buitenweg spoke about this. To the left or to the right, the present legislative proposal breaks that principle. How can the initiators ensure that supervision, consequences and possible prosecution abroad as a result of the violence used are adequately regulated in the present legislative proposal? How do we know for sure that no bunchas, also known as 'cowboys', will walk on ships with weapons? Mr. Chairman. How are we supposed to see, if we follow the bill, the deployment of armed private security on the west coast of Africa, where pirates enter territorial waters and do not allow armed private security or military forces in coastal states? Mrs Van Toorenburg has already asked for this. The PvdA Group also has that question. How can this bill relate to that practice? Mr. Chairman. I come to my last question. The initiators point out that, in particular or in fact, only for the mock market, the use of VPDs could fail due to flexibility. At the same time, I believe that the cost to shipowners for the use of VPDs has fallen in recent years. Is that right? If so, what is left of the need for private security? We would like to see some more figures and facts for that. Of course we ask the initiators, but we can also very well imagine that it is up to the cabinet to deliver those figures. Then the initiators can contextualize these figures. Mr. Chairman. These were the questions of the PvdA Group. I should like to thank the initiators, but certainly also the people who support them, for all the effort they have made. I am now working on an own initiative proposal. It has become clear to me that this is an enormous amount of work. As a result, my appreciation of everyone in trade union K from Parliament has only increased exponentially. Thanks to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u86	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u87	Mr. Chairman. Piracy is a serious problem. There have been many incidents in the past, including with Dutch ships. Mr. Chairman. The monopoly of violence lies with the government. Armed security can only be provided with the consent of and under the supervision of the government. This bill makes an exception to the government's monopoly of violence, in particular because there are no military personnel available for practical reasons or because the use of marines is becoming too expensive. My first question to the authors is how they will ensure that private security will only be applied exceptionally to ships. The main rule must remain government security. According to Article 9, the violence instruction shall be established by general administrative measure. However, we have not yet seen this AMvB. These rules of violence instruction do play a central role. Of course, what we shouldn't have are trigger-happy cowboys who do bloodbaths. Are the proposers still planning to send this AMvB, even if it is in concept, to the Chamber or leave it to the Minister of Justice and Security? One question I have to ask the Minister is whether he is prepared to draw up this AMvB. Can he forward a concept of the AMvB to the Chamber in advance? I just saw a debate, too. That's where the discussion lies: how far do you go? When I hear the PVV, you can shoot at random, but I don't think that's the intention of the initiators. I think we need to record that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u88	The PVV didn't argue for random shooting, so you need to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u89	Well, you went pretty far. Anyway... The Chamber must be involved in this. The AMvB in which this is arranged should be placed before the Chamber as far as the DENK Group is concerned. I am considering an amendment on this point. Before we can vote on this bill, we really need to know from the Ministry how it will fill in this AMvB. I'd like a response from the petitioners and from the minister. For DENK in particular, the decisive factor is that the crew members of ships are employees and that workers are entitled to safe working conditions. Being hijacked by armed pirates is, of course, the opposite of safe working conditions. What is also important is that most other countries allow private security. This makes Dutch ships particularly vulnerable. It is also true that it happens on Dutch ships, but secretly. We don't want any shady U.S. marshals or US cowboys. This is precisely where transparency and accountability are needed. It cannot be that we do not arrange anything in the Netherlands, that we do not send our marines and that our ships change flags and bring cowboys to arrange their security. That is precisely why we believe that we should take care of it ourselves here in this Chamber. The DENK Group still has some doubts about Article 3 of this bill. It states that the Netherlands must also accept foreign permits, i.e. apparently also Bulgarian or Romanian licences or permits from other countries with which the Netherlands has signed a treaty. Could that be a permit from countries like Somalia or Nigeria? DENK wants only bona fide companies to be active on Dutch ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u90	Is Mr Öztürk aware of the fact that cowboys have hardly ever been seen on ships, with which the comparison thus determines, let's say, is unimaginative and not really appealing? Can't we look for a better metaphor to indicate these dangers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u91	I challenge Mr Baudet to come up with a metaphor. I hope you will not ask for a roll-call vote on this if we vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u92	Hannen Solo?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u93	I leave that to Mr Baudet. I am concerned that the citizen in the Netherlands knows that by means of this we mean that anyone who is seen there, who could possibly be hostile, is not being accidentally shot at. I would like to hear how the petitioner is going to ensure this. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State is going to check foreign permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u94	Mr. Chairman. I had to think about the metaphor of the nails on low tide, but that's another image. Then there's the suggestion that you can just get a permit in a country and then you can start shooting a little random, so to speak. It is also clear in paragraph 3 that a treaty must be concluded with those countries and that a level of professionalism equivalent to that pursued by the national licence must also be guaranteed. Therefore, materially, important requirements must be met by the other countries that grant licences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u95	What are we giving away? We give away our monopoly of violence. That's a tough thing to do. Why do you have a government? The government is there to guarantee the safety of its citizens. The government is the only one with the monopoly of violence. The moment you give that away, whoever you signed a treaty with, mistakes can be made. The auditors can look in a different way than the controllers here. Because that monopoly of violence is so important, I think you have to make very tough demands and let our own people watch every time we get a permit. You can't just say to another country: we have a treaty with it, we just give it away. I don't think that's the point. Finally, Mr President. I hope that the reply of the proposers is satisfactory. If that is the case, I will advise my group to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u96	Thank you, Mr. Öztürk. Mrs Belhaj, D66, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u97	Mr. Chairman. If you're on the speaker list a little further, people are always watching: is she going to ask for something new or do something surprising? I'm going to disappoint you: it won't be. I will, in fact, first of all, as it should be, congratulate the authors of this initiative proposal on the willingness to take it on board and, after years of deadlock, to try to put forward an initiative legislative proposal on this difficult issue. In particular, Mr Van Helvert's enthusiasm almost surpasses that of Mr Knops, and I say this with caution, given the glitter. Mr. Chairman. It is then finally time for us to talk about this in concrete terms. A year and a half ago it also came close that there might have been an opportunity to get out of the impasse. You can say that there are actually two groups that place an important emphasis on this. On the one hand, they are people who say that the state's monopoly of violence is something serious and that there must be reasonable reasons for it if you decide to renounce it. And then you'll come to the group of shipping companies, of course, but also the captain's association and all the other organizations that say: yes, but we just experience a lot of problems in the practice of our work in order to be able to do it with a good and safe feeling. Between these two elements, facts are very important with regard to D66, namely: how often exactly does it happen, how often has the Ministry of Defence had to reject a request, where does this greater need suddenly come from to be present on a ship with a smaller team? There are many exogenous factors, such as the crisis, which have led to a huge need in the maritime sector in that spot market. I always say that tomorrow 1,000 tables will be offered in Portugal, who wants to go oh who wants to go and who wants to go to South Africa, for example? If you know that it is a crisis and the margins are small, then you also know that many shipping companies will take everything to keep them up, that they can also continue to provide their employees with as much work as possible and that they can also continue to make some profit. But these exogenous factors, or the fact that there was a crisis, are very important to us. If you decide to remove the swordpower from the government, part of it, I think that is a bit of a discussion of a little bit pregnant, but well, then you have to talk about reasons that are consistently present. So that should not be: tomorrow is bad weather and that is why we are here in the Chamber deciding to change the law. That'd be something! I can imagine that some political parties would like to do so, but there is also a lot of wisdom that you should not want to do so. This simply has to do with the fact that you can get precedent work. So we approach it from DOD, from shipping and my colleague from JenV: okay, we're going to solve this problem, but what are the consequences for other parts? They're very relevant to D66. That's why I wanted to give you the case studies why this is so difficult. Sometimes the picture arises that politicians do not want to solve it as quickly as possible. "'We have a problem, we want to make our money, we find it difficult, come on politics!"' I am very much in favour of this, unless it concerns important principles that we have laid down in the law. That's what we're discussing today. The initiators have actually tried to include with two very important practical proposals an unless criterion with which you as a government may deviate. Of this, I would point out that I see a very important problem. A principle is not just a principle. If you want to address a particular problem, such as the fight against piracy, then practical solutions are not always sufficient. That has also proved to be the case, because the Council of State has indicated that it is not really wise to include the 20% and 100 mile criteria in this initiative law, but rather to leave them to the Minister's assessment. And I get that, because they can be broader considerations as to what criteria you apply. But if people ask me if I am willing to let go of that principle so that there is a solution to the problem, and the initiators let go of those solutions to that problem, then I do have a problem. For then I say: we are going to let go of the sword power in the government a little, because it is necessary; with these two reasons we are going to do so. The Council of State says that's not wise. You're gonna get it out. Then in fact there remains only open "'unless''. I see the gentlemen shaking: no, Mrs Belhaj is not right. That is always a good sign, because that means that the gentlemen are going to explain to me what assurance they have that the Minister, who is sitting there very nicely in the corner, will actually do justice to the move of that 20% and that 100 miles. I think that is going to be rather complicated, because one of the reasons the Council of State has said 'be careful with the criterion of 100 miles' is that the situation can change. Then I already know what is going to happen, namely that the sector is knocking on our door again and saying: Mrs Belhaj, I find it very annoying; that law has been passed, not because of you, but, please note, we would like a 300-mile criterion. Well, that's kind of complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u98	I understand Mrs Belhaj's questions, but then perhaps it would also be a consideration to have the AMvB, when it comes to miles and costs, come to the Chamber via a veil. Then you can talk about it after the specialists have done some thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u99	That's a good proposal. My final conclusion will soon be minimal that there must be a proper law and that the Chamber deliberately agrees with something. So it must not be the case that the Minister decides differently, after all, to take the 60% more expensive criteria, because then the people who want this so badly do not have what they want. So I agree with you that if you choose to do this, you have to give that care to the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u100	That is difficult, because the Council of State has just said: you would need extra thinking power to work that out; let the Minister work that out. The Minister can do that through an AMvB. Then you could still get the one with a front back here in the room. Then we can still talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u101	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u102	Then we could agree to the law, and then we would say through a veil: but we will get the effect back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u103	That's a conclusion you're drawing and I understand. That's exactly why I asked that question. You have decided to join the proposal as it stands. Knowing you and knowing your party, I thought it would be wise to do exactly what you are proposing. So we're in agreement. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an important point, including for me as a defence spokesperson. For a while I was lucky to be both the shipping spokesperson and the Defence spokesperson, so I also talked a lot with all kinds of associations of interests: the shipping company, the captain's association, who made an enormous impression on me. I have tried to raise the issue within D66. We have this principle, but we also have this problem. Could we have another discussion about whether there's no other way? The conclusion was then "'that doesn't seem wise to us"' because at that time there was a lot of discussion with the Ministry of Defence. That's very important. Suppose the Ministry of Defense as the government body that has the violence monopoly, says it can only do the work with eleven people. And suppose the initiators and other people in the Chamber then say that you should be able to let it go, that you should be able to transfer the violence monopoly to private security guards and that it may be five in one go. Somewhere with all the logic I've been doing, I think this is what I've been doing. Okay, the government sets high standards, then you transfer that responsibility to the private sector, and then you suddenly say, "Yes, but you can do it with five." I think it's incredibly important that that be cleared up, otherwise it's a really weird one. Then people here can say that they consider the principle of the monopoly of violence to be so important to the government, but that's really sorry I'm saying nothing worth it. It simply cannot be explained that you then accept at once that it would be sufficient with a certification. That's the irritation of me as Defense Spokesman. That is also the dilemma of the proposers; I also know that it is not there. That is why I ask the Minister once again: how can private security officers say that they can do work with five people and that they say that they can only do it with eleven people? Because if the number of 11 becomes half, then we have more offer. Then maybe you don't even have to talk about even more money to that branch of sport and then it's more flexible. Then you would also have a solution for those smaller ships, as one of the arguments is that they do not have enough space. I also have to nuance that part in that respect that the international maritime report from 1 January to 31 December 2017 provides a good overview of how often it actually happens in different countries. You can compare it and see if it's so much better in Denmark. Well, it's not that much better in Denmark since it was implemented in 2013. If you drop that off by 2017, the number of actual incidents has not diminished. But important is that you also see which ships are at risk of being attacked by pirates. Then you see that it's very much about the bulk. Well, it doesn't seem to me that there would be no space on those large ships, but perhaps from my Rotterdam perspective I am imagining too much about exactly what bulk means. But I think it's important to be aware of that. I need the question "'why do you think this should happen now?"' Not to address you, because that would only be undermining. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My group has had an extensive discussion on this, including with my colleague Sienot, who is the spokesman for shipping, and my colleague Maarten Groothuizen, D66 spokesperson for justice. Despite the good commitment, we have finally come to the conclusion that the proposal now before us does not provide sufficient guarantees to ensure that the swordpower, which now lies with the government, is properly transferred. We think it is incredibly important that this sword power should be with the government and that it should be possible to test it at any time. We do not feel that this is a matter of urgency and that the scale on which it is concerned should not be served by Defence. And third, Mr President, I can see that I have lost it for a moment because I see that one of my colleagues wants to ask a question. So he'll be here later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u104	I think that this is a very worthy debate because we are clearly weighing all the pros and cons on a very basic point. But I would like to ask D66 the following. If we realise that ships, as I said in my own term, will flag off when the Netherlands does not manage properly and that it is going to happen in another country under conditions that we do not really want, are we not much worse off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u105	It is typical of the CDA to think in terms of "bad" and "good." I am more of: what is factual and legal right. I think that is a bit of a misconception, because that is what you are actually saying: because the consequences could be annoying, you should not oppose this proposal. I think you're too smart not to see that that's really a fallacy and that it's more important to judge the proposal as it is now. I can think of hundreds of other reasons. Other people sometimes say: but in other countries they do it too! Yes, there are other countries where they have the death penalty, where you are obliged to carry a burqa and so I can continue. Nor do I find any of these legitimate reasons. So my answer to your question is: I do not have to answer that question. The question I have to answer is whether the proposal before us will allow the monopoly of violence to be transferred to private security. It is a choice of people, not a duty, to flag a ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u106	Can I just say that I think it's a bit of a catty answer? I'm just trying to be very generous with D66. I think my question was quite right after all. I understand the concerns that are very legitimate. So that's not what I'm talking about. But the problem is that the same ship with the same crew will soon just sail under another flag and then perhaps have security guards on board of which D66 and we think: you should not do so. We must therefore ensure that it is rigged as well as possible and that it is covered with as many guarantees as possible. But we must also be realistic: if we do not do it and it is spent on another country, then it happens under much less good conditions. And it's about international shipping. So it's not like if something mini-like happens in the Netherlands, I'm looking at another country how they do it there. No, we're talking about international waters and the international world. There it is so fluid, just to use a liquid temp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u107	You can see that. And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u108	Is it perhaps wise to regulate it properly in the Dutch way and not to give it away, which makes it unsafe and associated with much less guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u109	Then I'm really gonna do it on my most friendly level; I thought I was kind of friendly, by the way. The point is that you pretend it is not a free choice of shipping to be present on a ship with flags and possibly with lower quality private security. I think it's an unfair comparison because it's a choice. It's not like, if you don't want this proposal, you agree that ships are forced to flag their ship and do business with shady private guards. I'm not gonna make that relationship, which you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u110	Mrs Van Toorenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u111	Very briefly. I am afraid it will happen because we are in a very complicated international market. We know that it is already very complicated in the port of Rotterdam and in the ports around us to get a decent shipping service. So I'm afraid it's gonna happen. It's a free choice, but it wasn't born out of luxury. There's a need sometimes. That is why I would very much like this proposal to be adopted, because it will then be done in a careful manner. 'Cause I can see it happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u112	Let me try again. I feel like we're generally very close together. We closed the last interruption with the front suspension procedure. Mrs Belhaj said: I do not think there is any difference of opinion between Mr Voordewind and myself. That led me to think: but is the outcome different? We now tend to vote in favour if we come out with the proposers on the amendments. But I hear you now saying that you tend to vote against it, when we might want to apply the same amendments and the same veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u113	The initiators themselves have attached two criteria to this initiative proposal, which I find debatable. 'Cause what do you relate that 20% cost to? What do you relate that 100 miles to? Anyway, the initiators have chosen this. So even though I am against it and the D66 group is against it, I think it is important that it be properly regulated. You say you're ahead. Well, Mr Voordewind, if you are in favour, please be careful to include the criteria that you consider important. That is not my job, because I do not think that these criteria are sufficient in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u114	I think we share the concern that things aren't gonna get out of hand. The number of nautical miles, the level of costs: is it not going to be so low that private security is preferably thought of quickly? We share that concern, but we would then be able to get that back to the Chamber in an amendment, by means of a front-end procedure. In our opinion, that is a bit loose, because then we can do it in two parts. You basically say that you should be able to employ private security guards where the government can't, but about the exact conditions under which that can go, a second stroke goes. That is what the Minister is about, and that point will come back to the Chamber. Would you support that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u115	I stand for every route that takes more care. I welcome the fact that Members of Parliament who are here and certain criteria are important to ensure that they are included. For that, you have seen my support, collectively, despite the fact that I am not in favour of these two criteria. We may be able to talk about it later, because it will of course be a bit of a strange debate if it becomes my responsibility at once to ensure that the initiative legislative proposal gets through in a good way. I'm quite a bit of integrity, but here it does end a bit with the advice on how to do it. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I am very sorry because the initiators really did their best. The lobby has also been extremely active. I have spoken to several people and I think that people have tried to look at the question of whether this is a solution to the problem that is being experienced. As far as I am concerned, there is still one important solution, and that solution lies with the Ministry of Defence, which has a duty of care. By using fewer VPDs, or by agreeing things in treaties with those countries, as can be done for private security, the Ministry can ensure that they are given the security they are entitled to and that the captains do not have to worry that they are ultimately responsible, which in my view is not adequately regulated in this proposal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u116	Is this a very important point of principle for D66? It's about the government's monopoly of violence. You're in the coalition. If this is a serious point of principle, why not stop it from being part of the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u117	So you argue that I use my power in that back room to deprive the Chamber of such an important debate and the freedom to make its own decision? That's a very strange call from DENK. I'll remember him, because DENK calls for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u118	That's all you guys do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u119	No, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u120	... to mostly tap things off. I think it is good that there is no coalition agreement on this because you see how different opinions are in this Chamber. I think that is the way it should be, despite the fact that there will be a majority for something I do not want, because I respect democracy and therefore respect you in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u121	What a story. That's all you guys do! I keep hearing your colleagues from D66 saying 'I would have liked to vote against, but we have a coalition agreement' and 'I would have liked to vote in favour, but we have a coalition agreement'. These things are only discussed in the back rooms. You don't do anything else, so don't tell me the democratic story here! If it is a point of principle for D66, why do you not commit this point in the coalition negotiations? Or are you saying we're gonna let it go; we're gonna keep a story that we're against, but it's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u122	Finally, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u123	I'm so sorry about that. Then there's actually something so positive... It applies to a lot of proposals. I think it is obvious with this coalition that there is no point in tying things up. Anyway, you're looking at this trial a little more negatively. I am a little more positive about this and I think it is very healthy and very democratic not to stop things on certain subjects, but to leave it to the wisdom of the Members of Parliament whether or not proposals are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u124	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u125	We shall continue with our sitting and the floor is now for Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to congratulate the initiators of this bill. It's an ornament of simplicity. It's very nicely structured. The law provides for a solution to a real problem. The explanatory memorandum gives careful explanation of various articles. I can only say: I think it is an excellent proposal; let us vote for it as a Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u127	Well, that was 20 seconds, but there is one more question. Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u128	This is very brief, so I will give Mr Baudet a little more room to explain. What is your party's position on the monopoly of violence, a key issue in this debate? Do you think that's basically part of the government? Or do you say: well, fine, we can do this as these proposers suggest and perhaps it can even be extended? There are also people who say that you need to place the security of all kinds of things much more in private hands. Where is your party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u129	I think it's perfectly embedded in this bill. Of course, the starting point is that the monopoly of violence lies with the State. This also follows very clearly from the first articles, which state that in principle you should not do all kinds of things yourself, unless the Minister gives explicit permission to do so. If you can embed private parties sufficiently in a legal framework, and I think that is enough done here, then there is no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u130	Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u131	It is also international...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u132	No, Mr. Van Dijk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u133	Strict! Much stricter than Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u134	Yes, I'm still strict, so Mr. Van Dijk is going to speak now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u135	I do want to know where your party stands. Do I understand why you are saying that this can be done, but it must remain an exception that the swordpower or the monopoly of violence is abandoned? Or do you say we can do that in more ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u136	One doesn't rule out the other, of course. Something can happen in more ways and at the same time be an exception to a general rule. I am not aware of any other situations in which the Dutch State has a shortage of personnel which would require us to use private parties. But if it were, I'd be open to thinking about it. I can also imagine it playing on trains or maybe on planes. Yeah, it might be a good idea to talk about that, too. We might be able to talk to the initiators to maybe expand this on some points. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u137	Mr. Van Dijk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u138	That's exactly what I wanted to know, because you're a new party, so many people are curious about your views. But now you are saying that acts of violence, which we have so far held with the government, can actually be carried out by private individuals in more areas. I think that's a very worrying border you're crossing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u139	Why? What do you find so worrying about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u140	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u141	Because we have historically ruled that the monopoly on the use of force belongs to the government. From a party that has Democracy in its name, I am particularly curious whether it shares this with me. It is precisely such an important thing as violence that democracy must be able to control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u142	Yes, but control is guaranteed, in all kinds of ways. First, we are dealing with special companies or organisations which have been specifically authorized to do so. There is also a feedback link. It goes directly to the state's attorney's office and the captain and so on. So I have the impression it's well embedded. On the one hand, of course, the monopoly of violence lies with the Dutch State, but private parties can be involved in its implementation. By the way, this is a practice that was already used in old Carthage. Hamilcar, for example, about which Flaubert wrote the book Salammbo, partly uses mercenaries. It is, in principle, a long-standing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u143	I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u144	Usually you look so angry, I always have to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u145	I can see it, too; the severity is spiking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u146	Mrs. Belhaj, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u147	I was talking about Mr Van Dijk. You can do this on your own; good luck! I had another question. I understand that Forum for Democracy is for this. What does the Forum for Democracy think of good criteria that should be given at least and on which basis you may deviate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u148	Deviating from what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u149	The whole principle of the initiative law is that you may deviate from the violence monopoly and therefore use private security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u150	Ah, okay. I think the principles mentioned here are very good. It begins with Article 3, namely that it is prohibited to do it without a licence. So it starts with the Minister. Then there are guidelines for the conditions under which violence can be used and for the limits attached to it. There is also a comment on its purpose. It must not be aimed at taking away life. Of course, there is room for collateral damage. This will then be further developed in a partly secret, partly non-secret, directive for its application, which has yet to be drawn up. I honestly do not see the problem at all. Do you see that, petitioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u151	It may seem like I'm speaking another language, but I'm not Ewok or anything like that, in the context of the reference to Han Solo. I'm trying to ask you what you think of that 20%. If it is 20% too expensive or there are no VPDs within 100 miles, you can use private security. Under what conditions do you consider it legitimate to step down and use private security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u152	I follow the assessment made by the initiators at the moment. I assume that this is a real assessment of the existing problems and needs. If there is reason to doubt that or to use it more broadly, then we must do so. I think it's important that we protect our captains and our ships. If that doesn't go through the existing defence facilities, then we need to expand it. This law provides for that. So that seems to me to be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u153	Here's the problem. It is not only the case that current or present legislation provides for a solution for private security if the government cannot do so. The point is that this bill also allows you to proceed to private security if that is significantly cheaper. The minister still has to decide how much cheaper it may be... or because you will have to sail less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u154	That's good, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u155	Those are considerations other than the fact that the government can't do it. I think that's what Mrs Belhaj is trying to understand. What is the idea according to Forum for Democracy? Can you only deviate from the government's monopoly of violence when the government can't do it? Or do you agree with the cost aspect? If a private security guard can do it cheaper, can he do it? Where is the border for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u156	If it's cheaper and as good by a private security guard, I think it's fine if a private security guard takes care of it. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u157	Would that be a national idea, too? Can we, for example, equip private security guards with weapons at football matches if that's cheaper? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u158	I think that is an interesting continuation of this thought experiment, although of course that is not what we are talking about. It seems to me that a great deal is already happening in the field of private security. I have been able to get to know this myself in recent times, although of course that is totally unrelated to the subject that is being discussed here. What you do hear and notice is that there is a great deal of discontent about the scope these private organizations have for security agencies and for objects that need to be secured. We might as well talk about whether we should broaden that, especially since there are systematic cuts in the defence and police sector. Your party is responsible for that. We are very sorry that this is happening. We're in favour of more agents and more room for defence. But as this situation becomes more acute, and it is urgent, perhaps we should leave room for intermediate parties. I think it's an interesting idea. I would like to take up the implicit invitation to discuss this further at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u159	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u160	I just wanted to inform Mr Baudet that GroenLinks has always been in favour of more money for the police and has not called for cuts in defence. That might be interesting for Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u161	I don't care about the party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u162	I thank Mr Baudet for his contribution. We have arrived at the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank all Members for their contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-32.u163	A continuation of this debate will take place at a date and time to be specified.
