ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the debate on Dutch support for the armed opposition in Syria. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. From 2015 to 2018, the Netherlands provided more than 25 million support to the Syrian rebels. On 7 March the current Minister became Minister and on 7 April the programme was discontinued. The CDA Group believes that he has made the right decision, but we do have questions about what exactly happened during this programme. Why did the program stop? Why wasn't it reported to the Chamber until months later? We've been criticizing this program for years. In 2015, we voted against its launch. In 2013 we already asked for international advice on possible support for rebels in Syria. It's a good thing the Minister says he's taking the coverage seriously. The case is being thoroughly investigated in cooperation with Defence and Justice and Security. In part, the Chamber has been informed confidentially. Is the investigation he did after the allegations at Nieuwsuur and in Trouw, fully completed? What matters are being investigated and when are we going to get the outcome? At the request of the Chamber, we received a letter containing a summary of the international legal opinions. We're assuming that's a faithful summary. In fact, we would like to ask the Minister whether the limits of international law have been maintained during this programme. What does the Minister think of the criticism of the international consultant that the system did not work as Mr Davids had planned? The Minister says that the opinion of the international advisor on non-lethal support was well known and refers to the opinion of 2013. That opinion also included a paragraph on NLA. Does the Minister believe that the government has remained within that advice with the programme? How does the Minister now assess that no external international advice has been requested on this programme at that time? News flash reports the Sultan Murad Brigade has received support. The commander confirms that they received support from mid-2016 onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u3	On the previous point, the international legal advice. The Minister refused to seek advice from the external international advisor. We heard him. He says that the support is at odds and, in all likelihood, is contrary to international law. The same goes for Carla del Ponte of the United Nations. At least she was a member of the United Nations and she has been investigating these war crimes. Does the CDA think that this advice should still be requested so that we can know whether this has been in breach of international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u4	I would like to hear from the government on which it bases whether it has remained within the mandate or not. In the answer of the international consultant, I was also greatly surprised at one other matter, namely that he indicated that when his contract was extended in March 2015 that is exactly one month before this occurs, but the contract extension was certain that his possibility to issue spontaneous advice has been withdrawn. I haven't been able to find that in the chambers. Is that wise now, I wonder from the Chamber, because I prefer to have an opinion in advance rather than afterwards? Since many things are confidential in their nature, which groups have you supported and where has what gone? I ask the Minister himself to tell me and convince me that he has acted within international law or not. Where that didn't happen, I'm gonna ask him to tell me where it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u5	With Mr Omtzigt's support, we asked the Minister to make the internal legal opinions public. The Minister refused. On the second point, I share Mr Omtzigt's request, so I take it for granted that the mandate of the international advisor should indeed be adjusted by the Minister so that he can provide unsolicited advice, if that has changed. But the final point is about content. The international counsellor said in the round table: "We are therefore talking here not about a hypothetical possibility, but about a real tension, a possible conflict with the law created by this support." Does Mr Omtzigt think that we should get to the bottom of the question whether international law has indeed been violated, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u6	I want a clear answer to that. Professor Nollkaemper, who was not an international advisor, but of course has that function, speaks about this tension, but he also said that he could not say exactly whether it had happened or not because he did not have the entire complex of facts. That's actually what he said there. The government is aware of the whole complex of facts, the framework outlined by Mr Nollkaemper and the framework of the internal legal opinions, which only said'stay with non-military goods, civil goods'. The government has to convince me that she stayed in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Sultan Murad Brigade received support from mid 2016. At least that's what they say. However, when the group made a video on its own YouTube channel in February 2016, he showed how he bombed the Kurdish residential area in Aleppo. In May 2016, Amnesty says: they have done so. A little later, the Del Ponte committee, to which my colleague from the SP just referred, said the same thing. Both concluded that these were war crimes. The government says there are public sources that they didn't do it. I would like to know what public sources say they didn't do it and whether they are more credible than their own YouTube movies in which they show those bombings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u9	I shall also go back to the issue of the international legal adviser. In answering more than 300 written questions from the Chamber, the cabinet says: we were already aware of the views of the international advisor. How does Mr Omtzigt point that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u10	I'm telling you that if they read that advice correctly in 2013. I can see what that looked like again. "I note that, strictly speaking, the principle of non-intervention, which is what he relies on, prohibits not only arms supplies but also other forms of aid." That is why I would like to know from the government whether this sentence means that it was in line with international law or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u11	But with that you have some answer to the question of what the position of the external international advisor is, I would at least think. I know Mr Omtzigt as a critical Member of Parliament, as someone who really wants to get the bottom of the stone, but I have been tasting from the first sentence he says, in his tone, a retreating and less critical attitude. He asks questions to which the answer is already known, the answer of which has already been described by the Minister in dozens of pages. I'd still like to see that critical Mr. Omtzigt, who really puts the Minister on fire. I miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u12	Thank you for the compliments that I have asked Parliament seven times about this. I haven't seen other colleagues do that. I have done so because I think this is an important programme, not because it is a large programme; 25 million is not the largest programme in the entire national budget, but because you are doing something in international law and in international relations that is very important. That is why I have spent the last six months trying to get the bottom of my head, and that is why I am asking all the questions in a debate. I think it is a debate to ask questions to the government and to control it, rather than starting with a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u13	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u14	No, I'm not jumping to any conclusions yet. Then Mr Omtzigt would have to listen to my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u15	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u16	I think it is also important that we do not repeat this when we have answers to the questions. Because the questions have already been asked and the answers are already in. It is therefore a question of how you indicate those answers. I do see a critical attitude. I've seen a critical attitude lately. And I can see now that you've already started withdrawing the cunt you've been trying to lay for the past six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u17	Well, I keep asking the same questions, with the quotes of the international advisor, to find out whether this has been in conflict with anything or not. That seems to me to be about the essence of what's going on here. Mr. Chairman. In the 2015 letter, three conditions were laid down for the granting of aid. The Dutch government would have its own fatting procedure, and there were decisive criteria. One: there should be no operational cooperation with extremist groups. Two: they should strive for an inclusive political solution. And three: groups had to be committed to the observance of humanitarian war law. Can the government tell me whether this has been checked by all 22 groups and whether they met these issues at the start of the aid, and how exactly the monitoring has been put together, especially in the south? Mr. Chairman. This is a little more difficult for us to control, because part of it is state secret. That is why I ask the government: what is the best way for the House of Representatives to control this difficult question, namely: did the right groups receive the support? I get why you didn't say, "We gave that to that person at the time." But as a chamber, we have to be able to control it on the main lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u18	In January, the CDA group asked about the position of the Netherlands on non-lethal assistance, which they did not grant to the Syrian Democratic Forces because of concerns about human rights violations, but to areas controlled by HTS and annexed by Turkey in Northern Syria. The government's response at the time was that they do not support groups that are concerned about human rights violations, whether they be Syrian Democratic Forces or other groups. The facts as put forward by Nieuwsuur and Trouw........................................................................................................... There have been human rights violations, war crimes and cooperation with Al-Qaeda-like groups. In this light, what is your assessment of the government's response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u19	I think it's a fair question that's being asked. I'd like to put it to the government, too. Because in January we were told: if there are doubts, we will not give any support. That has been said several times. That was said in the hearing by the officials present. That has been said in writing. I'd like to know: when did any doubts come to the Ministry? Let me give you one example of which I would like to have an explanation. Yesterday, Newsuur showed that one of the two companies they appoint as operators, Candor, said that they have written an internal report on the abuses of this aid. I'd like to know if this report is available and if it's reached the Ministry. And, by the way, I say, if that report can be found in the archive. Because another thing that surprised me is that one of the conclusions of the IOB, which has also done research, is that the archive is not in one place and is not complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u20	At the beginning of his story, Mr Omtzigt also referred to reports from the UN and Amnesty International, which reported much earlier than in January 2018, namely in 2016. We also asked through, in May. In May, in response to our questions about concerns about cooperation with jihadist groups, "If cooperation with jihadist groups had been discussed, the support to the group in question would have ended immediately." So that was January. The reports are out. In May, the cabinet again replied that nothing was wrong. You know the findings of Nieuwsuur and Trouw that something is going on. Can you give your opinion on that? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u21	I ask the cabinet whether it recognizes these signals and whether these signals have reached the cabinet. That's why I'm going to go over the two most precise signals I heard last night. First of all, Candor's report, which has to be somewhere. So I ask whether the government has received that report and whether it has done anything about it. And I ask for the fact that the transfer notes, so the evidence that the rebels sign when they receive, for example, a pick-up truck, have ended up with Al-Nusra, as it is claimed. So they were all stolen. The latter is important, because it was said here that the transfer certificates could not be made public, because then extremist clubs like Al-Nusra could read them. If Al-Nusra has already taken advantage of them, it seems to me that if they say that they are in danger if it is communicated to us in public, then the rebel groups must also be at risk when Al-Nusra has taken them away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u22	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u23	Indeed, the Syrian Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra, has seized receipts. It took away a mobile bakery and then it was so nice to give it back. In 2016 there were signals, in 2017 there were signals. Can I understand Mr Omtzigt in such a way that he wants to have all these facts on the table and have answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u24	I'd like to know what signals there have been. By the way, I understood getting back from the bakery something else, namely that the Dutch State has won a trial at a Sharia court. That would be a first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u26	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the programme, the government admits that it will not supply in principle any items that would be subject to authorisation if they had been exported from the Netherlands. Can you indicate if there are any goods I would ask the Minister and not you, President-in-Office of the Council, for which you should have a licence when exporting from the Netherlands? In other words, should the communication equipment and the anti-IED pickups really be delivered to the rebels under Dutch policy? Of course, that stuff was not delivered from the Netherlands but probably bought locally in Turkey and Jordan, but I would like that question answered. Finally, Mr President. We hear new things that have gone wrong every time. Can the Minister indicate in general terms what other matters not yet known to the Chamber have not gone well in the programme? Are there any other problems with this program known to you? Could you report it to the Chamber? When would we be able to hear it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u27	I have a question for Mr Omtzigt. If he can choose: a Syria ruled by Assad or a Syria ruled by Al-Qaeda or Al-Qaeda-related groups, what would he prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u28	The ideal that the government had, namely an inclusive Syria in which there is room for everyone, I would very much like. Al-Qaeda is certainly not to be preferred as a government, but I have certainly not forgotten the human rights violations committed by the Assad regime among its own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u29	I have not heard an answer to my question and just ask it again. If the choice turns out to be, and still be, between a dictator like Assad and terrorist groups that are Islamist, like Al-Qaeda, what would Mr Omtzig prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u30	Mr Baudet simplified the situation in Syria, where 700 groups were fighting. Among those groups were quite extremist groups. Mr Baudet is right to point that out. This included the Syrian government army, which was supported by Iran and Russia, among others. There were also, certainly at the very beginning, rebels who wanted a more freer and democratic Syria. It's not for me to choose anything right now. Let me put it this way: I am very happy to live in the Netherlands, not under Assad and certainly not under Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra or ISIS. I would never want to live among the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u31	If it's all so complicated that you can't follow it well, with all the rebel groups and this and that, what has the CDA interfered with? What pride! What a childish world view! What did you interfere with when you say: I can't choose and I'm glad that I live in the Netherlands because it's all very unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u32	I believe that Mr Baudet missed the first sentence of my contribution: the CDA was against this NLA programme in 2015. It also supported Mr Voordewind's motion to say that we should not do so because it probably does not bring a solution in Syria any closer. I note, however, that the government has simply presented this democratically and that a majority of the then Chamber has agreed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u33	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u34	I am glad that Mr Omtzigt is moving very slowly but certainly in my direction in this debate, but ask the question one more time. If we were to say afterwards that this was not such a good idea, would it not have been better in 2015 to just say: Assad should maintain order in Syria, because there is no alternative? Why didn't I hear you say that much more clearly? And why don't you say that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u35	Because barrel bombs have been used and other war crimes have been committed, including by the Assad regime. To be perfectly honest, I haven't forgotten the people who suffered from it either. The simple choice that Assad has done everything right, you won't hear from me. By the way, I am very pleased that Mr Baudet says that I am moving in his direction. I would like to point out to him that I have been asking questions about this for three-quarters of a year now and I have asked for a debate on it some seven times in order to get all of this up and running. I believe that a number of people have noticed this, but this is the first time, after a year and a half, that I hear Mr Baudet's opinion on this programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u36	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2013 I visited Northern Syria. Among other things, I spoke with a commander of the Free Syrian Army. Since 2011, there has been a civil war there and I wanted to be informed of the various fighting groups, especially the Free Syrian Army, because we have already received reports from public sources that the Free Syrian Army would cooperate with Al-Nusra. So I travelled to Syria, I finally spoke to that commander and asked him the question: are you currently working together, or are you planning to do so, or have you done so, with Al-Qaeda or Jabhat al-Nusra? Jabhat al-Nusra was then linked to Al-Qaeda and is known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham after July 2016. The response of the Free Syrian Army was that it fought with every group that had the goal of making Assad's regime disappear from Damascus. This was particularly true for al-Nusra, it explicitly said, because at that time it had more modern weapons than the Free Syrian Army. Under the dome of the Free Syrian Army, the Free Syrian Army, in 2016, also cooperated with the Sultan Murat Brigade. According to Syrian Envoy Koos of Dam NLA, this brigade received non-lethal assistance from the Netherlands. Even after firing missiles at the Aleppo neighborhood of Sheikh Maqsoud, where 83 civilians were killed, including 30 children, this brigade received help from the Netherlands a few months later. Thus the Syrian Envoy Koos of Dam. Also the 13th division, Shuughur el-Jabhat and other fighting groups that fought under the dome of the Free Syrian Army, received support from the Netherlands. After 2013, many of these fighters already moved to Al-Qaeda, to Al-Nusra, which now had a leading role in the opposition. The other major organisation that was said to have received support from the Netherlands was Jahbat al-Shamiya, an organisation that according to Amnesty reports was guilty of human rights violations, the management of Sharia courts and court executions. When I took this information and went further into public sources, I came to the motion in the April 2015 debate not to support the Free Syrian Army. This motion was unfortunately rejected because only the groups of the CDA, the SGP, the SP, the Party for Animals and 50PLUS supported the motion at that time. I noted that Parliament had been sidelined. We didn't know who the help went to, what they got and where the help ended up. So there is no parliamentary control and yet a decision by this Parliament. Mr. Chairman. 2018. Two quotes. "If the Syrian armed opposition groups had not been supported, 30,000 would have died instead of the now 500,000." "I do not believe that the moderate opposition that signed the Riyadh Declaration would also be moderate in practice." Thus the Syrian Envoy of the Netherlands, Koos van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u38	I notice that a step is being taken from March 2015 to 2018. During the intervening period, the Christian Union has also tabled a number of motions in this Chamber, including one that requests to examine the possibilities of gaining support from the allies to support the Kurds in Syria. I wonder how Mr Voordewind is reflecting on that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u39	Indeed, we tabled a motion in 2016 to support the Syrian Democratic Council. That is a dome of about 30 ethnicities working together to create a pluralistic society in Northern Syria, now called the Northern Federation. So we never called to support the PKK or the PYD. So I think there's been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u40	When I look at the recitals, it is true that there is talk of the Syrian armed forces. We also heard Mr Van Dam very clearly in the hearing saying that a large part of those forces consisted of YPG fighters. My problem is this. I share that problem with Mr Voordewind; let us be clear about it. Indeed, support has been given to organisations that were not so close to human rights. I share that with Mr Voordewind. But then to argue and afterwards to show insufficient reflective insight that he actually wanted to support other groups who were also guilty of human rights violations, who were guilty of recruiting child soldiers and who were guilty of expelling Arabs and Turkmen from the north of Aleppo. I ask Mr Voordewind once again how he reflects that with the wisdom of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u41	I think that... I'm gonna stop, because I hear all kinds of noises from the back seat of the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u42	Yeah, me too. That was Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u43	If he wants to say something, he's got to come forward, I'd say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u44	I agree, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u45	Mr. Chairman. I have the motion in front of me, and I don't see the word "force" anywhere. We then called for the support of the SDC, the Syrian Democratic Council. But let me be clear: where human rights have been violated or are being violated, Mr Kuzu finds me on his side when he is critical of that. In fact, we have invited organisations here and asked them about the Amnesty International report. That's what I did personally. I don't know if you've been to that meeting. But let us note the following. You're talking about the Syrian Democratic Forces. Inside there was a wide variety of groups. And if the government looked so critically at the so-called moderate groups, why didn't the government look so critically at the SDF? The SDF was looked at very critically, and the moderate opposition was apparently not looked at so critically. And then when we compare the two groups, we see that the SDF favours an inclusive society, that they didn't cooperate with extremist organizations, that they made sure that they worked with all the groups working there in the north, that they made sure that they built the rule of law, that they protected the position of women and that they protected the position of minorities. And if Mr Kuzu wants to compare that with jihadist organizations that advocate a Sharia state or an Islamic caliphate, then he really compares apples with pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u46	This is too easy. First of all, Mr Voordewind says that nowhere in his motion 'Kurdish Armed Forces' comes back. Then I will quote literally: 'whereas the Kurdish armed forces within Syria can be regarded as moderate'. And I think it is precisely Mr Voordewind who has problems with the word'moderate'. That is what I have often heard Mr Segers say in various topical and urgent debates. And what he's actually doing is I hope he can come to that understanding and really reflect on it. I think it's accusing the government, the coalition parties and the parties that voted against Mr Voordewind's motion, in my opinion, March 2015. He does exactly the same thing, but in the other direction. I really hope he can come to that understanding; perhaps at the end of this debate or after a few nights' sleep, because that is obviously necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u47	It is very easy from Mr Kuzu's agenda to attack the Kurds in this way. If Mr Kuzu is seriously taking part in this debate and says that what the Kurds were trying to build up in Northern Syria was similar to what happened to the groups Al-Sham, Al-Nusra and Al-Shamiya, who fought against the Kurds, who even fought among themselves, who advocated Sharia legislation and executed legal executions, then he is really lost, I tell you through Mr Kuzu, President. Then he could not have properly studied the difference between what happened in Northern Syria, where we were really working on building a rule of law, and what happened in the rest of Syria, namely building a caliphate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr Kuzu, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u49	Yes, I'm going to respond briefly, Mr. Chairman. I don't think it's possible to build a rule of law by recruiting child soldiers, Mr. Voordewind. And when you talk about the Kuzu agenda, it is not easy for you to get away with it on this point. Ú argued in March 2015 for the support of organisations that have openly committed human rights violations. You've argued for organizations. You have even been at the opening of a party office of the same organisation in The Hague. And right now, you're defending those activities. I would have hoped that, instead of falling into 'the Kuzu agenda' and trying to put that aside, I believe that you would look into what your role has been in this whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u50	I note very simply that Mr Kuzu did not support the motion in which we said that aid to the Free Syrian Army should be stopped. With this, he apparently agreed to support rebel groups, which, as we now hear from Nieuwsuur, have eventually become involved in an armed struggle, in the mixing of terrorism and terrorist organisations, and in gross violations of humanitarian war law. If he wants to defend these organizations here, I am going to listen to his contribution with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u52	Mr President, I had arrived in 2018. I quoted, as I said, Mr Koos van Dam, who questioned the aid that was ultimately given. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the round table we held last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u53	Before you proceed, Mr Kuzu may correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u54	Yeah, I'm making a personal statement. I think it is ridiculous and ridiculous that Mr Voordewind should accuse us of defending all kinds of other organisations at the moment when his arguments are up. That's bullshit, that's bullshit! Debatonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u55	I noted that Mr Kuzu did not support that motion at the time. For the past eight years I haven't heard from him about this and for the last three years I haven't heard from him when the help was going on. So I assume quietly that he agrees with the help that has been given, including the aid to all the groups we are talking about today, who have violated human rights and humanitarian law of war. If not, I'd like to hear it on his own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u56	One of the so-called moderate groups supported by the government is the Sultan Murad Brigade. The Minister or his predecessor was already aware from 2016 that this brigade had been involved in shelling in a Kurdish district, killing 83 civilians, including 30 children. Nevertheless, the Minister denies this in his reply and yet, despite warnings and despite the email exchanges of Amnesty International with the Ministry, the aid has not been stopped despite the criteria of no human rights violations and no war crimes. What does the Christian Union think of that? What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u57	Good question. I have just put it, as Mrs Karabulut has heard. I asked the cabinet exactly this question. How is it that an organisation that has been involved in attacks against civilians in Aleppo has been supported? How can it be that three, four months later, in the summer of 2016, this organisation, in its own words, is saying "because we don't formally know which organisations have received support from the Netherlands? I do not see any answers to that, not even in the public answer, so I await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u58	In the public response, the Minister writes that public sources show that other groups within Fatah Halab were responsible for the shelling. So the minister is denying it here with a hard heart. I'd like to hear your judgment. You have just said that other groups have rightly not been supported by human rights violations, while these groups have been supported over and over again, knowing that serious human rights violations are taking place. If I put this together, is the Chamber misinformed? What if we had known these facts? I would like to hear a judgment from you, because these are rather serious facts. I know that's what you've been worried about for years. And now this has come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u59	That is one of the questions I am now putting to the Minister. I also see the discrepancy. On the one hand, there is what the organisation itself has said in the public YouTube movies that we can watch. We then note that they received help from the Netherlands in the summer of 2016; they also thank the Netherlands for that. On the other hand, there is the answer, the defense, negative response from the cabinet that the Murad Brigade would not have been involved in these attacks. I would ask for a further explanation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u60	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u61	Finally. Could we conclude that the Secretary of State has simply ignored many warnings from the United Nations and Amnesty International about human rights violations and possible war crimes, because that support had to and would continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u62	I heard two sounds. That's part of my input, too. I heard two sounds. The one voice of Koos van Dam who said at the round table said: if we encountered, found or heard human rights violations, aid was stopped. That was also the promise you and I made to the official at the previous briefings we had. As a parliament, we were assured that if we encounter these violations, we will stop helping. And I see now, with you, in answering the questions that were not the case, that the cabinet started talking to these people. I see a path has been put in place, that human rights trainers have been offered. But I don't read in the answer that the help was stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u64	That is one of the questions that I have also had towards the cabinet. Was the policy that aid would be stopped at times when we encounter this? Or was the policy that we were going to talk to these organisations again and see if we could get them on the right track? Mr. Chairman. The image that emerged from the round table for me was that the situation on the ground in the field was very fluid. As I understand it, most people have described it about this. The so-called moderate opposition committed human rights violations and/or war crimes and violated humanitarian law. The name of the Sultan Murad Brigade has already come by. While the representative of the Netherlands in the Human Rights Council, at the time Charles van Oosterom, even called for the trial of human rights criminals to be carried out, we see that there have been talks with them. There was indeed cooperation with extremist groups. The main investigator, Carla del Ponte, also notes that there is considerable doubt about the Dutch support and she also notes serious human rights violations in the brigade. Mr. Chairman. I come to the following questions. First of all, on international law. The government claims that the question of whether NLA is in line with international law to armed groups engaged in civil war cannot be answered in general. What can the government say at the moment, now that we know what aid is involved? That list shall be given in the written reply. Can the Minister indicate which part would have been questionable when it comes to international law? The external international legal adviser says that the Netherlands has gone too far. What lessons does the Minister learn from the analyses that are now being carried out on international law and its application? Does the Minister consider that, in future, groups should no longer be supported if they cannot be excluded, or should I say it more cautiously: if there is a real risk that the goods delivered will think of those trucks, think of the military uniforms being used in the armed struggle? In short, if there is a real chance of using resources in the armed struggle, does the Minister still think it is justified to go with these groups? Does the government not think that the external international legal adviser should be consulted again next time when it comes to NLA aid? Mr. Chairman. Then the screening and the selection process. Would it not have been better for the Netherlands to do the selection and screening of the groups themselves? We depended on others partly in the north, on third parties in the south, on the United Kingdom. Why was support given to the Sultan Murad Brigade at all while the aid was reported in public sources in the summer of 2016? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In conclusion. There are serious shortcomings in the NLA support provided by the previous government. This resulted in major risks of abuse and of the use of material supplied by us in the armed conflict. It would be a good thing if the Minister would still answer outstanding questions and acknowledge the shortcomings in the past. I would then ask the Minister to respond to the improvements proposed by the Christian Union. We await the answers with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u65	If Mr Voordewind can choose between a Syria ruled by Assad or a Syria ruled by Al-Qaeda or Al-Qaeda-related groups, what does he choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u66	If the world was so black and white, we could've just been here legoing or strategoing. But I'm afraid it isn't. I do not know what Mr Baudet himself would say. Would he himself like to live in Assad's Syria today, a country where opponents of the regime, lawyers and journalists are persecuted and tortured, where, at any time of the day, at least at this time in Idlib, barrel bombs could be thrown, a country where political opponents end up in prison? I've been in the country two or three times. I've spoken to the human rights activists. Would he want to live in such a country himself? That's the question I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u67	Perhaps later, if Mr Baudet is speaking. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u68	So Mr Voordewind says: it's not all that black and white. At what stage does he think there would have been a real alternative to Assad? Or does he think there's still a real alternative to Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u69	The Netherlands stands for international law. We are the capital of international law here in The Hague. This is what our Constitution demands of us too, including ourselves as parliamentarians, and we will always strive to achieve a fairer world and to achieve respect for international law. In any case, it is not up to my party to do away with that and say: let us settle for a dictator who is now in Syria. And: let's keep doing business with that, despite the, what is it, 250,000, 350,000 dead that he has on his conscience. My party wants to continue its efforts to strengthen international law, to respect war law, to strengthen respect for minorities, to promote women's rights. That's what our energy keeps going out for. We will not let that go away, at least as long as we are here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u70	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u71	So you want to continue to weaken regimes all over the world, all regimes that don't exactly match our values? Is that the conclusion? Everywhere regime change, support rebels everywhere, send Toyotas everywhere? Is that Mr Voordewind's vision? Does he know the proverb "the road to hell is paved with good intentions"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u72	Mr. Chairman. I do not know where Mr Baudet has been lately; at least he has only been in the Chamber for a year. But Mr. Pieter Ommzigt, CDA, and we have just fought against the delivery of those trucks. I don't know if you got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u73	You say that you basically want to promote international law everywhere in the world, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u74	Mr. Chairman. I'd turn it around. We are not in favour of supporting armed groups. We will work where people work to create more justice and justice in their own countries and even put their lives at risk to support groups. We do that through the Human Rights Fund. We do this through funding a lot of organisations. Our shudder is that the moment you start supporting groups in a war zone that are engaged in an armed struggle and participate in it yourself, there are reasonable risks that your resources will be used for the wrong purpose and that you will strengthen forces that you really don't want to strengthen. I've been warning you about that for the past three years. That's why I went to Syria. If there are other forces that do this without violence, in a democratic way, seeking to strengthen the rule of law and respect for minorities, then those groups will always receive our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u75	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u76	Mr. Chairman. On September 10, Nieuwsuur and Trouw reported that Dutch civil support in Syria had come into the hands of groups that were guilty of human rights violations and that, in a single case, could be regarded as terrorist. Today we are three weeks, hundreds of parliamentary questions, a hearing and countless articles further, but the most important questions raised by the revelations have not yet been answered. How did it happen? Could it have been prevented? How can we do better in the future? And what does this mean for our future relationship and our future engagement in Syria? Let me say first of all that my group has always supported the idea behind the programme of civil support to moderate groups. The fact that the Netherlands imposed conditions on these groups was logical, but in order to be able to meet these conditions permanently in such a violent environment, selection and monitoring must be subject to the highest demands. And that's where it seems to have gone wrong. In recent weeks too, it has not become clear how selection and monitoring have been carried out in practice. We know that the US and the UK had selected some 70 moderate groups and that the Netherlands eventually chose 22. The cabinet used its own fatting procedure, says the cabinet, a selection based on its own criteria. How exactly did we do that? Who did that? And what happened after the goods were delivered? The cabinet wanted to exclude operational cooperation with extremist groups, but acknowledges that in certain cases there were contacts with jihadist groups. The cabinet wanted supported groups to commit to humanitarian war law, but it is unclear what consequences would be made if this did not happen. Accusations of excesses were discussed with the accused groups, so we read. Honestly, that sounds a little soft. The IOB report states that the risks that supplied goods would fall into the hands of extremist groups "were recognised and accepted at the political level." What does that mean? The Minister now says that tighter monitoring would have been in place. That requires an explanation, because did it go wrong in his vision? How are we going to prevent this from happening in the future? Mr. Chairman. The report which gave rise to this debate rightly also highlighted the issue of the international mandate. The external consultant was not asked for advice at the time, but has now given his light on the matter. That's important. Mr Nollkaemper did not make a decisive assessment of the NLA programme. He says he doesn't know the facts enough. But in the hearing he found that "the international boundaries have been reached and the Netherlands has collided with them." The cabinet, which is familiar with all the facts, I am at least assuming that it is vague, too vague, about those limits of international law. The fact that the aid was of a civil nature can mitigate the risks of the breach of the principle of non-intervention, as we read in the letter of 26 September. Yeah, that's possible, but how did that go? Is that what happened? Last night we heard from the letter we received at the time, that the internal international law advice indicated that, given the civil nature of the aid, "it could not be decided in advance whether it would be compatible with international law. This should be specified in more detail in each section." If so, I ask the Minister. And what were the conclusions then? Mr. Chairman. I come to my last and perhaps most important point: how to proceed? How do we proceed now? The cabinet says in so many words: Assad has won; there is nothing we can do. I understand the NLA has stopped. There is simply no moderate armed opposition left. But why are we abandoning the White Helmets? Even the support we have promised them for this year is hanging by a thread and is now being weighed. What's the reason for this? The monitoring is not in order, says the IOB, but improves quickly. Transparency can also be improved. Well, then we're gonna help them with that, I suggest, but we're not gonna withdraw our support. I ask the Minister to make a clear commitment on this point and consider tabling a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u77	I know that GroenLinks, like my party, attaches great importance to international law, but also to the criteria that were set for aid: human rights, respect for war law and not working with extremists. We all didn't know it was happening. The revelations are there because investigative journalists have done their job. Suppose that information had been shared and not declared secret, and that you knew in advance that aid would go to jihadists, human rights criminals and Al-Qaeda-like groups and would strengthen it. Did you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u78	I have referred to the conditions which Mrs Karabulut has just mentioned as 'logical'. It is about respect for humanitarian war law, not working with extremist groups and working towards a pluralistic or inclusive political future for Syria. Our support, the support given by GroenLinks to the programme, is, of course, given in the assumption that this is, I think, also an assumption that you can use............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What I find striking is that from all these documents and all those answers that we have now received, it appears that perhaps there has been a response, but that it has not always been done in a very adequate way. Sometimes people are sent to class. Sometimes there's been a good conversation. It has sometimes been said that there must be contacts in the context of the conflict, so I believe that it is called with a difficult word 'to prevent people from getting beaten up'. So apparently these criteria have been stretched over time. That is not what my group expected when we said yes to this programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u79	That is why I am asking this question. Since 2016, in the Ministry with the responsible directors, this minister was currently in office, and in the past another minister was known to have been involved in serious human rights violations. The United Nations, in fact the institute that we attach enormous importance to and that wants to bring war criminals to justice, has warned. Amnesty International has e-mailed. That's all ignored. We have not received any information on this. It is now above the table thanks to the revelations. If you had known, if we had known, would the programme have been supported by GroenLinks, the Labour Party and other groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u80	I already find it difficult to answer that question for GroenLinks, let alone for the Labour Party and other groups. Then Mrs. Karabulut asks me. But I did not say for nothing, I repeat, that there were conditions attached to this civil aid programme, which I am still in favour of today. I think it was good that the Netherlands was trying to find forms of support for the moderate opposition in that terrible minefield, on the one hand, the caliphate of IS and on the other hand that dictator who bombed its own population. But there were conditions to that, and it wasn't for nothing. Now we know that those conditions were not met. But if we had known that then, of course, we should have done something about it then. That's obvious. That is the answer to the question: would you have supported that? No, not if we had known then that those conditions would not be met. It's easy to talk in hindsight, of course. It's easy to say, but that doesn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u81	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u82	It's certainly not easy, but it's incredibly important. Now it appears that under the guise of "doing something" we have finally strengthened Assad and even jihadist groups, because they were militaryly dominant there, and that the borders have been sought. It is highly likely that there has been a violation of international law. I know that a party such as GroenLinks takes international law very seriously and attaches great importance to it, as does the rule of law in the Netherlands. Could you reflect on that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u83	I have just heard Mrs Karabulut say that the programme, which she refers to as a whole, would have strengthened the position of Assad and would have played into the hands of extremist groups. But I don't share that conclusion. In view of everything I have heard now, I have absolutely not come to the conclusion that the programme as a whole has had this effect. Things have gone wrong with this program. That is quite clear. There are groups that have been supported, and they may not have deserved that support. Maybe they didn't deserve that support at all, or they were radicalized later, or they started doing business with that stuff that we thought they wouldn't do at the time, for example using stuff for military purposes. But I do not share a general conclusion on the failure of this programme, as Mrs Karabulut puts it. I don't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u85	I see Mr Baudet walking to the microphone now. Before Mr Baudet asks me to choose between Hitler and Stalin, oh no, between Assad and IS, I go on. I was talking about the White Helmets. I do not understand why in the letter of 7 September, which we received three days before Nieuwsuur and Trouw came up with revelations, it is so radically stopped with those parts of the stabilisation programme which did not fall under the heading of civil aid, but which included, for example, the humanitarian intervention of the White Helmets, support for local councils or support for moderate, non-militant opposition groups. If there was anything wrong with that support or those organisations, I think we should help these organisations to solve these problems, for example with transparency, or monitoring or evaluation. Then we're not gonna stop the support. On that point, I asked for a commitment from the Minister. I would therefore ask the Minister to clarify that decision. Maybe it should be in a new letter. I also ask him whether it is true that other donors, such as Canada and Germany, will continue with such support. And I ask him, Mr President, that is my final question: what are we going to do to support the citizens of Syria who do not accept the victory of Assad as much as possible? Because that's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u86	I hear Mr Van Ojik saying that he wants to continue to support opposition groups...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u88	...or at least to clubs operating in Syria that should present an alternative to Assad. What does he really expect from that? Does he really expect an alternative to Assad in Syria in the foreseeable future? Or does he agree with me that the effect will only be the continuation of the war there and, secondly, that sooner or later extremist groups will regain control over those moderate groups and so you will get the choice between them, indeed, perhaps you should formulate it in this way, one dictatorship and the other, and therefore the choice we prefer, which is the least evil?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u89	I honestly do not share the analysis that it is either one evil or the other evil. Last week, at the invitation of colleague Van Helvert, we had four very brave civil activists, women journalists who operate partly from Syria, Damascus themselves. As a result, I know that the choice 'thank God' is not like Mr Baudet who is trying to present us all here. There are still a lot of citizens in Syria, organised or not organised, who do not accept the fact that Assad has won this war and that unfortunately there is nothing more we can do, I say to Mr Baudet. That is exactly the background to my questions to this minister, who actually writes in his letters: well, sorry, reality commands to say that Assad has won and so we stop our support. I don't think that's a good approach. That is the difference between Mr Baudet and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u90	Okay. Fine. Good approach or a morally correct approach, all good. But four women from Damascus... Nice, but we're talking about a great country where power is exercised. Undoubtedly, there are all kinds of clubs that represent things that we find attractive. But if it is not real that they are actually going to take over power in Syria, what are we doing? Then what is the foreland that Mr Van Ojik sees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u91	At least I don't see a foreland for me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u92	Not what you don't see, but what you do see. What do you expect from that? That those four women from Damascus are going to take over power? Where does it go if it's not a continuation of the war?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u93	Clear! Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u94	Mr Baudet is now making a caricature of an example that I use to make it clear that, to my great joy, there is still a movement in Syria that does not accept the fact that Assad has won this war, which does not want to choose between two evils, as Mr Baudet says: sometimes you simply have to choose between two evils. I think that the essence of Dutch foreign policy and foreign policy is that no matter how small the possibilities are often in all those countries that we discuss here every day and every week, we are all the more obliged to support these small opportunities. That is the essence of foreign policy. That is a realistic foreign policy, which does not allow itself to be forced into a choice between evil or worse as Mr Baudet wants, but which seeks a way of maximum strengthening what can be seen as positive power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u95	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u96	Mr. Chairman. Following the outbreak of the initially hopeful uprisings in Syria in 2011, Turkey and the Gulf States, supported by the US, armed and supported jihadist groups in Syria for many billions with one goal: Assad had to leave. Servable as our government is usually to the US and other allies, Rutte II decided to support the secret program for tens of millions of euros by providing 22 of the so-called moderate groups with hundreds of pick-up trucks, uniforms and heat equipment. There were clear criteria for this: the armed groups should respect war law and human rights, seek an inclusive Syrian political solution and exclude cooperation with extremist groups. We were closely controlled, entrusted time and time again, and if the rules of the Netherlands were infringed, aid would be stopped. That didn't happen. This was revealed in revelations of Trouw and Nieuwsuur. Take the Sultan Murad Brigade. Supported by the Netherlands, this movement, together with a number of other organizations within the rebel coalition called Fatah al-Halab, carried out attacks on the Kurdish residential area of Sheikh Maqsoud in Aleppo. During the shootings that took place in 2016, more than 80 people died, including 30 children. The government denies it, but Amnesty International came up with convincing evidence of war crimes. There are even videos of the groups themselves on which these shellings can be seen. Can the Minister respond to this? A second group supported by the Netherlands, Jabhat al-Shamiya, is also a violation of human rights, according to an Amnesty report of 2016. In that report Amnesty writes that Jabhat al-Shamiya is carrying out executions, kidnapping civilians and running Sharia courts where the death penalty is on apostasy. The Minister has been warned by Amnesty over and over again about this group. But despite this knowledge, the Minister has willingly given help to this group. Why? Researcher of the UN Human Rights Council Carla del Ponte pointed out that all armed groups committed serious crimes. That image was confirmed by other participants at the round table that we organized in preparation as a Chamber. It also pointed out that equipment supplied by the Netherlands was used in the war. Think for example of the pick-up trucks, on which guns can be mounted, the rebels' favorite weapon. Minorities such as Assyrians also speak of exclusion and ethnic cleansing. This turned out to be the case when in 2018 Dutch supported groups, following Turkey's example, took up arms against the Kurds in the north of the country, following reports of ethnic cleansing. But that's not the end of it. The groups supported by the Netherlands also worked together with jihadist groups. One of the rebel leaders summarized it as follows: "If you gave our flower, Al-Qaeda ate from bread. If you gave us vehicles, Al Qaeda was behind the wheel." There are also many examples of Dutch supported groups working with Al-Qaeda and the jihadists of Ahrar al-Sham in umbrella organisations. Why wasn't that ever reported to the Room? There are also many examples of aid falling into the hands of Al-Qaeda. Yesterday, attention was paid to this in a broadcast of Nieuwsuur. How bizarre is it that the D.A. wants to prosecute a Syrian for membership of a criminal organization for a terrorist purpose, Jabhat al-Shamiya, while the Netherlands has supported that organisation? What does this mean in concrete terms? Year in, year out, my group, together with many other questions on this support, expressed concerns and asked whether the Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda was not the laughing third. That's year in, year out systematically denied. The opposite turns out to be true. That's indigestible. The facts really need to come out now. Mr. Chairman. A country cannot just support an armed group that wants to overthrow a government. This is enshrined in the principle of non-intervention. If we let go of that principle, the end is lost. It is contrary to international law. Why does this minister think he can do that? After the Iraq war, an external international advisor was appointed, because when international law was set aside. That was never supposed to happen again. However, the external consultant was not even consulted on support for Syrian groups. How is that possible? Perhaps that is because he is quite critical of this support, I ask the Minister. Mr President, finally, the most important thing. Can the Minister finally confirm that support has been given to these groups, to the groups as revealed by Nieuwsuur and Trouw? And who are the other 16 groups that have received support? Did they also violate human rights, commit war crimes and cooperate with Al-Qaeda and other extremists? I strongly and strongly believe that if the Chamber had previously known that military support from the Netherlands to war criminals, human rights criminals, jihadists and allies of Al-Qaeda could not have been supported. The Court's support for this policy was only possible by declaring it secret from the outset and not answering the hundreds of questions to it honestly. I would like the Minister to respond to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u97	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2015, Syria, the great old inn of peoples and civilisations, had been in flames for four years and the inhabitants died at hundreds of thousands. The fire was set by the administrator, President Assad, but you also had the pyromaniacs of ISIS, who wanted to set the place on fire both there and here in Europe. Millions of inhabitants of that inn fled, first to the neighbors and then to us in an unsustainable refugee stream. Almost everyone in this Chamber wanted to do something to help put out that Syrian fire, and so did many of our neighbours and friends. My party proposed primarily to combat ISIS from the air, while others suggested primarily to support the moderate opposition. In the end, we have done both things together, with broad support from the Chamber. At that time there was hope that the inhabitants could put out part of the fire or at least master it. We all know that helping to fight a fire entails risks, especially in that dangerous neighborhood in an inconspicuous flame sea with fire-threatening individuals everywhere. That risk was taken. But then it was essential that we do everything possible to reduce the additional risks, for example the danger that we would assist the wrong people. And now, three years later, that Syrian inn is largely destroyed and hundreds of thousands more people are dead. Our extinguishing work has been able to help against ISIS, but could not stop the execution of that enormous disaster. That in itself doesn't mean it was a mistake trying to save people. The point is whether we have done enough to minimise the risks and, above all, how we can deal with them in the future. That is why three questions to the Minister. One: is the risk sufficiently managed? The programme was monitored by the Netherlands itself and by experienced international partners. Was that supervision enough? What error margins are actually realistic and acceptable? The programme was, and we know it, assessed as adequate. Is that still true? Would we have the same decision-making and supervision in the future? My second question: did something go wrong? That is an important question and we must have an answer to it. That is why the VVD took the initiative at that round table. It showed that things aren't always so black and white. For example, Mrs Del Ponte said that she does not have sufficient information for a judgment. And so the experienced Syrian expert, Mr. Lister, said that it was wrong at all that the aforementioned groups are jihadist or terrorist. But it's still a question. It has not yet been answered. It's still a question. Has support actually been given to terrorist groups? What groups? What impact could this have on the prosecution policy of the prosecution? And the third question: what can we learn from this? 'Cause that's what it's about. The programme initiated under Minister Koenders has been reviewed and reduced by Minister Zijlstra and ended very quickly by Minister Blok. So if answers to some of my questions are not entirely positive, then we have to look to the future. Is it possible to undertake a support programme without risk? How should this be decided? And if we become even more reluctant, what significance does this have for our alliances, for our position in international fora and for the Dutch support for foreign NGOs? Mr. Chairman. Of many victims of the war in Syria, I held hands in my previous position, when I was still working in the United Nations peace negotiations. That is why I have personally heard a lot of people talk about these incredible horrors we are talking about. I have also shaken the hands of Syrian government representatives and moderate and also radical rebels. That has taught me that this really is a nothing and no-one-savvy war. A war you can't imagine, but it's felt incredibly deep by everyone, including everyone here. And I've learned that you can't predict reality in advance, but you can't predict it afterwards, with retroactive effect. If we decide to help, as we have ever done here, we must do so with great caution, because the reality of wars is harsh and foggy. We must take that into account when we take decisions here and when we act, but also when we judge afterwards. We must continue to learn the lessons of that. Healing hands are often dirty hands too. How can we keep them as clean as possible without tying them to our backs for fear? 'Cause we don't want to. That is a question for the Minister, but it is also a question for the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u99	Yesterday Nieuwsuur revealed that Dutch aid had ended up with Al-Qaeda in Syria. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u100	If Dutch aid has actually ended up with Al-Qaeda, that is of course extremely worrying. But I would ask Mrs Karabulut to take a good look at what we are talking about. The example mentioned earlier by Mrs Karabulut was from a bakery that was stolen, I believe. So it was stolen, so first given from the Netherlands to something. At least it is alleged; it has yet to be established. If someone else steals her, did we help the thief? I don't think Mrs Karabulut would say that. So we're gonna have to take a good look at what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u101	But that support has ended up with Al-Qaeda. What was your verdict on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u102	I have just said that if aid comes into the hands of Al-Qaeda, it is of course a bad thing. We don't want to support Al Qaeda. But I say to Mrs Karabulut that you must first see what the Netherlands has done. The Netherlands has had a programme with risks. You can't say, like I said, that if the risk eventually materializes, it was by definition wrong to try to do something. Because you're taking a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u103	It can be concluded and noted that there were a number of crystal clear criteria. Reveals show that groups have been supported who have committed human rights violations and war crimes and who have cooperated directly or indirectly with Al-Qaida. Knowing this, can't the VVD insist that this was the purpose of the program? Or does the VVD say: okay, we take this for granted, this can happen, and yes, that we here in the Netherlands are trying to condemn a young person who has travelled to one of those groups that we have supported for terrorism, is a completely different story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u104	Mrs Karabulut is asking for different things here. Let me answer the most important first. Can you, as the Netherlands, deliberately provide support to terrorists? Of course you can't. Of course we're not doing that. If you give support to someone who does want to support you, and that support is then stolen by the terrorists, can you blame the Netherlands for that? No, of course not, Mrs. Karabulut. But if Mrs Karabulut also asks whether it is right to support organisations which may violate human rights at all, then I say to Mrs Karabulut, look at yourself. I didn't want to do it, but... Look, this might be a little too small. That's why I have a slightly bigger one. Perhaps you can recognize yourself in this photo, Mrs. Karabulut. Here you are on a rally with the group you just spoke to Mr Voordewind, the Kurdish movement PYD, which violates human rights. You said to Mr Voordewind... I have just written it down: it is right that some groups that violate human rights have not been helped. That was exactly about the movement. Yeah, I don't know what's going on here, but here you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u105	Here the VVD does an "Erdogannet." It doesn't matter. I can answer that in no time. But it was about non-lethal support from the Netherlands and the support of the VVD for this program. So, if I understand correctly, I can conclude that it is a calculated risk for the VVD that this support ends up with jihadist groups and/or war criminals? I agree with Mr Koopmans that the practice is much more uncomfortable. That is what we were able to hear during the round table. Harald Doornbos, who has been like one of the few in the area, says: since 2013 it has been madness. That is the answer to the substantive question. Now let's get that picture. I would like to explain this, because you are interested in it. You could have asked me. I'm standing there because when Kobani was attacked... These organizations, a number of foundations in the Netherlands, invited me to speak there. I have expressed my solidarity with the peoples who oppose and fight against ISIS. No more, no less. May I remind you that we have in no way advocated non-lethal or lethal support for these groups in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u106	I am very grateful to Mrs Karabulut, because she says exactly what is at stake. She has expressed her support for such a group that has just been discussed that it is also doing human rights violations: child soldiers and that sort of thing. But Mrs Karabulut says: I stand on a manifestation and then I say'support'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u107	Human rights violations...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u108	Mrs. Karabulut! Were you finished talking, Mr. Koopmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u109	No, actually, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u110	You may finish your sentence and then you will have the floor, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u111	'Cause it fits the whole thing. If you want to do more than just write on a banner or shout "support," then you have to decide to do something. If you're gonna help people put out fires, you're gonna take the risk that things go wrong, that you're gonna get hurt a little bit, that you're gonna take a risk, that you're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u112	I'll just take...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u113	...takes risk. That's the reality of the war.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u114	I distance myself from all the facts that Mr Koopmans has given me. I was and am in solidarity with the Kurdish people and the Syrian people who oppose oppressors and call for self-determination. That is not to say that I support the war. That is not what we have done. That doesn't mean that every human violation of any club is equally bad. That does not mean that the SP says as the VVD says: if it suits us for dirty wars, then we should move that international law aside. No, there's one standard for that. International law is important. Human rights violations must not be allowed. To be honest, I am surprised at the honesty of Mr Koopmans, who says: well, if in practice that means that we support jihadists and/or violate human rights, then that was not the aim, but it can be the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u115	I think Mrs Karabulut has already made a small advance on what Mr Baudet is about to ask me; of course not. You can decide, as this Chamber has done in large majority, to try to control that huge fire in Syria. If you decide to help and therefore do more than just say "I support you" on a manifestation, then you also have to accept the risk that something may go wrong sometime. I am just saying that this is not acceptable by definition, because it needs to be selected very well, it needs to be monitored properly, it needs to be evaluated and we need to learn lessons later. So I'm not saying "it's by definition good" or whatever. No, you have to follow it very closely, but you have to accept that something can go wrong if, in a reality of a war in the Middle East, you decide to do something because we all call for something to happen. You have to deal with that properly. You have to learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u116	Last point on this point, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u117	We are therefore fundamentally opposed to this. Doing something, humanitarian aid: fine. People support in their right to self-protection: fine. But we've been doing something since 2001. The illegal war in Iraq, Libya, part of Syria; what has it brought us? You, Mr. Koopmans, your party did support all that. It brought chaos, insecurity, the origin of ISIS and many dead and oppressed. We do think that is fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u118	Indeed, Mrs Karabulut starts in 2001, the Twin Towers. The VVD then stands shoulder to shoulder with the victims and tries to help catch the terrorists. Mrs. Karabulut then chooses to paint banners. The Jezidis are being dealt with in Iraq, murdered by ISIS. The VVD chooses to send F-16s there to protect those people. Ms. Karabulut's SP chooses to paint banners. We are talking about Syria, where there is a huge civil war and where we were hoping in 2015 that it could still be turned a little bit better or that we could at least help people. The VVD decides to support this programme provided it is well selected, monitored and guaranteed. And Mrs Karabulut of the SP chooses to paint banners. Yes indeed, we think about some things fundamentally differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u119	Yes, and if you keep calling Mrs Karabulut, then I have to give Mrs Karabulut the floor again to make a brief point, and then it has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u120	I can only conclude that we suffer many billions of weapons later, many wars later, many deaths later from terrorism, that the insecurity has increased for the peoples there but also here, and that the VVD simply wants to continue with this outdated, totally failed strategy. Indeed, if doing something means supporting and ultimately stimulating terrorism, then I choose not to do anything and they side by side with those peoples to fight...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u121	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u122	...for peace. You can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u123	You've made your point. I'm going to... Who was there before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u124	May I say something else, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u125	You may respond briefly, but do not repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u126	In the light of horrible terrorism, when you say "I'm not doing anything" or "I'm going to paint a banner," that seems to me to be a very bad thing. I would rather try to see what we can do, provided that it is very carefully selected, monitored and evaluated in the hope that we can contribute something. If we can't contribute that, then we have to stop. I believe that this Minister has done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u127	I broadly agree with Mrs Karabulut's position in this debate. I have one follow-up question to Mr Koopmans. Where in the Middle East has the democratic regime change agenda had a positive effect? Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Egypt? What country is he thinking of? What example should we take to understand what he sees for himself in a development? What does he expect from supporting all kinds of groups and sending F-16s? Where have we seen something Mr Koopmans says: look, that is a good example? Where in the Middle East have we seen a positive development after the regime change agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u128	We are not talking about regime change, but about the positive contribution, if I understand Mr Baudet correctly; I would very much like to do so. I just mentioned the example of the Jezidis. They were driven on a hill, on a mountain by ISIS, which threatened to be wiped out massively. Then the Netherlands decided not only that the Netherlands did; we are not a superpower either to make a contribution by sending F-16's, who bombed those encirclers there. That saved a lot of these people. That seems to me to be a hugely important contribution. I hope Mr Baudet agrees with me. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u129	The example you come up with is that in the midst of a conflict, in which one particular battle point has been, perhaps a certain slaughter would have been prevented. But is it not true that the emergence of ISIS, which we are talking about in the first instance, is the direct consequence of the regime-change agenda that rolled out the West over Iraq and Syria? I can imagine you saying that we saved a few people, but we first created that problem ourselves through that agenda that you support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u130	Mr Baudet is now trying to start a philosophical-historical discussion with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u131	Well, you're in a position of your own, because you're saying we have to send F-16s wherever we can and help oppressed people everywhere right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u132	I did not say that, of course, but we will be able to read that in the Acts. I think the more important point Mr Baudet tried to make earlier is whether you can choose between Assad and Al-Qaeda. 'Cause that's what he really wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u133	Proceed, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u134	That is indeed the background to this somewhat more detail issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u135	Yeah, clear! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u136	On this point, I would like to say the following to Mr Baudet. I've talked to a lot of victims, people who've been through horrible things. Whether that was done by Assad or by Al-Qaeda, by ISIS or by an opposition group, those people have experienced horrible things. That really hit me. That, I think, has hit us all tremendously. Then I find it completely inappropriate to go into some sort of quartet like "give me Al-Qaeda, then I'll give you Assad." I do not know if it is beneath Mr Baudet's dignity, but I find it beneath the dignity of those victims. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u137	So that's what I think is emopolitical. Of course it's bad when you talk to victims and, of course, it hits you. But you can't determine your policy based on "hey, I got through it; let's do it"? That's not some serious foreign policy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u138	We did not say 'let's do something, because it's all so dramatic'. What we decided with so many people here, so many years ago when that Syrian inn was on fire, was that we were going to see if we could provide massively well-selected, monitored and guaranteed certain non-lethal support while, as my party wanted, we would also contribute to the fight against ISIS with F-16s. That's not just doing anything. Perhaps Mr Baudet sees it that way, but I think that is a real-politic approach, where you also learn lessons from things that go wrong. That's not just anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u139	I would like to return to the end of Mr Koopmans' speech just before the debate began. Then he spoke of hands: empty hands, clean hands and hands behind his back. We can keep our hands behind our backs now, and then we don't make dirty hands either. I'll just get it together, but that's too easy for him, he said. I would therefore like to ask him the following. I have been surprised by the fact that everything we do in the area of stabilisation programmes is being stopped. That's what the letter of September 7th says. That's the hands behind the back. That's saying: yes, sorry, Assad won; we hate that, but we can't help it. Is Mr Koopmans prepared to ask the cabinet with me not to leave it at that, and so to see if we can't find a form after all, I mentioned the White Helmets as an example, but perhaps there are more to go on with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u140	It is important that we look at everything very critically, because we should not take unnecessary risks. We must dare to take risks; that is why I say: let us not stand with our hands behind our backs. We must dare to put our hands out of our hands and possibly make dirty hands. However, these risks must be manageable and controllable as much as possible. So I ask the Minister how we deal with that. I think Mr Van Ojik is actually asking me what he wants to ask the Minister, namely: what can we do? I'd be happy to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u141	That is a very general answer, but we are talking about concrete people, who in the most terrible war there is incredibly brave in what they do every day. Mr Koopmans may know that better than we do. So I'm not talking about taking risks in abstraction. I am talking about specific programmes which have been supported by the Netherlands and which are now being stopped in concrete terms. I ask Mr Koopmans to invite the cabinet with me to reconsider this. Then he shouldn't answer very theoretically, because we have to stick our hands out, I know that too. We agree on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u142	I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u143	It is, isn't it? That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u144	So the question is indeed: what can we do in Syria and what can we not do? That's what we asked the Minister. That is what Mr Van Ojik has asked, and that is what I am asking. So I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u145	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u146	Mr. Chairman. "Geopolitics" is a dirty, dirty and dirty word. It's a disgrace. The essential question is why countries thousands of miles away are so massively considering the Middle East. Why did the international community not take equal care of Algeria and Rwanda in the 1990s? Why has it not taken care of conflict regions such as Yemen and South Sudan, or of oppressed peoples such as the Rohingya or the Uighurs? What is the importance of the Middle East? Everyone knows the answer: oil and money. That's why dirty, dirty, dirty political games are being played. It's been like that for over 100 years. That was when Thomas Edward Lawrence, better known as Lawrence of Arabia, won the trust of Arab tribal leaders to make them fight for the British lie of an Arabic empire. After the victory, the British patched their promise of Arab unity to their boots. They divided the land with a ruler among as many tribal leaders as possible, and that also resulted in Syria. Divide and rule politics. A disgrace. Mr. Chairman. The geopolitical games were further developed. At some point someone must have thought: why should we fight ourselves? Why don't we let people fight each other? Then we'll give them weapons to shoot each other off. Then we give them bombs to destroy house and fireplace. In the meantime, a lot of money was made by the arms industry and shady private companies of the Western meddling industry. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the Netherlands was involved in this. Let's go back to the beginning: the Arab Spring, March 2011, when people in Aleppo protested for civil rights and democracy. Assad reacted cruelly and knocked down those uprisings. Everyone wanted Assad gone, except Putin and Thierry Baudet. All kinds of groups were armed and equipped with goods to fight against each other, with the promise that they would have democracy. When the United States asked if the Netherlands could arm warring groups in Syria, former Minister Koenders was eager to get on the plane to the United States. When the chief calls, you say yes. Mr. Chairman. For example, the Netherlands sent cars, military clothing and relief supplies to warriors in Syria, while our own soldiers don't even have enough equipment. But even worse, the support came into the hands of groups that violate human rights and work closely with terrorist organisations. The Netherlands has thus contributed to facilitating war crimes and human rights violations. We should have known. Internal lawyers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicated that they could not indicate in advance whether the support programme was in line with international law. The opinions of attracted experts and an international consultant were deliberately not asked or in the wind. Countless signals from Syria that the support ended up in wrong groups were simply ignored. There is also the difference in opinion between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office on the designation as a terrorist organisation. How can it be that two institutions, which are part of the same government, qualify groups with terrorist motives completely differently? We are therefore considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Just as in the war in Iraq, joining America and the Western meddling industry is more important to the government than international law. You could even say: more important than human lives. Why the sigh to join the big boys? The answer to this may be that jobs are being created in international positions for friends and friends of Rutte. See Hennis. But what is the result, seven years after the Arab Spring, in 2018? More than half a million people have been killed and more than 5 million people have been fled from a country that is in ruins. In addition to all the human suffering in Syria, we must ask ourselves what we have learned from it. With pain in the heart, I must say, bar little. Many people in this country still reason: the enemy of my enemy is my friend, although very, very wrong groups are involved. Let me give you some examples. Mr Koopmans has started with a first step, but I must say that ChristianUnion Chamber member Mr Voordewind and colleagues asked for support for the PYD and the YPG. We even saw Voordewind opening an office of the YPG, which is associated with the PKK, a recognised terrorist organization. I do not know what is happening in the picture that I have in my hand now, but I assume that Mr Voordewind's message is not: you will not violate human rights, you will not recruit child soldiers, you will not drive people from their homes and fireplaces. But these nasty gangs are responsible for countless human rights violations. Once again, I speak of a deep disgrace. As soon as war crimes are committed by a group, we must distance ourselves from them and not support them. We should not, like the General Daily, make romantic articles about a Brabander who is being prosecuted for his contribution to war crimes. Devin, a proud Brabant Kurd, who wanted to keep his last name a secret, had no problem with it when the General Dagblad shared his photo on the front page, posing with a weapon for a YPG flag. It's really outrageous. The Netherlands must not become a safe home for terrorists. Not now, not ever. Finally, Mr President. The blunder in Syria has caused the government to be bombarded with troublesome MPs of coalition parties, to the displeasure of Minister Blok, because he fell over CDA-Room member Van Helvert on Prinsjesdag. As an intimidator, Blok showed that he is not served by critical questions. We think that's a shame. Critical MPs like Mr. Omtzigt and Mr. Van Helvert, who have really asked a lot of questions in the past, we must cherish. We should not try to keep this under wraps with unsavory methods. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to do the following. Stop intimidating MPs. Stop all debatable international missions. It's 61 right now. Start washing your hands, not in innocence, but in debt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u147	Thank you. Mr Voordewind has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u148	We are talking here about attacks on and support for groups in Syria. We're also talking about an attack on Afrin. We had a debate on this a while ago. Can I ask Mr Kuzu again whether he would like to condemn this attack by the Turkish Government on Afrin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u149	Just as I did in that debate at the time, I stand by my opinion. But using a debate on support from the Netherlands to terrorist organisations...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u150	Mr President, I have not had an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u151	...to wash Mr. Voordewind's hands in innocence and frame that way, that just doesn't work. People don't fall for that either. Don't even think about it. Don't do it again. You've asked countless questions about it. The government has a view on it. You also know the view of DENK on this. Do not use this debate to draw the Turkey map, because you are trying to wash your hands in innocence, and that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u152	I understand that Mr Kuzu wants to leave Turkey very quickly. I asked him a simple question. If he does not want to answer that question and has not answered it in the past, why would he defend Turkey? Why is he taking up for Erdogan, who is overplaying his hand in Kurdistan, in northern Syria, and who is occupying part of Syria as a sovereign state at this time? If he blames us about dirty hands, let him take a look in the mirror himself the moment he takes on an Erdogan who throws people in prison because they have another opinion, which silences the media, which locks up political opponents. If you're gonna stand up for that, you're gonna have to look at yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u153	I would like to point out to Mr Voordewind that I do not think Kurdistan exists on the map, although of course Mr Voordewind would have liked to have seen it, given his support for an organisation associated with a terrorist organisation on the list of the European Union. In this debate, Mr Voordewind can try to distract from the support of the Netherlands to terrorist organisations and also to distract from the fact that he himself tabled a motion in which he preferred the support of the YPG and the PYD. He can try to distract from that, but he's just not gonna succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u154	I started by asking whether Mr Kuzu would like to condemn Turkey's attack on a sovereign state, namely Syria, and the attack and invasion of Afrin. I didn't get an answer. Then what does he think of the Sultan Murad Brigade, who has contributed to this attack? Is this brigade a democratic organisation that should be supported? Do you think there's any connection to Turkey? Do you agree with the Sultan Murad Brigade attack on Afrin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u155	As far as the Sultan Murad Brigade is concerned, I have indeed read Amnesty International's reports. I would also like to say openly and honestly that at the moment when human rights are violated in the conflict area in the north of Aleppo, in Afrin, I am on your side, but I can see that Mr Voordewind has a lot of difficulty in condemning an organisation like the YPG and wanted to support it on 2 July 2015, supported by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP and Mr Knops of the CDA. I notice he doesn't give a home. Once again, you are not going to succeed in trying to distract yourself from the actual situation that is on the table today. You can put Kuzu away for a while as a long arm of Turkey, what you are doing now, do not wash your hands clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u156	I note that you will then see for yourself. I haven't even put those words in my mouth yet. I asked you the simple question. You lecture us on human rights violations. You are defending Turkey's invasion of a sovereign country, involving innocent civilians, from which many refugees have emerged and people have died and civilian victims have been killed. You're defending Erdogan. Then you and Erdogan wash your hands in innocence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u157	That's exactly the problem. Mr Voordewind says he would not have said anything. During this interruption alone, he is already talking about all kinds of things that I have never said. What makes you say that? And then you say you're not framing? Again, you cannot wash your dirty hands when it comes to this motion and supporting the YPG by giving off on me or DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u158	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u159	Mr. Chairman. I didn't bring anyone compromising photos, but of course I have a very good story. Mr. Chairman. The Rutte II and III Cabinets are among the greatest friends of terrorists from Syria. Not only is Syria's return to the Netherlands allowed, instead of denying them access and depriving them of Dutch citizenship, but not only are our borders wide open to the probably thousands of terrorists who are now present in Europe, but now it has also been shown that terrorists have been actively supported by our government. The facts are clear: The Netherlands supported terrorists and human rights thugs in Syria, directly and indirectly, with uniforms, satellite phones, laptops, mattresses, sleeping bags, cameras and pickup trucks. The Cabinets-Rutte II and III served as a web store for a mess of Syrian battle groups. Of these, most fighters were pure Islamists, jihadists or terrorists. At least one thing they weren't: moderate. Less than a year ago, the Netherlands supported Jabhat al-Shamiya, a group that independently runs Sharia courts and has carried out public executions. The Netherlands also supported the Sultan Murad Brigade: Erdogan errand boys who had to clean up the Kurdish Afrin. Among other things, they did so with pick-up trucks as supplied by the Netherlands. The group also bombed a Kurdish residential area in Aleppo with rocket fire. And as if it couldn't be any crazier, Prime Minister Rutte's cabinet also financed local elections in Syria, in an area controlled by the Battle Group Jaish al-Islam, literally translated: the army of Islam. And also these bandits had a fondness for oppression, for Sharia and for public executions. Mr. Chairman. We can no longer say that a mistake has been made by the government. There has just been an insane mischief conducted from the Tower in The Hague and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm going back in time, Mr. Chairman. As early as 2012, the PVV warned that the so-called "moderate opposition" would not last long. And in 2012 we already oppose the provision of assistance to Syrian combat groups. Nevertheless, in 2015, despite clear opposition from the PVV, the Netherlands decided to provide assistance to something that was long gone in Syria, namely "moderate opposition groups." In 2015 everyone could already find out via the internet that the moderate resistance had been wiped out there. Nevertheless, Minister Koenders had to and would insist on pushing through the Dutch support for the Syrian opposition. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned groups which should never have passed the inspection, even on the basis of the selection criteria used by Rutte's private offices. But what about all the other groups? There were 22 of them in total. The PVV wants this list to be made public. The Netherlands has a right to know which other human rights criminals, terrorists and war criminals, or whatever you want to call them, were supported by the government. That cesspool needs to be completely opened. I ask the Minister to do so. Is he willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. The government directly supported terrorists and the like with its policy of supporting Syrian armed opposition groups. As a result, there is now a risk that criminal proceedings against terrorist suspects in the Netherlands will be undermined. Ticking time bombs that have to appear before the Dutch court may be released sooner than often. Why is that risk taken, I ask the Minister, by supporting Syrian combat groups? Does the Minister agree with me that this is an undesirable and scandalous consequence? Mr. Chairman. It is too crazy for words that we still cannot see many documents on the Syrian support programme. They remain well hidden, just like our Prime Minister, who is also diving away on this issue. And that, while the Prime Minister is the only one in the present cabinet who has been taking part in the Council of Ministers' decision on this throughout the entire support programme. This is why the PVV wants to know when this support programme was discussed in the Cabinet and on what basis. Those documents must be made public. I would also like to know whether the Prime Minister has seen the list of the 22 combat groups and when the Prime Minister has been informed of the atrocities committed by these unsatisfied Islamic human rights criminals. What can the Minister tell us about that? Mr. Chairman. This Minister for Foreign Affairs has been intensively questioned about what happened under the support programme for those armed Syrian opposition groups. Did he answer openly and honestly? Not at all, I'd say. In May, he informed the Chamber that operational cooperation between groups and jihadists supported by the Netherlands had not occurred as far as known. But very recently we received a very different response from this same minister, namely that it was the case that moderate groups of chance alliances concluded with extremists. And after the round table of the Chamber with experts and witnesses, the Minister only let go that the Netherlands did indeed help human rights criminals. Where is this twisting, I ask the Minister. Finally, Mr President. The Dutch government was aware that it was helping human rights violators. Commanders of combat groups were given a course of human rights rather than, as should have been done, stopping support for them immediately if this happened and the Dutch officials were to be heard. The promise to the House of strict supervision of the combat groups and the maintenance of harsh and clear criteria was not worth a penny. Isn't that right, Minister? Mr. Chairman. I would point out, for the sake of clarity, that, in view of all the above, the PVV has, of course, a huge problem of confidence with regard to this minister, who is politically responsible for all these abuses. I look forward to his reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u160	I know the PVV has been consistent in this. She has always distanced herself from support for the moderate groups, but I would like to ask Mr De Roon why the PVV did not support the Christian Union motion at the time when it was discussed when the decision was taken in April 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u161	That motion states that the money that was then allocated to helping those Syrian fighting groups could be better spent on refugees. Mr Voordewind wanted to break that money and spend it on refugee camps. The PVV didn't want that. If I look at the debacle of that motion, you have managed to obtain only 40 votes in favour of that motion; 108 votes were against it, then it is clear that for the PVV it would not have made sense to make a motion on its own without that strange condition 'transfer the money to refugee camps', because a motion tabled by the PVV, saying'stop supporting those groups', would have got even less than 40 votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u162	Well, I'm surprised to hear that. This motion wanted exactly what the PVV had been advocating for three years, namely no support for those moderate groups. She found that miserable; she foresaw all the risks, for which applause. Then we filed a motion. And now Mr De Roon says: but yes, even with our support it would not have had a majority. What does the PVV do if it's for something? She has taken a great deal of distance from this support, but if there is a motion, I get the answer: 'you still wouldn't have had a majority' or'should have had that support to the refugee camps'. You are also in favour of aid for refugee camps, because you are not in favour of development cooperation. Your election programme does say that you are in favour of reception in the region, for emergency aid, so that the refugees stay there in your eyes. So you couldn't have had a problem with that, could you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u163	Mr Voordewind did not listen very carefully to my first reaction. I made it clear that the PVV was not served by the second part of its motion, namely: transfer the money for those fighting groups to refugee camps. We were not in favour of that, we did not want to support it; that is why we did not support your motion. I added that if we had come up with a motion ourselves without that weird condition you put in, we would have got even less votes than the 40 that you were getting together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u164	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u165	Finally. I thought I answered Mr De Roon's questions and comments, because I said that your election programme states that you are in favour of emergency aid, that you are in favour of reception in the region. The motion contained two things you were very much in favour of. The motion called on the cabinet not to support the Free Syrian Army and to receive those refugees. You were very much in favour of that. We are also in favour of distributing the most vulnerable fairly across Europe, but this motion did exactly what you wanted, and you voted against it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u166	I am making another attempt to make that clear to Mr Voordewind. We felt that enough has already been done to accommodate refugees in the region. We also felt that the Netherlands contributed enough to this. And so we didn't want the money allocated to those Syrian combat groups to be transferred to refugee camps. We would have preferred it to have gone to the Dutch armed forces, for example, to offer a small solution to all these deficiencies in the armed forces we now know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u167	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer, who replaces Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed replacing Mr Van der Staaij, who has obligations elsewhere and I hope to attend the second part of the debate. Mr. Chairman. In the chaotic Syria of recent years, it was pounding from the armed groups. It was more than 1,500, who also regrouped around the clock. The dividing line between moderate and not moderate was thin. Your friend today could suddenly be your enemy tomorrow. Therefore, the so-called non-lethal support to the moderate opposition in relation to the SGP Group was too high a risk. Can you really prevent things from falling into the wrong hands and being used for human rights violations in such a chaotic context? Therefore, in 2015, the SGP supported a motion by Mr Voordewind calling on the government not to do so. And that is why we support the cessation. However, the government decided to go on smooth ice, with all the consequences. According to research by Nieuwsuur and Trouw, Dutch equipment ended up in very controversial opposition groups and were most likely also used for military purposes. The SGP Group assumes that it is very likely that not all the guarantees that the government had promised could be fulfilled in practice. It is therefore very important for the government to answer the question of how this could be done and how it could be prevented in the future. Mr. Chairman. Our first question is: how does the government look back on the decision-making process on aid with its knowledge of the present situation? It would be useful for Parliament to be more involved in the future in assessing the form and content of such programmes, for example through a special review framework. My second point concerns the design of the support programme. The evaluation study of August 2018 and the reportage of Nieuwsuur and Trouw show that there was no good selection and tight monitoring. What lessons does the Minister draw from the future design of such programmes and how can the risks be further mitigated? Thirdly, in recent years, the SGP Group regularly raised concerns about the future strategy for Syria. Was it possible to find a political solution to the future of Syria without the cooperation of Assad? Shouldn't the Netherlands have left more opening to the Assad regime? I'd like a response from the government. Mr. Chairman. My final question concerns the international law side. I would like to hear the weighting of Mr Nollkaemper's international analysis cabinet. I was looking forward to Mr Nollkaemper's reply that only in very exceptional circumstances is the legal problem when countries do nothing while vulnerable sections of the population are slaughtered in other countries. Does this not reward the current state of international law? How can we contribute to a more refined legal development in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u169	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am here to replace our Foreign Affairs spokesman, Mr Van Rooijen. I'm not standing here because 50PLUS wants to know exactly who or what, when, where and for what. I am not standing here once and for all to get a clear explanation of which opposition groups in Syria were very moderate, a little moderate, a little jihadistic or very wrong. Last week's round tables made it clear to us that the situation in Syria is far too complex to place the various groups in boxes. The 50PLUS is mainly concerned with the expectations of the non-lethal aid programme and how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dealt with it. The decision in 2015 to provide non-lethal aid to the moderate opposition in Syria has not been made secret. Because it all seemed neatly arranged, the majority of the Chamber agreed. But now journalist Harald Doornbos says that this moderate opposition hardly represented anything in 2015. Charles Lister stated that the aid was too late and too limited. They didn't know that in the State Department, that's what I'm asking the Minister. It would all be so well controlled, so we were assured. But how and by whom? Mr Van Dam has confirmed that his own checks have never been carried out. The information came from other countries and from so-called exporters. But who are these performers anyway? According to Harald Doornbos, Westerners could only operate with danger for their own lives in Syria unless they came to fight with them. But who exactly managed to report it? And how? What was the relationship of those performers with the warring parties? Is the coverage of last night in Nieuwsuur and today in Trouw true that it was about the American organisation Creative and the Turkish organisation Candor? Of course, the 22 recipients of the Dutch relief goods have declared by hand that they would not mount weapons on the supplied pick-up trucks. No, I'm not. But they wouldn't just run errands with it, either, would they? How naive can you be? You deliver supplies to groups engaged in armed combat. And that stuff is then used in one way or another in the context of that struggle. What is the essential difference between a pick-up truck with a machine gun mounted on it and a pick-up truck with eight heavily armed men in the loading bin? Can the Minister explain that? With the non-lethal aid, we were already balancing international law on the border, as Mr Nollkaemper made clear. According to the Ministry's lawyers, the legal risk was limited, but there was therefore a risk. And of course, because it's naive to assume that if you provide anything to combat groups, those goods will never be used militaryly. Surely no one can be surprised at last week's statement by various experts that in fact all the fighting groups have committed crimes against humanity? But just say it. Then everyone will understand that it happens in witch kettles like Syria. Can the Minister explain to the Chamber why he doesn't just admit it? Does he agree with us that in such cases there can never be watertight agreements? Mr. Chairman. Let's stop this kind of half-hearted support operation and let's not pretend we delivered a batch of wool to a knitting club in Damascus. Let's agree we'll never do it like this again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u171	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u172	Mr. Chairman. The revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw have caused a great deal of fuss. The Netherlands would have supported a terrorist group, organisations supported by the Netherlands would have committed gross human rights violations, and the Netherlands would have launched warnings from organisations such as Amnesty. We all knew that there were risks involved in this aid, in the Dutch aid. The Syria of 2015, as well as Syria of today, is an extremely complex area of conflict. At that time, the Syrian people were trapped between Assad's barrel bombs and chemical weapons on the one hand, and the barbarism of IS on the other. The international community was trapped between Russia's blocked Security Council on the one hand, and a great sense of urgency on the other. The risks of intervention have often been pointed out, and sometimes rightly so, but I also find Syria a sad example of what non-intervention can lead to. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the previous cabinet decided on non-lethal support. In doing so, the Cabinet took risks, namely risks that have been communicated both publicly and confidentially. But are all the risks communicated? And more importantly, has the Cabinet done everything it promised to reduce those risks through rigorous selection and monitoring? Those are the urgent questions that lie ahead today as far as my group is concerned. First of all, international law. The cabinet has been clear about the risks, but in all cabinet letters I have read nothing about international risks. The internal advice made public last night showed that those risks were indeed there. Can the Minister therefore explain why these risk assessments were not shared with the Chamber at the time, how these assessments affected the decision-making process, why the external international law adviser was not consulted and whether the cabinet found that the support provided by the Netherlands to Syrian groups had infringed international law? Mr. Chairman. Another risk associated with this is the violation of the EU's arms exports directive. The Netherlands, as former minister Zijlstra wrote, would never have delivered licensed goods to groups. I ask the Minister why he considers the following items delivered not to be subject to authorisation and whether there is a relationship to Article ML6a of the EU Military List. One, six counter-IED pick-up trucks and two regular pick-ups with a attachment point for weapons, namely the iron rods, ML6, and I refer to note 2c.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u173	My question concerns the previous point. D66 is known to be committed to an international legal order based on that international law. It is also stated in our Constitution: we must promote the international legal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u175	Now, in the round table, but also earlier, the external international counsellor has said that borders have been sought and that international law has most probably been violated. Like Carla Del Ponte, who was investigating war crimes in Syria on behalf of the UN Human Rights Council. However, that advice was not requested. I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma whether he shares my view that it is necessary to restore that, by definition, the international consultant should be able to provide unsolicited advice. And two, does he also share my view that it is necessary to determine whether or not international law has been violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u176	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I can make it very brief by answering both questions with yes. I would like to explain it a little bit more. I think it is very important that I come to that, but I can also take it with me now that the external international legal adviser finds that the international legal advisory system, as devised by the Davids Committee, has not worked properly in this case. My question to this Minister would be whether he agrees. My own observation would be that there is room for improvement. As far as I am concerned, this can be done in two ways. On the one hand, by giving back to the international consultant the opportunity to give unsolicited advice, but that does mean that he should get another contract. Because I remember him saying in the hearing that the number of days he can spend a year on this would not otherwise be sufficient. The second thing I can imagine, and I am actually charmed about it myself, is that the Chamber can ask the external consultant for international advice. But then you should take a good look at the number of seats required for such an application. That is a majority now, and I can imagine that as a Chamber we can say that it can also be done by a minority, because that opinion can be so heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u177	That's good to hear. Let me repeat my second question: does Mr Sjoerdsma support our request to investigate whether the NLA programme has indeed infringed international law? I say this and I ask this, again, because I know that you also attach great importance to the international legal order and there are all kinds of noises like that of Mr Colijn, who says 'well, if it comes out, we can put that international law aside'. Mr Koopmans is also in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u178	I think Mrs Karabulut can find the comfort she's looking for in one of those questions I just asked. I asked whether the cabinet considered that the support given to Syria by the Netherlands was indeed in breach of international law. I assume that's the same question that Mrs Karabulut wants to ask. I would also like to ask how the cabinet is looking at something that the international legal adviser wrote in 2013, because that is also an important question. He then wrote it understandable to find that the principle of non-intervention should be stretched something, given the practice. He himself said: I regret that this has not been followed up in the development of law. I get that a little bit. Especially in the situation of Syria in 2015 I sometimes had the idea that law was clashing very hard in practice. That was sometimes hard on the people on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u179	Sure. But justice is justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u180	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u181	That's what we think of the rule of law, so why shouldn't we think of it internationally? Only my question was something else. Because the Minister's failure to release the internal opinions is one thing. However, the Minister did not ask for an external opinion either. I believe that, for the sake of truth, we should at least know whether, in this particular case, with this particular programme, it has happened within international law or not. This, in part, with a view to the future. Is the D66 group also in favour of finding out that truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u182	I think I just answered that question, unless I'm wrong. I said yes to that. I think it is very important for the cabinet to answer the question whether we, as a state, as the Netherlands, have remained within international law. That is a question which I believe I have heard from all my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u183	You made a comment about Mr Koopmans and I suspect that Mr Koopmans feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u184	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I would like to put a question to Mr Sjoerdsma, but I shall first return to Mrs Karabulut's point. I would have said to the VVD that international law doesn't matter to us, or anything like that. Those are, of course, just reprehensible words. Let's not waste any more words on that, except it's bullshit. Then there is the question to Mr Sjoerdsma. International law is, of course, very important. We have heard from Mr Nollkaemper in his other capacity that he has a certain vision, but that he had that vision without seeing the underlying facts, because he was not involved. We also know that there is internal legal advice from the Ministry which is probably different from what Mr Nollkaemper said. So can it be that international law is interpreted in different ways by different people? Can I also remind Mr Sjoerdsma that we also have an advisory council on international law matters, which is also available to the Chamber? If we really take international law seriously, I say without looking at the benches obliquely behind me, should we not really look at what the different opinions are and what we can do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u185	In my opinion, Mr Nollkaemper said in his capacity as a professor at the hearing that there are quite some elements that see the principle of non-intervention on which lawyers can think differently. By the way, I'm used to lawyers thinking differently about different things; that's how it works. It is not a question of whether or not there are more organisations and whether or not the CAVV is also a beautiful organisation that we can use, because the answer is yes. The point is that the Davids Committee made recommendations to prevent what happened in Iraq at the time. One of these recommendations included the creation of such a function. We have that position now. I think it's important that we don't take that position too fast. If I may turn the mirror: I hope Mr Koopmans agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u186	I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that we should take international law seriously, that we should therefore look seriously at the different views on a case-by-case basis, and that we should therefore not assume one truth that one person has, certainly not one person who says: I have not seen all the facts. I think that is exactly what Mr Sjoerdsma is saying, so I have no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u187	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u188	Mr President, thank you. Of course, I do not know to what extent Mr Nollkaemper and the internal international legal experts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agree. I should like to point out that in the opinions published yesterday, I read warnings that are very similar to what Mr Nollkaemper warned us about. So I am not yet convinced that these internal opinions would provide in advance for this programme to fall within international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u189	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u190	Then there is the selection of groups. Real risks had to be reduced by strict selection criteria. The cabinet has promised to only support groups that stood for inclusive politics, who did not cooperate with extremist organisations, who do not commit human rights violations and who comply with the law of war. The first selection would take place by allies and after that additional selection would take place by the Netherlands itself. In the answers to the actual questions, I read that the Netherlands left part of the northern programme to an executive organisation and simply joined the United Kingdom for the southern programme. I find that remarkable, to say the least, given the repeated guarantees. What was the American and British selection? Is it true that the Netherlands has not "fattened" all the groups supported by the Netherlands? Was the Dutch information position at all such that we could make that selection ourselves? Can the Minister confirm whether the groups supported by the Netherlands met all the selection criteria at the outset? I also ask this because some of the groups that have now come out in the open have already mentioned this; call a Sultan Murad Brigade "in advance" there were also indications that they would have caused very serious abuses. Mr Omtzigt and colleague Voordewind mentioned all the homemade movies. I'd also like to look forward to better evidence than those videos that they wouldn't be involved in spying on that residential area. Then monitoring, my third point. Good monitoring was needed to reduce the risks. I see Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u191	So do I, but perhaps you could finish this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u192	Yeah, you can. Good monitoring was also a promise to reduce those risks. Good monitoring is partly about the results. I would also like to ask about the results. When I read the answers in this way, I also see that groups supported by the Netherlands have been able to reduce IS in several places. That too is an important signal. How did that battle progress? How'd that go? The other side of the coin I'm just asking as a question. Has the Dutch support also been used to take Afrin away from the Kurds? Has the Dutch aid contributed to the recruitment of child soldiers? Then I come to the monitoring: how did the external evaluation assess the monitoring systems? When has anything been done with the results of monitoring? How often has it been established that groups no longer met the criteria? Colleague Van Ojik said: I'll find a conversation a bit soft. I have to be honest, I agree. How often has Dutch aid not stopped after human rights violations? (NL) Mr President, all in all. It is a difficult debate today, not least because we are paddling between public and state secret information. I think it is certain that this will have to be changed if we want to consider this again in the future. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees it. In what way can we best learn lessons from this case, from what has happened, and how can we do better in the future to prevent this kind of thing? Mr President, I see Mrs Karabulut again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u193	Yes. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u194	In any case, I am pleased to hear that D66 wants to know all the facts about what has emerged by Nieuwsuur and Trouw. But there are 16 other groups supported, so-called "moderate groups." Do you agree with me that we should also find out the truth about these groups, just because, for example, the Netherlands, including Minister Kaag, is committed internationally to prosecuting war criminals, human rights criminals? Do you think that we should also know from those 16 other groups whether that possible human rights violation or much worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u195	I'm gonna split the answer. If the question is whether the government should disclose which other groups have been supported, my answer will be no. That'll be no, also because of my experiences in Afghanistan with how it works if you get to know who you're working with. That means you're painting a target on the back of not only people who have participated in those groups, but also often of their families, their wives and their children. I don't want to. But if Mrs Karabulut asks me whether the cabinet should be very clear today about what happened, what went wrong and on what scale, then of course it is yes. I hope that we can take that off in this debate today, and if not, I think I have some ideas for getting ahead with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u196	Of course, I'm not interested in names and numbers and individuals. Mr Sjoerdsma is well aware of that. Some of these groups may have helped to kill Syrians, innocent Syrians. That's serious. That's a violation of war law. These are human rights violations. In the international context, we are proud of the Minister, and the Minister for OS is also proud that we take this seriously. I am therefore of the opinion that I hope you will support me in saying that we also need to know the truth about the 16 other groups, or indeed those harsh criteria have been violated there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u197	Yes. I also had the feeling that I have already said this, but I would also like to put the question back. Because if Mrs Karabulut wants to know the answer to that question, she must also take everything. Some of the things that Mrs Karabulut is asking for today may also be read, but then you should be prepared to take confidential information as well. Then you should also be willing to take state-secret information. It is really essential, I would say, that the cabinet responds fully to this, but also that we are fully reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u198	Mr Sjoerdsma has clearly read himself. Well, can he tell us anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u199	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u200	Have war crimes been committed? So what can I do with that? I am concerned about our parliamentary control and public accountability and whether or not we support such programmes in the future. Imagine that out of those 16 other groups, one, two or perhaps sixteen have contributed to the facts that have now emerged from the media. Does Mr Sjoerdsma not want to know so that we can act in the future and, above all, that these criminals can also be tried?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u201	I have the feeling that Mrs Karabulut would very much like to disagree with me, but I think we agree. Every human rights violation in Syria was too much. Any human rights violation potentially committed by a group supported by the Netherlands is painful. I would like to say, however, that that is where Mrs Karabulut and I differ, that the risks on these matters have been outlined by the previous cabinet. The risks of such cases have been explained. What matters today is not that those risks should never have led to anything terrible. The point is that the cabinet should have done everything possible to minimise these risks. Small as it is possible in this difficult situation, where on the one hand you have Assad with barrel bombs, on the other hand IS and in between a limited number of groups. That's the lesson we need to learn. And that does indeed mean that I agree with you, Mrs Karabulut, that it must be clear what this programme has produced, on the positive side but certainly also, given the revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw, on the negative side. We can't look away from that. I couldn't agree more. But we must not say categorically: then we do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u202	I'm gonna keep going at this point. Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 actually says here: a number of things have gone wrong, and we need to learn from that in order not to do it this way in future. How does he judge the fact that, as a country, as a cabinet, as a ruler, we have a responsibility in that regard, namely the responsibility that we have shared in facilitating terrorist groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u203	Any facilitation of terrorist groups is not only against me but also against the principles of the Dutch rule of law, of the Dutch Constitution, of everything that Dutch society stands for. Any human rights violation is so far removed from everyone who sits in this room that it is almost impossible to imagine that you would do so, yet people still matter. It's very difficult for me and, uh, how shall I put it? It is almost unacceptable that it should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u204	I fully share that with Mr Sjoerdsma. Yeah, it's hard. You're wondering, how the hell did this happen? I share that indignation and I also share the difficulty of continuing with it. But then I think it is up to us, too, to draw conclusions on this. I think it is wonderful and I fully support Mr Sjoerdsma's words, but the question is: what now? As far as I am concerned, that should not be as non-binding as 'we must learn lessons for the future'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u205	I do not know what Mr Kuzu means by "non-binding." I am very curious to see what he is proposing and what consequences he intends to draw. He just had the chance, and he didn't put it down. I think, and perhaps I should have mentioned this in the first part of my reply, that the matters on the table have rightly caused a great deal of fuss, but that today it is a matter for the cabinet to decide what has actually happened, where the Netherlands has been involved and what consequences it must have. I think it is really important that we take that step in the process. I would also like to say to Mr Kuzu, in view of what Mr Voordewind added to him, that it is very difficult to be consistent in these matters. I think it is consistent, especially in Syria in 2015, to see if you could somehow support the moderate forces there. I think it is consistent to always stand before international law. I have seen a lot of criticism today about parliamentary support programmes: you would support Erdogan, the SP and Mr Voordewind de YPG. And that's how none of us are left with clean hands. I do not think that this debate should go on in this respect. The debate must be about what the Netherlands can do in such complex situations, in war situations, to relieve people's suffering, within the core of international law. That's a huge challenge, and you can't deal with it if you know that nothing should ever go wrong. That's the complicated and painful thing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u206	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u207	Again, I understand the struggle. I had that feeling in 2015 too: we must not allow Assad to gain ground and we must ensure that IS is combated. In retrospect, we see that our support, in the current conflict situation in Syria, falls into the wrong hands. Then the only logical consequence should be that we shouldn't do that anymore, that we should just stop doing that? In this kind of misunderstanding, where the support provided and coughed up by the Dutch taxpayer, especially in those difficult years of crisis, amounts to 25 million, but that is quite a bit of money, while on the other hand our defence personnel are not getting any stuff. I think that the only consequence can be: let us stop doing that, let us not do that anymore. We're doing 61 of them around the world right now. This will also be the subject of a debate shortly. Does Mr Sjoerdsma think we should stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u208	These are debates that I have often had with Mr Kuzu. When I listen to his foreign policy and what his foreign policy can do, it is mainly about what the Netherlands is no longer allowed to do. In its foreign policy, the Netherlands cannot address Putin on abuses. Nor does Erdogan, as Mr Voordewind rightly pointed out. The Netherlands could no longer support human rights organisations, because that is interference. The Netherlands should never participate in military missions again. I tell you, Mr Kuzu, what the Netherlands has in the Constitution is the promotion of the international legal order. That's what makes this so important. That's what makes this so painful. If this did not happen within international law, it would make this all the more painful. But it is also part of the international legal order that we protect vulnerable citizens. You can remove that dilemma by saying that we should never do that again, we should not think about it anymore; I have already finished the conclusions. My questions to this minister today are about the promises made by the cabinet in terms of selection and monitoring, because those promises should have made the risks manageable, and the question is whether that has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u209	A brief response, because you've been addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u210	However difficult and difficult it may be, promoting the international legal order is not done by facilitating terrorist organisations, and that is what has happened. That's what happened. When it comes to DENK's commitment to foreign policy, which is: let's do what we do best. And what is the Netherlands traditionally good at? We are good at conflict prevention. We're good at reconstruction. We're not good at war. We are not good at having a complex, complex situation in which all kinds of groups are equipped with equipment, where people slaughter each other and shoot each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u211	You've made your point, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u212	This should be the focus of Dutch foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u213	One of the conclusions of this debate may well be that the Netherlands is unable to do something complex as non-lethal aid. It may well be one of the conclusions, but I think it is a little too early to draw that conclusion before the cabinet answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u214	Well, I guess you'd better wait and see. Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u215	Mr. Chairman. It's 2015. The Syrian people are being attacked by evil from all sides. Assad kills his own people. Chemical weapons are being deployed. Hospitals, schools, nothing's safe. And in the meantime, there's ISIS. Barbary throughout the country, terrorist attacks are being prepared and carried out, not only in the Middle East, but also near home in Europe. Anyone who feels that he is cornered by evil knows that there is no such simple thing as good and evil, knows that there are no easy solutions and that every choice is by definition complicated. We've all felt that. All the parties in the Chamber have struggled with the question: what should we do, what can we do to help the Syrian people? Should we join the bombing? Should we support ground troops? Should we support the moderate opposition with non-lethal support? Should we arm the YPG? Or should we do nothing at all, as some parties have suggested? But the dilemma is perhaps best outlined by former diplomat Koos van Dam. He said: if you want to keep your hands completely clean, you should have kept your hands completely separate. He said, "But even if you're completely sidelined, you don't keep your hands clean." That is the dilemma, and this may well reflect how we have all had it intricately. That it was complicated, my party felt it, too. We have had a long and careful debate on this and we have finally chosen to help the Syrian people on a number of fronts. And yes, we have also chosen to support the cabinet's efforts to provide non-lethal support. We have chosen to do so, also in the context of an attempt to help moderate groups, by trying to give them a position in that complex field in which they had to operate. But we also did it to create safe areas, as far as possible, so that we could provide humanitarian aid. The latter was very much needed to meet the needs of the Syrian people and to help them to do so. Did we know that was a complex choice? Yeah, we knew that. Did we know that the people in the moderate opposition weren't all sacred beans? Yeah, we knew that, too. And did we know there were a lot of risks involved? Yes, we knew that, because the cabinet had pointed that out to us. Yet we deliberately chose to accept that non-lethal support and support that policy, because we did not want to leave the Syrian people alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u216	Mr Van Dam also says: 'Therefore attempts to overthrow the regime could be expected to be accompanied by massive bloodshed'. About regime change he says it would rather lead to the extension of the bloody war. Unfortunately, we have to note that the proxy war, which involves all kinds of countries, has indeed led to the extension of the bloody war. With the knowledge of today, would you say again: we have to do something, so we have to mix our military in this very complicated, complex civil war? Or would you say, with the knowledge of today, that perhaps that thought about regime change was not so very clever and should we have done everything possible to reach a political solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u217	The SP never chooses to interfere in anything. It's okay. But my party's in a different way. Every time a population, anywhere in the world, is in need, we see what we can do. Think of humanitarian aid, the fight against the use of chemical weapons, the deployment of F-16s. Those are choices we make. And we have now also chosen to go along with the support for non-lethal aid, precisely because we saw that the population was being massacred, precisely because we saw that the population was being hunted from all sides, and precisely because we knew that doing nothing is not an option. That is why we have expressed that support, and I therefore still support that decision. At the same time, we should not talk about a regime change. We shouldn't make it bigger, but we shouldn't make it smaller than it is. This was precisely intended to give the moderate opposition a position, but also to create, where possible, safe areas to provide humanitarian assistance there. That's something I think we both want. And it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u218	I am disappointed that Mrs Kuik refers to my party and pretends that we do not show international solidarity in any way and that we would never support military actions which meet a number of conditions and which are accompanied by a political solution. That's just not true. But I still miss an answer to my question. This is about the strategy. Mrs. Kuik says, "Don't make it bigger." But in the end, this adorable non-lethal assistance, with all kinds of fantastic Dutch criteria to get support here in the Chamber, is part of a larger strategy. And that strategy was indeed to get rid of Assad, with Turkey and the Gulf States arming jihadists for years. Mr Van Dam says it and others say it. Do you recognise, in retrospect, that this outside interference has eventually extended the bloody civil war in Syria, and that this should perhaps be reviewed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u219	I don't like you-bake. That is why I only outline how the SP is constantly in this kind of debate, and I respect that. That's one. The second point I have already outlined is: what is the context in which we decided in 2015 to proceed to non-lethal support on the advice of the cabinet? We didn't do that alone, by the way. We did that with a number of other countries. That was not meant to put in place a regime change as the Netherlands. We did that to give the moderate opposition a position. We did that because we were hoping that we could create safe areas to provide humanitarian aid. That's the context I'm sketching. Once again, in 2015, after a very difficult debate, in which we have all sat down and weighed down, we made the decision to support it. And yes, I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u220	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u221	Then let me add one point. At the same time, of course, I will come back to that later on, and I think that we should learn lessons from that, that you should be critical of what was decided at the time, and I have some questions about the fatting procedure and the monitoring system. But those are all questions I can't answer. Minister Blok will have to do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u222	I am glad that Mrs Kuik acknowledges that this struggle is happening to everyone, but I also know the Labour Party as a realistic party, which also looks at the results. I do miss a little reflection on the current results and also on the action taken in Iraq and Libya, for example. What did that get us? Seventeen years of permanent war. That has not brought security and stability. Finally, I would like to ask Mrs Kuik about the concrete results of this concrete programme, namely that jihadists have been indirectly helped, that human rights violations have been committed and even war crimes that the Netherlands knew about since 2016. How does the Labour Party reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u223	To deal with that last point, these are very legitimate questions. I have those questions, too. I will put it to you later, and Minister Blok must give a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u224	I have a question for Mrs. Chicken. We were then in the opposition and Mrs Kikken and her colleague Michiel Servaes in the coalition. A number of us criticised the decision-making process at the time, in 2015. We thought we didn't know enough. We didn't know the groups either. Did the Labour Party now, looking back, find that it has been given too little information to support the NLA programme properly and knowingly as a parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u225	In all honesty, we have been extensively warned by the cabinet that there were risks too. That is why I say it was not an easy debate. It wasn't one debate either. Many debates and group meetings have been devoted to them. Some things you won't be able to do in public. On the other hand, the cabinet itself says: we should have done better supervision and monitoring could have done better. Those are also questions I have, which you have, and I will ask them to Minister Blok in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u226	We try not only to look back, but also forward: what lessons can we draw? Some of us say that the decision-making process should have been better, that we should have been better informed and that we should perhaps have a review framework. How does the Labour Party look back on that decision? Apart from whether it was right or wrong, how does the Labour Party look back on that decision? Does she also think that there should be a review framework and that Parliament should be more involved, whatever can be confidential if it cannot be made public? But are those kinds of lessons to be drawn for the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u227	You always have to learn and be critical. You are talking about an improved review framework. That seems to me to be a very relevant and justified question, which I would like to put to Minister Blok. How can we do this together and what role can Parliament play in this? So I support you in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u228	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u229	Finally, just out of curiosity. Again, we were not in the government, but did the Labour Party then receive more information than other parties in this house about who would have been supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u230	That seems hard to me, but I wasn't a spokesperson then, so I'm not going to answer on behalf of someone who was there then, and I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u231	Please continue. Do not respond to what is said outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u232	I won't, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I told you, did we think it would be easy? No. Did we know it was complex? Yes. Did we know there were risks? Yeah, we were thoroughly informed about that. However, we chose to do so, because we felt that we could not sit still and that we had to do whatever we could to help the Syrian people. At the same time, I said that this does not mean that we cannot be critical afterwards and that we should not learn lessons about then and also look forward. That is why I also have a number of questions for the Minister, which are not entirely coincidental with the many questions that my colleagues have already asked. Mr. Chairman. The first question is: how does the Minister look at the fatting procedure, whereby the Netherlands, in cooperation with the US and the United Kingdom, has also considered which groups could or could not be supported? And most importantly, how else could we have done that? What role should the Netherlands have played in this? What can the Minister say about how the monitoring of the various groups took place? What are the lessons to be learned about monitoring methods? Mr. Chairman. My third question is: what specific information has ultimately contributed to the withdrawal of non-lethal support for the moderate Syrian opposition? What time was that, exactly? A number of colleagues have already asked for this. How is the support given to the Syrian moderate opposition looked at in other countries? Have you been in contact with colleagues in office about the reports of Nieuwsuur and Trouw about the Dutch non-lethal support? Finally, Mr President. How does the Minister view Carla del Ponte's criticism that the Netherlands was aware through the UN Human Rights Council of the actions of the various combat groups? How does this relate to the praises of the United Nations Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura? Mr. Chairman. These are my questions for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u233	What does the PvdA actually think? We can ask the Minister the questions; fine. The Minister will come back to that later. But what does the PvdA think, for example, of the fact that Carla del Ponte indicates that the Netherlands was aware of what happened in Syria at the UN Human Rights Council? How does the PvdA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u234	Mrs Carla del Ponte stated in the hearing how she looks at it. I also went back into the debates. Questions were raised in the debate. Then there was no follow-up. So I really need to know from the Minister how he looks at that. And I think I have addressed the question of what I think we have promised support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u235	Well, the answer to the last question was: yes, I wasn't the spokesperson at the time, so I can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u236	No, no, no. That's what you need to be very specific about... I was asked if I had more information than others. I said: no, but I was not a spokesperson at the time, so I cannot answer on behalf of anyone else. That's just as specific to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u237	So what I really wanted to say is this. Carla del Ponte has made statements about this. You can easily park the question at Minister Blok. I think a lot of my colleagues have done the same. The question I have specifically for Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA is: what does the PvdA itself think about the fact that the UN Human Rights Council and the Netherlands were aware of what happened in Syria? I'd like you to make a judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u238	I asked the Minister how he assessed this criticism and what made it possible for the cabinet to act on it or not. I'm really gonna have to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u239	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u240	But what do you think? I suppose you have an opinion on that yourself, don't you? At least I hope so. I'm so curious about the PvdA's opinion, instead of parking it at the minister's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u241	What I think of that is that we need to learn lessons from it. We need to see how we can do the fatting procedure and the monitoring differently. But you cannot reverse a decision we made in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u242	Good. Thank you. Mrs Karabulut, finally, because you have just been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u243	Finally. We're here to find out the truth. We are standing here because a number of facts have been revealed by the media, not because we have had that information from the cabinet. Does Mrs Kuik share my view that we should find out the truth about all the support, groups and materials and therefore possible violations or good things in order to be able to draw those good lessons for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u244	Where violations have taken place: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u245	So if, after hearing the Minister, we do not have enough answers, then do you support the idea of an extensive and profound investigation into the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u246	We're looking at Block. Then we're gonna get back together...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u247	Blok is the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u248	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. We're looking at Minister Blok. We're waiting for his answers. Then I'll talk to you again about what's necessary after that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u249	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u250	Thank you, Madam President. If you can choose between Al Qaeda and Assad, what would you choose? That is the question I have put to several spokesmen today. And none of the people I asked came up with a clear answer. On the contrary: they fled in idealistic reflections on human rights, and said that we should never lose sight of the ideals, that at the start of the struggle you did have all kinds of moderate groups, whatever that may mean, and that the Netherlands should continue to fight for a "better world." That is all very well, but we have seen that when Assad was at its weakest, partly because of the active Dutch attempts to destabilise his government, the country was overrun by extremist Islamists. We have seen this not only in Syria, but also in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Egypt. Everywhere the autocratic rulers or regimes were driven away, extremist Islamist regimes arose. I think it is important that none of the spokesmen here want to be clear about the real choice that lies ahead, rather than the idealistic choices that we would like in an ideal world. For I think it shows the unwillingness in general of this Chamber to face reality. No one argues that Assad is a model of democratic values. No one argues that it's fantastic that the world is the way it is. But he was and is the only option for a somewhat ordered regime in Syria, which has been engaged in a terrible war for years now, including by the Western and also Dutch support for rebels and extremists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u251	I hear Mr Baudet, I think, say 'a somewhat ordered regime in Syria'. I just want to ask Mr Baudet if he is aware that there are probably more than half a million deaths in Syria at the moment and that millions of Syrians have fled their country. And of course there is also ISIS, which has done horrible things. Is Mr Baudet aware that all this has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u252	The answer to this question is in the affirmative: I am aware of it. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u253	And if that's the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u254	He wasn't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u255	Yeah, I think I was still working on my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u256	Yes, please continue. Then Mr Koopmans will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u257	I just think that a very large part of that war and of those victims is the result of the active undermining of the Assad regime by, among other things, the West. The West has been working since 2005, 2006 to weaken Assad's regime in many ways. At some point, you're gonna have a conflict that's gonna get worse and worse. We encourage all kinds of groups that are weakening Assad ever more. Of course that war will go on. That's terrible. That's also been mentioned several times here. Because, among other things, the Netherlands has supported all kinds of groups, this war keeps going on and on. I don't think Assad is a dream leader of any country, but my point is always: if you don't have a realistic alternative, you will only make the situation worse if you destabilize the existing order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u258	I note that Mr Baudet says: Mr Assad brings some order. He combines this with the knowledge that there are more than half a million deaths in Syria and I don't know how many millions of refugees there are. As experts at the round table said, at least 80% of these deaths are dead as a result of Mr Assad, i.e. by the regime that Mr Baudet says is bringing about a degree of order. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u259	That seems to me to be a series of positions, some of which you can dispute more or less, but I would add one very important thing. I acknowledge that there is a war in Syria, and I acknowledge that there have been many casualties. You can think different about that 80%, by the way. There are also people who say it's different. I do not think the number of deaths is necessarily an indication for those who are worse or better. That is a very clear point. You can't say that 1% more people died on one side, so we have to support them. No, a war is terrible, and killings that fall are terrible. But you have to ask yourself how we're getting the fastest chance of getting an ordered situation back. The position of Mr Koopmans and some others here, as we have heard in the debate today, is that we continue to support all kinds of groups that want an alternative to Assad. I think this is counterproductive. I guess you'll prolong the war and not shorten it. That is where the difference of opinion lies, and that is where this difference of position arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u260	Just out of curiosity. Mr Baudet had an intellectual discussion on order. I hear that as a criterion Mr Baudet uses when you should or should not have to intervene. North Korea is one of those countries where it is very well organized. Afghanistan was fairly well organized among the Taliban. The Taliban kept Al Qaeda hidden after 9/11. Are there not situations where you say that, despite the order, the UN is right to carry out missions to support the other side, for example in the case of human rights violations, genocide and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u261	I don't think it's possible to say this in abstracto forever, for all situations and for every mission. I note that the situation in Afghanistan has not clearly improved after the attempt to expel the Taliban. I note that the situation in Iraq has certainly not improved following the expulsion of Saddam Hussein's regime. I note that the situation in Libya has led to total anarchy. So it's all good to say that we want a better world, that we want a regime change and that we want human rights, but you have to look at the concrete effect it has. If you make the situation worse, more chaotic and if you are engaged in perpetuating a war, then you must change position because otherwise it is not wise. I would add the fact that many millions of refugees are coming to Europe, which also leads to incredible problems for us. So it is not only there that we create problems but also here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u262	So if a government commits genocide on its own people, then Mr Baudet says: well, better a well-known dictator who violates human rights than an unknown and chaotic situation? Is that about the line you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u263	No, this is a sign of the naivety or alienity with which Mr Voordewind wants to talk about world problems. In an abstract sense: if a genocide happens anywhere, do we always have to do X, Y or Z? I don't think you can talk about foreign policy that way. You need to look at the situation. If there is a conflict involving deaths, you will have to ask yourself whether you can make the situation better and, if so, how. The most important thing is that you have an alternative to the existing order you want to overthrow. Because we have always seen this: bombing a regime without any idea of what should replace it leads to very serious problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u264	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u265	We can make it concrete. We have supported a mission in Mali, which is now being phased out, where the jihadists moved to the capital and where a flow of refugees was threatened. Did Mr. Baudet support that mission at the time, and will he say so here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u266	I think that mission started before I was in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u267	Do you support that mission now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u268	I have great doubts about our presence in Mali.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u269	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u270	In my view, therefore, there is great naivety in the debate on Syria, a great idealism and little realism. This also applies to the groups that presented themselves as moderate. That was accepted without a hitch. "Oh, they present themselves as moderate, then it will be so, and then they will speak the truth." And in the meantime, they are guilty of recruiting child soldiers and there are Sharia courts and killings. Infinitely naive of the government and the Chamber to think you're going to bring democracy to such a complicated country. How many times have we seen this go wrong? Why not learn from the mistakes that are always made? I mentioned Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. Same pattern over and over again. What a naivety to think that through forms and transfer notes in a civil war you can regulate who uses which Toyotas. Otherwise, if you had sent a notary along with you, it's a thought that comes up when you see how this war was supposed to be waged by managers and consultants from an agency in The Hague. But it's not just naivety, it's also cynicism. Cynicism on the government's side, which, as has become clear in recent revelations, knew it wasn't right. Rutte II and Rutte III have supported numerous organisations and groups directly or indirectly related to ISIS and Al-Qaeda. Those were organizations like Jabhat al-Shamiya and the Sultan Murad Brigade. In 2017, that support was renewed and extended. The Dutch government supported no less than 22 different groups in Syria. 22 different groups! Why did people go on knowing it wasn't right? It was known that there were court executions, that, as I mentioned, child soldiers were recruited, that there were Sharia courts and that villages were being attacked. What interests were involved here? Was it pure incompetence, or did it also have the ambition to participate internationally? Maybe that's how one could create a job for Koenders in the first place and then maybe for a VVD or multiple VVDs? That is what is happening in international politics. This is how you do it: participate in international projects and then create a position for one of your partymates. And this is what I ask Minister Blok. What was the feedback from the operators on the ground at the time? What has been done with this feedback? Has the policy been adapted to this or not? According to Elsevier, a man who was active at Jabhat al-Shamiya is now being prosecuted by the prosecution for participating in a criminal organization for a terrorist purpose. He was active for this organization in 2015, while Bert Koenders not long afterwards provided hundreds of Toyotas to the same group. Isn't there also, could you ask yourself, government support for a criminal organization for a terrorist purpose? Isn't there a criminal offense, as attorney Knoops suggested? Or is Bert Koenders above the law? Doesn't that lead to legal inequality? Does it not lead to the impossibility of bringing all kinds of Syrians to justice if it turns out that the Netherlands supported the same organisations that we call 'criminal organisations'? In the United Kingdom, this has already caused major problems. In any event, the actions of the Dutch government have strengthened Al-Qaeda, including the threat of terror in Europe. By prolonging the war in Syria, a huge flow of refugees has started to flow into Europe, which we face every day. And the overall chaos in the Middle East has become bigger and bigger. How many deaths have been caused by this ill-thought-out, moralistic mischief? The government was wrong. The room was wrong. Let's never do this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u271	I've been seeing Mr Van Ojik at the interrupting microphone all along, but apparently he just wants to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u272	No, I'm gonna ask you something!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u273	Oh. Mr Baudet is already ready. But I will go first to Mr Kuzu, who also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u274	I have an informative question. Do I hear that Mr Baudet wants to have Minister Blok prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u275	First of all, I would like to ask Minister Blok whether he would like to have Mr Grapperhaus instruct the Public Prosecutor to carry out an investigation. If, in our view, he does not respond satisfactorily to this, then we are considering tabling a motion for a resolution on the matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u276	Good. Mr Van Ojik then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u277	Yeah, you've seen me standing there for a while, Mr. Chairman. I listen very carefully to Mr Baudet. As the last speaker in this debate, he actually says: my fellow speakers are naive and sometimes even cynical or moralistic. These are all negative qualifications. I listened to him very carefully. And if I sum it up correctly, this is the spokesman of a party or movement called "Forum for Democracy" - Forum for Democracy! It says in one sentence: my vision of foreign policy is that if a dictator gets the wind out of it, he can stay put. Is that actually the vision of the Forum for Democracy on foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u278	The crux of this question is, in my opinion, the use of the word'mag'. Then he'll have to stay put. I don't think verbs like "may" are relevant when we're talking about foreign policy. There's the difference. Of course, I prefer that there should be democracies everywhere in the world, as in Switzerland. In the Netherlands too, I hope that sooner or later we will have a functioning democracy again. But that does not mean that I think that it will simply support all kinds of groups which will then overthrow existing regimes or at least weaken them or which will somehow destabilise the situation there will have a positive effect. So I think when it comes to interference in other regimes, you should look at the consequences of policies and not the intentions of policies. I am not always, in principle, against any kind of interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u279	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for an hour, so until 8:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u280	We will continue with the debate on Dutch support for the armed opposition in Syria. We have arrived at the first term of the government. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have all recently been impressed by the news coverage of Nieuwsuur and Trouw about the non-lethal support provided in Syria. The way in which we are impressed, of course, also depends on the initial position of the various parties. Part of the Chamber was critical or opposed from the beginning. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Voordewind have indeed asked very sharp questions from the outset. They've been on top of that as an inspector. Another part of the Chamber has supported this aid and has also indicated in this debate: yes, we have supported it, but we do now have a number of questions. That's very understandable. And another part of the Chamber says: we were at all opposed to any kind of action in Syria and we are still opposed to it. In any case, I finished the programme this spring. This does not alter the fact that the information that has come up after an extensive round of answers to questions justifies a wide-ranging debate. All this in the light of the fact that we are also aware of the fact that a large number of speakers went on to say that the situation in the Syrian civil war during the course of the programme was still very complicated, with varying positions. I read back with interest what was said at the hearing. During the hearing, several experts indicated in different ways how they looked at the role played by groups there and the way in which support was provided. But the crucial question today is of course: has too much gone wrong in the implementation of programmes, as has been suggested, around the international mandate, about the fatting of the groups in advance, about the control of the behaviour of those groups during the support programme and in communication with the Chamber? I will answer those questions. Moreover, I also know that I am supported by the investigations that we have already started. I call the IOB report, which I also shared with the Chamber. It is important to realise that we are now looking back from 2018 to a period where debates and decisions have been made. A number of spokesmen responded. At that time, we all had the terrible images in mind of what was happening in Syria: the massive human rights violations, the fate of the Jezidis, the use of poison gas. At that time, ISIS still played a very important role. In the Netherlands and beyond, there was the very broad desire to stop the jihadism of IS. At that time there was also the broad shared desire to offer an alternative to the choice between either only IS or just Assad. Since at that time there was still a good area in the hands of the moderate opposition, it was not strange to try to keep that moderate opposition in the saddle so that there was another party at the negotiating table that could offer an alternative to those two extremes, IS or Assad. This support was therefore part of a broader Syria strategy that also included at that time: the military role played by the Netherlands in the fight against IS, the political role I have just outlined, the search for a broader solution to the Syrian conflict led by the United Nations, a humanitarian support line in which the Netherlands has been active and the gathering of evidence of the crimes committed by all parties in the Syrian conflict. I will go into the specific questions that have been asked in a moment, but the overarching question is, of course,: has there been an unreasonable amount of error? I think that the briefly summarized conclusion is again: it could have been better. I also indicated in the letter that the audit carried out and the ex ante assessment could have been carried out with a sharper focus. At the same time, I shall also illustrate this point in a moment. The groups tried to resist a advancing IS. They did that armed; that was known from the beginning. They also often fought against Assad in that position, but the primary purpose of these groups was to prevent the whole country from being overwhelmed by IS. Against this background, I will answer the questions in four chapters, which are actually chronological. First the questions that have been asked about the way decision-making has been made; then the questions that have been asked about the implementation; then the questions that concern specific allegations, and finally the questions that relate to the lessons learned and the way forward. I shall begin with the questions that have been asked about the way in which decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u282	Before you do that, I see Mrs Karabulut wants to interrupt. Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u283	I want to go back to the beginning of the Minister's story. He said the help stopped in the spring. Can the Minister tell us exactly when the aid has stopped and why the aid has stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u284	The aid has been phased out. You have been informed confidentially about some of them. This had to do with information that we had available about the way groups act in that part of Syria. In addition, we found that due to the changing conditions on the ground in Syria, it was no longer real to provide non-lethal support in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u285	Well, let's get a little more precise. When exactly did the Minister decide to stop the aid? And from what date was what aid stopped for what reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u286	In January you were informed confidentially about the cessation of part of the aid, and in April the last part of the aid was terminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u287	And when was that decision taken by the Minister and what was the reason for stopping that support from April?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u288	That's what I told you. At that time, the situation in Syria was such that effective, easily verifiable non-lethal support could no longer exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u289	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u290	To make it clear: that was not for the reason that one of those groups violated criteria as laid down by the Netherlands, by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u291	You have been informed of the reason for the termination in January. I have just informed you about the reason for April, but that is the same information you have already received in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u292	But, Mr. President, the Minister may...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u293	No, Mrs. Karabulut. I give you the floor. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is it correct and the Minister can answer yes or no that the aid was not stopped in March because of the violation of criteria laid down by the Minister to these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u295	The Minister cannot answer yes or no because there have been two stages of termination. You've been informed confidentially about one. That was another reason than the reason for the second termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u296	Mr. Chairman. I'm talking about the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u297	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u298	I gave you an answer on the second termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u299	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u300	The Minister starts his introduction with the argument that we should not think that it was wrong with all those fighting groups supported by the Dutch government. There are a few where it was wrong, but far from all of them, the Minister says. But, yeah, he says it, but we can't control it. We don't know who those groups are. We cannot engage the media to ask: can you also look at it, as you could have done with the other groups? That brings me to my question to the Minister. This means, in essence, that the government has already calculated by entering this route that if there were any questions about it, if there were any doubts as to whether that programme had been properly implemented and implemented, then the'secret' stamp would be placed on it and the Chamber would simply be out of play. Does the Minister think that's the right way to deal with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u301	Mr. Chairman. From the beginning, parts of this operation were classified. That wasn't a separate decision from me. I defend this with conviction, because I understand the reasons very well. The reasons have also been shared with the Chamber before. The first is that the disclosure of exactly which groups have received support puts the lives of people involved in those groups at risk. The second is agreements with allies and the third is involvement of intelligence services. There are three reasons why I cannot provide this information in public, but I have given it to the Chamber in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u302	Yeah, but we can't do anything with that whole story. I'm gonna ask the Minister again anyway. Do you think this is the right way for the executive government to deal with the people's representatives: simply putting us on the spot, informing us in confidence, but then shutting us down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u303	Behind Mr De Roon's question is the suggestion that it is very unique that a government can only handle certain information in confidence. It happens all the time. When the Chamber agrees to a military operation, an Article 100 operation, part of the operational information cannot be shared with the Chamber. There may be a confidential hearing on it, but it happens. The Chamber has a private committee for the intelligence and security services for a reason, because it shares information that cannot be shared in public. Unfortunately, but inevitably, this is sometimes necessary for the functioning of a state. Since I understand your questions very well, I have met you as far as possible by providing confidential information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u304	Finally. When it comes to intelligence and security operations, I agree. We have devised a system for the exchange of information and a review of what has been done by the People's Party. But we don't have that here. We don't have that at all in this case. Then I'm left with a question, which I'll tell the Minister. Is this the path that you have to take as a government when it comes to supporting armed opposition and aid in country X, so you're actually putting the Chamber out of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u305	Mr De Roon is now making a false statement. Mr De Roon says that the argument "I mentioned three of the involvement of intelligence services would be incorrect. There were intelligence agencies involved, and that calls for secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u306	It's a remarkable way of doing things. Mr De Roon's question is right as regards the classification of information as a secret. I had another question. Can the Minister rule out the link between the procedure as it has been and the information to the Chamber with the letter that the NLA programme is being stopped and the questions that Nieuwsuur and Trouw had put to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u307	This is an inimitable question. Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u308	Again, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u309	I'll do it again, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister exclude that the provision of information to the Chamber is totally separate from the question that Nieuwsuur and Trouw had in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u310	Can the Minister rule out the fact that the information provided to the Chamber is separate from Nieuwsuur? A very large proportion of the information has been provided for the Nieuwsuur broadcasts. There has been an extensive exchange of letters with the Chamber and there have been debates. I have just praised Mr Voordewind and Mr Omtzigt for their persistent search for the facts. A very large part of this took place for the Nieuwsuur broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u311	Doesn't the Minister find it remarkable that at a time when a broadcast, a reportage, follows Newsuur and a publication in Trouw, part of the information is classified as secret? People can't get to that. That is not what the controlling power in the media is about. That's where the part of the Chamber that chooses not to see that classified information that I'm one of, can't get to. Doesn't the Minister find that somewhat remarkable? I can see from his attitude that he finds it strange that this question is being asked, but it is a question that plays a lot of people. I therefore once again wonder whether there is a link between the questions that have been put to the Foreign Office and the way in which the Chamber has been informed and information has been declared secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u312	I do not find the question strange, but Mr De Roon had already asked the same question and I replied that I did not decide to explain the secret. I found a project, part of which was declared secret, and I understand the three reasons that have been used very well. I have also outlined this: risk to human lives, involvement of allies and involvement of intelligence services. I share those reasons, but the decision was made earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u313	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u314	Then I will deal with the questions that have been raised about decision-making. Mr Voordewind and Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the risks of international law were known at the start of delivery. The internal legal advice indeed outlines the risks of international law. On the basis of that internal advice, it was decided to mitigate the risks of international law by opting for that non-lethal aid. Several members asked whether international law had been violated by the NLA programme. As far as the government is concerned, the Netherlands has remained within the limits of international law with the NLA programme. That was also the commitment from the beginning and hence one of the criteria for groups supported was that they would commit themselves to the observance of humanitarian war law. And if war crimes or human rights violations have been committed by groups supported by the Netherlands, then it is absolutely right to do so. That is also an important reason why the Netherlands supports the evidence and prosecution mechanism for Syria. The suggestion, which has also been made, that the Netherlands would automatically be an accessory to such crimes, is not ours. I have also taken this back from the position of the external international advisor, where he states that international law does not have a clear rule of accessory. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Omtzigt asked why the external international advisor was not asked for advice. As the Chamber is aware, an opinion was made available by the external international advisor in 2013. That's also known to the Ministry. Internally, there has been repeated advice. I gave an overview of this yesterday in the letter. The combination of that existing opinion from 2013 and the internal opinions we have received since then provided a sufficiently clear picture of the international legal position. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Omtzigt asked whether the system as prescribed by the Davids Committee had worked properly. The Davids Committee advises to create a direct advisory line from the Legal Affairs Directorate to the Minister. That direct advice line exists, so there is no contradiction between Davids' advice and the current advice line to the Minister. The additional international advice asked why the possibility of unsolicited advice ended in 2015. In 2015, there was a contract extension and, in consultation with Mr Nollkaemper, it was decided to only advise. Soon, at the last chapter, about a look ahead and learned lessons, I would like to address the question of how, in my view, we can deal with international advice in the future. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the assessments of the risks of international law were shared with the Chamber at the time. In the letter of 7 April 2015, the risks were identified. But if I'm looking critically and wondering if this has really been tested very specifically, then I have to conclude that a lesson for the future is to become more systematic in the future, a bit similar to the Article 100 procedure for a military operation. Mr Van Ojik asked exactly how, on the basis of that legal opinion, the choice of civil means was made, because that was the way to avoid conflict with international law. This has been assessed on a case-by-case basis. In any case, it was always a question of non-licensing resources. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for that. All these resources were available on the civilian market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u315	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u316	Yes, I've been seeing a number of spokesmen on the Interrupt Microphone for some time, but the Minister is working on the international law side of the matter. I think he's still working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u317	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u318	Well, you'll have to wait a little longer. I would like to see whether the Minister has almost completed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u319	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u320	No. I ask the Minister if he has almost completed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u321	I have a few answers to international law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u322	Mr President, I would also like to make a point of order. There are so many aspects that the Minister now concludes, that it will be very complicated for us to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u323	Okay, then you'll have the opportunity to ask questions. Mr Voordewind first stood at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u324	Mr President, my question concerns international law, the first block. We have officials, and we have heard directors say at first: 'Room, be assured,' because once we find that human rights violations are being committed by the selected groups, we will stop that aid. We heard this at the round table from the Envoy Koos van Dam, and we heard an official say it here at the round table. Was that the cabinet's bet? So if there were serious human rights violations, would that be a reason to stop aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u325	I shall come back to the issue of implementation. Then it is very much a question of how it has been dealt with in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u326	But this is linked to international law. Because the moment you go with groups that violate human rights, that violate war law, you have a problem with international law. So this is linked together. Perhaps the Minister could then put forward an answer to that question. I would like to ask again: was the effort to stop aid at the time of serious human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u327	I'm going to browse my papers and see if I can bring up the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u328	I don't see how that's gonna work. Mr Voordewind, I would like to suggest that the Minister come back to that later. You're there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u329	You'll make it easier for me, because so many questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u330	Let me then rephrase the question and then come back to this later. The Minister just said that organisations involved in violations of war law could not be eligible for support. I just heard him say that. The Murad Brigade, which was responsible for the rocket attacks on the Sheikh Maqsoud district in February 2016, and itself acknowledges that she was involved in those attacks, with 80 deaths, received support from the Netherlands in the summer of that year. How do you explain the connection between the two?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u331	I have to answer this question in two ways. I, too, have seen that in the broadcasts and newspaper articles a number of groups of themselves said that they had received support. Because of the confidentiality I have previously appointed, I cannot publicly address the question of whether or not a group is supported. However, I can comment on the public information on the fires in Aleppo which Mr Voordewind is referring to. From public information we know that that Murad Brigade was at that time fighting on one side with the occupiers of Aleppo, on the other hand was attacked by Kurdish fighting groups and thus fired at Kurds at that time. That movie is a terrible picture. Whether such a very rough rocket hit a civilian target at the time, I can't judge. I can indicate, but I will deal with this in a moment on how we dealt with signals of human rights violations, how we dealt with these signals, without being able to indicate them exactly by group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u332	I understand that the Minister cannot indicate which organisations have been supported. My question is, perhaps a little more specific than, if he thought there was evidence at the time that the Murad Brigade was guilty of war crimes. There were reports from Amnesty International at the time. They were handed over to the Ministry. Later that year, the Chief Inspector of the UN Human Rights Council, Carla del Ponte, presented extensive reports, including the Murad Brigade. Has the Minister taken note of this and can he confirm that this brigade was involved in war crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u333	If there were any reports of human rights violations, the Amnesty reports and others were indeed known to the Cabinet, then action was taken at that time towards these groups. Sometimes those groups provided information on the basis of which it was found that the infringement in that case was not of such a nature as could have been suggested, for example a situation involving the recruitment of minors, i.e. child soldiers, but it was explained that these were people who were employed in kitchen functions. Where additional measures were needed, it was indicated that these actions were unacceptable and offered training. It is not so much the case again, you have also been given access to the allegations made by organisation, that we have one-on-one information: 'this group supported by us has committed precisely that human rights violation'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u334	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u335	We don't go into groups that were supported or not, but my question was about the Murad Brigade. There were reports on that. They were handed over to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They've taken note of that here. Mr Koenders, Minister at the time, himself responded to this in a debate. He said, "These are terrible accusations." Carla del Ponte explicitly mentioned this brigade. Is the Minister convinced that these were evidence that could lead to the conclusion that there were human rights violations and violations of humanitarian war law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u336	The film you're talking about is shocking, but it's not conclusive legal evidence. The reports have been used in the manner I have indicated to you. Action has been taken on this. I think it is clear that, given the very chaotic situation of civil war, and where I have no direct information that this group is explicitly involved in this human rights violation, I cannot rule out 100% of the fact that groups supported by the Netherlands have ever been involved in human rights violations. I do not have that overall view in an incontrovertible horrible situation like a civil war. I can only tell you that I do not have any one-on-one information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u337	I am going back to international law, because the Minister has made a clear division in his own right and I think he is now in international law. I'm gonna go back to that internal legal advice. It states: "With regard to non-lethal aid, it was indicated that this category could not be determined in advance whether it was compatible with international law. This should be specified in more detail in each section." We started with blankets and medicine. My guess is that they are the least problematic, although we have heard other opinions about this. At some point that has shifted to night vision goggles and pick-up trucks, pick-up trucks with a system on which you could mount weapons on it, the government said "hm, we didn't do that so wisely," but they are supplied with pedestals and anti-IED pick-up trucks. They're, like, to get in the front line to make sure you're not hit by an explosive. Have they been tested in accordance with the internal international law framework and have they been approved? That's question one. Question two: do these three goods fall under night vision, pick-up trucks on which things are mounted where you can mount weapons and anti-IED pick-up trucks under an arms export licence if you export them from the Netherlands to Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u338	On that last point, I indicated to Mr Sjoerdsma that it was not covered by the arms export licence. The other question I was just about to answer to Mr Van Ojik, but Mr Omtzigt already indicated the construction. Making cars available is not contrary to international law. They can be deployed in a peaceful way. At the time when we indeed found that iron bars were mounted on them, which in itself are not yet a weapon, but offer an opportunity to do so, we indicated that this cannot be done with Dutch money. But it is not the case that the supply of cars is immediately contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u339	The word "immediately" is put in between and that is crucial. We've seen the Sultan Murad Brigade, which we'll come back on later, bet these cars proudly. On Twitter they have posted photos of Toyota Hiluxen with which they drive through the province of Afrin and on which they have mounted weapons. So that could be Dutch weapons. There's no license plate on it anymore, but it could be. If they are deployed in that kind of struggle, is it contrary to international law or is it not contrary to international law, according to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u340	The question is whether the supply by the Netherlands is in conflict, and that supply is not in conflict. That you can eventually rebuild a car like this, we found, and where that threatened to be the issue with supplies delivered by us, we intervened. But the delivery itself is not in conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u341	So the answer to the question of whether it is contrary to international law goes to handing over the car keys. The moment they were handed over, we stopped checking, when it was said here to the Chamber that it was also about how they would be deployed. Then I wonder: if you deliver cars with a system that you can mount weapons on, or if you deliver cars so armored that they can capture explosives, then they are only deployed in one place, namely in the front line? Was it allowed, according to international law advice, to supply cars that you knew would be deployed in the front line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u342	Mr Omtzigt adds a second aspect, because he said: will there be no more checks? The supply agreements indicated: do not bet for war purposes. If that was noted, I have just given you an example. In this context, too, honesty commands me once again to say that in such a situation of civil war, very unclear with shifting roles, I cannot rule out the fact that the cars have been used for offensive purposes. It was a condition of delivery that this would not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u343	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u344	So we've had a paper reality here that we have rebels sign a note saying "you can have a car" on the one hand. That car is armored, so they can catch all kinds of explosions, or sit on that car things where you can put a machine gun or night vision or whatever. "But as long as you sign that you will not use it with soldiers in it, you will have them." So that's how on the one hand we create a paper reality when you can almost be sure in advance that they're just being used at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u345	Two comments on this point. At the time of the decision to grant non-lethal support, I have just outlined how the various ideas in the Chamber were... to groups that were fighting at that time, it was known that the risk was there. That is why a number of mitigating measures have been taken, which I indicated in a previous letter that I think the control section should have had a better lesson. I also honestly say that I cannot rule out the fact that such a car has indeed been used offensively, but that is contrary to the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u346	The Minister began by saying that perhaps the risks of international law should have been shared more explicitly with the Chamber. I would like to say that these are not shared. The Minister refers to the letter of April 2015, but the word "people's rights" is not mentioned in that letter. I have not only read back all the letters, but also all the debates. People's legal risks were simply not outlined by the previous cabinet. I really think that the Chamber should not ask for such risks, but that it should be up to the cabinet, the government, to outline those risks on its own. I would like to hear from this Minister whether he agrees. I would also like to hear from this minister whether he will become a standard practice in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u347	I have indicated that I think one of the lessons learned now is that this discussion, but also its control, has indeed been too implicit in the discussion with the Chamber. So my answer is: we are about to move forward at the look-seeing, and that this international review should take place more explicitly if we are to carry out a similar operation in the future and that it should be changed more explicitly with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u348	Then let's tighten that up a little bit when we look ahead later. Let me take up the point that Mr Omtzigt also pointed out. If you look at international law and at what the Minister just said, namely that, according to this minister, the cabinet remains within international law, that would be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u349	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u350	I put that in addition to the two vehicles that Mr Omtzigt just put forward here: the counter-IED pick-up trucks and the regular pick-up trucks with attachment points for weapons. In my first term, I asked the Minister to put them in addition to the EU Common Military List, specifically ML6.a. and ML6.a., note 2c, which I believe is covered by the authorisation requirement. The cabinet has previously written: we have not exported any goods, directly or indirectly, that is covered by the licence requirement. I would like to ask this Minister why, according to this Minister, these goods are not subject to licensing, because I believe they are covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u351	In the second term, I will come back to holding next to the list you mentioned. I already indicated that the information available to me indicates that they were not subject to authorisation, but we will keep them next to these lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u352	I do not want to say 'the same kind of problem', because the size and scale were very different at the time with former Minister Ploumen when it was about the export of regular trucks to Sudan. After a lot of pushing and pushing, I managed to get the EU directives adapted precisely on this point, so that these types of trucks could no longer be exported without a licence. That EU policy was adapted at that time. So I have some knowledge of how this arrangement works and how it has been established. I am very curious to see how this will be answered in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u353	Yes. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u354	The Minister says that he will come back to it later, but I think it is right that he should now indicate that in the future we might consider and discuss the international law aspects of interventions as we are discussing right from the start. But it is also good to look back at what has happened to international law in recent years. At the time the Minister took the decision, he received internal advice. That internal advice was actually: you cannot say anything in general about whether or not this kind of civil supply is contrary to international law; you have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. If we listen carefully to the international advisor, who has not been asked for advice on this matter, we will hear that he actually says something else. He says, and I quote from the document he has submitted, in a different capacity, but nevertheless: 'The nature of the goods with which armed actions are supported is not relevant here'. In other words, he says: whether you deliver food packages or pick-up trucks or whatever, it's about who you deliver it to and what happens to them. There seems to be a difference between what the cabinet has decided on the basis of internal international law advice and what the international law advisor now tells us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u355	That is why it is important what happens to it. That is the point that Mr Omtzigt also raised. I made the cut between what the receiving party was instructed to do, namely not to use it for the fight, and the control that had to take place there. I have indicated this: if I look at it now, I think it should have been more intensive. Honesty commands me to say that I cannot rule out the fact that equipment, and specifically those cars, have been used offensively in that complicated situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u356	But if I understand correctly what we heard at Mr Nollkaemper's hearing, and I believe that I am doing so, he says correctly: it is not necessarily relevant from an international legal point of view whether it is actually being used for what it can be used for; it is a matter of not being able to distinguish between civil property and military property from international law. That seems to be a different position than the position that the Minister has always taken, partly on the basis of his own internal advice, namely: as long as we let those people sign for the fact that they don't do ugly things with those pick-up trucks, we are in any case right in international law. Nollkaemper seems to me to say that that reasoning is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u357	But, of course, there is a transitional area. There are goods on which everyone will agree that they will not be used offensively, in the sphere of food and medicine. And then there's the middle category, which includes the type of cars we're talking about right now. We can indeed think of several applications, without formally falling under the dual-use category for arms exports policy. That is where the additional security was sought in the content of the agreement with the recipient party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u358	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u359	At the risk of repeating something: in my opinion, the essence of what Nollkaemper says is he says that literally the nature of the goods is irrelevant. The nature of the goods supported by armed actions is not relevant. Civil support for moderate armed groups is also support for armed groups, perhaps with food or medicines. That is why I think it is important to be very sharp on that. I'm not saying that Nollkaemper is right and the minister isn't, because I don't know. I haven't studied international law long enough. But it is a very fundamental difference to be able to judge whether or not what the Netherlands has done in recent years could be contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u360	But the statement that the supply of food and medicines would immediately be contrary to international law goes a long way. That is why I am drawing up an outline of the clear categories, the transitional area and the category of weapons, in which the Netherlands did not want to be involved at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u361	I think it is an important commitment from the Minister that he says: in the future, we will come up with a clear review framework in this respect if we want to make similar proposals. I would now like to build on Mr Van Ojik's point, because I agree with him that there is a difference in the legal assessment of whether or not this could be done. Maybe the pickup trucks are a good example. Eventually, these goods are not delivered to take the children to school, but as part of the struggle to overthrow the Assad regime and instead to help the moderate groups further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u362	I have to go into that last point, because that was said more, also by Mrs Karabulut. The goal was not to overthrow Assad. The goal was to provide support to moderate groups to defend the population, primarily against IS, but also against Assad. So I really need to take some corrective action, because that is also important for the international mandate. And indeed, a pick-up truck can be used wider than a food package. But then I come to the point that I also outlined to Mr Van Ojik: hence the additional conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u363	We will soon find ourselves in legal hair clippers, but I recognise the point that the Netherlands says very precisely: our objective is to only play that protective role. At the same time, these groups are committed to establishing their own power instead of the power of Assad and ISIS. What exactly can and cannot be done in this context is therefore very quickly becoming a legal wasp nest. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u364	It is for legal reasons, but also because of the chaos of civil war, a very complex journey. That is why I began by saying that there was a broad will in the Chamber to do something about human suffering. Then there really was a sense of how complicated it was. The government has indicated how it would try to push in the right direction with non-lethal support and a number of conditions. I will then say, also with the knowledge of today, that I understand the considerations of that time, but that it should have been sharper in a number of areas. Let's learn those lessons. I come to the question raised by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Staaij's party, on the subject of international law, whether a state has a duty to do something when a population is slaughtered in another state. This is again a very complicated international law issue of the Responsibility to Protect. In fact, at present the international communist opinio is that military intervention by other states requires an international legal basis, but that there can be a political responsibility for the international community and that there can only be a specific obligation if influence can be exercised to prevent genocide. This is the subject of a debate. Relevant, for example, is also what I informed the Chamber that in 2013 the European Union announced a regulation in which it called on states to provide non-lethal support. So while on the one hand we are being asked in good faith here and with great conviction whether there is a mandate, on the other hand we have an EU regulation. The EU is not just an organisation to provide non-lethal support. So that's part of the legal form Mr Stoffer asked for. Another relevant aspect is the following. We are right to have this debate at the cutting edge. The Netherlands actually did this in a team context with other countries. The question was also asked, I don't know by whom or who has been in contact with other countries about that question of international law. Officially, of course, the last week that contact has been there. Then again, the interesting thing is that in those other countries, which we know as proper state-of-the-art democracy, this debate is not conducted in this way. While international law is an excellent thing that goes beyond borders, the sharpness is present here along the line of "it's on the edge or over the edge," but that debate is not conducted in the United States or the United Kingdom. This is also relevant to the legal form requested by the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u365	This is how the debate is conducted in the Netherlands, because our Constitution states that we must promote the international legal order. Just as the Minister does not want Russia to support troops in Ukraine, international law does not allow it to intervene by providing armed or unarmed support to fighting groups fighting against the regime. That is why Mr Nollkaemper, the external international advisor, says that his view is that the Netherlands has gone too far in providing support to groups, using the goods in a way contrary to international law. Carla del Ponte, the UN researcher, says: "All parties in the conflict commit crimes. The Netherlands knows that the opposition is committing war crimes and since 2013 we have written in our reports that all war crimes are committed in the Syrian conflict." Does the Minister believe and does he maintain here that the Netherlands has operated under international law and, if so, what does he base this on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u366	I answered that question. I have indicated that, by the way we have provided the support, we have remained within the terms of international law. I have also indicated that I cannot rule out the involvement of groups supported by the Netherlands in human rights violations. Everyone was known to be warring groups. In such a bloody war where alliances can also change, you can't rule out that it happens with supervision. I have also indicated that I believe that any human rights violations, whether committed by people who have been supported by us or by other parties, should be prosecuted. Moreover, the Netherlands plays a very prominent role in the evidence bank that is in progress for Syria. We'll fund it. We also support its organisation. We also support the creation of a legal mechanism for Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u367	However, experts, such as Carla del Ponte, the UN Human Rights Council, say not the least, and the external international legal adviser, who the minister did not involve when he should have, that this is not possible and does not fall within international law. The Minister insists that it is. Can the Minister explain what he is basing that on? Is the Minister prepared to have this examined independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u368	I have already indicated where I base that on the interpretation. If I read back the hearing correctly, both Mrs Del Ponte and Mr Nollkaemper indicated in that hearing that they do not have enough specific information to make such a sharp assessment as Mrs Karabult is now making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u369	So the Minister is now saying that he's based his judgment on Mrs Del Ponte's statement at the hearing? I don't quite follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u370	I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u371	But what does the Minister say? What does he base his opinion on that international law has not been violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u372	I indicated that the Dutch government remained within the international mandate by filling in the supplies in such a way that they were non-lethal means and that where that was in the border area the cars we were talking about were subject to additional conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u373	Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u374	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dan niet anders dan concluderen ...]] Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u375	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u376	I have no choice but to conclude on the following points. One. The Minister didn't ask for the advice. Two. He is not prepared to release the internal opinions. Three. We note that international law has been violated in practice. And four. The Minister is asking again to believe him on his blue eyes. And I find that very painful on such an essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u377	Good. The conclusions are often really meant for the second term. Then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u378	To the list of 'absolute stupid ideas about Syria' I think we have just been able to add another one, namely the Minister's remark that it was completely unclear what would happen to the pick-up trucks, which are not by chance used by almost all armed rebel groups on earth to set up machine guns. He had no idea what would happen to them, because they might as well have been used for transporting food packages. Then why did the Netherlands choose to send out the Toyota pick-up trucks that are so suitable for terrorist activities, and not, for example, Volkswagentjes Golf, Volvos or, if necessary, a Chevrolet, with a nice trunk in which all those food packages could be neatly stored and well, and which would be unsuitable for that other purpose, namely the armed struggle? Can the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u379	Syria is a country with a very rudimentary infrastructure, where the type of family car Mr Baudet refers to could only drive a few kilometres. So the choice of a different type of car seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u380	Okay, different type of car. But why does it have to be a pick-up truck that is not only suitable for transport, but also for firing machine guns? Surely there is no reason for that if the purpose of these cars is to transport food packages? I can name enough cars that do not have an open back and are not a pick-up car, but that can ride on rougher terrain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u381	Then we'll have to walk through the auto-catalogue in mind. But the number of cars that can be transported at the same time and drive on unpaved roads or even without roads is also clear, as long as you do not want to get to the purely military trucks, which would clearly be contrary to the international mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u382	How about the Volkswagen Transporter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u383	We now really come in the atmosphere of surreptitious advertising: we are going to walk by car or that also...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u384	Well, no! This is very important...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u385	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Baudet, this is your last question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u386	This is very important, because I think this shows what is now increasingly evident from all these journalistic revelations: the government was not only aware of all the acts of terror that the groups that supported the Netherlands started, but the Dutch government also simply knew that the materials that were being transported to Syria or that were being delivered there were simply used for that purpose. And this whole story of "it was humanitarian stuff" is as leaky as a basket. This is also apparent from the fact that the most suitable car for terrorist activities was delivered. And don't come up with a story about food packages. Just admit that it was the Dutch government's strategy to overthrow Assad through the armed struggle. That failed. And now they're gonna have a sad story about food packages. That's totally unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u387	This very long speech by Mr Baudet contains a long line of inaccuracies. He has now switched from the type of car to the claim that the Dutch government would have deliberately and knowingly supported terrorist organisations with the aim of expelling Assad. That's just wrong. That is also what I mentioned today in my speech. In the situation that there was still a significant moderate opposition and both ISIS and Assad were advancing, the goal was to offer those groups the opportunity to defend themselves and their families. The goal was at the same time: to ensure that groups were available to take place at the negotiating table, the only place where you could achieve a truly sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u388	Then I'll go to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u389	Indeed, we just had the idea that it can only be done under international law if you have a note signed by the rebels that they do not use them in the fight. I think that can be more credible with food packages than with a certain type of Toyotas. But now a second thing came up, and I'll come back to that. The Netherlands says: we had no intention of overthrowing Assad. That could be. But does the Minister share the view that the Free Syrian Army was indeed aiming to overthrow Assad and establish another state in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u390	The Free Syrian Army was a bundling, an amalgamation of a large number of organizations with different goals. The fight against Assad was part of that. But the suggestion that the primary purpose of the Dutch support was to expel Assad, I reject it. The primary goal was to give the most moderate parties another chance in the situation as I outlined it, where Syria still had several parties that were more or less able to compete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u391	The Free Syrian Army was established to establish another government in Syria. So it may not be the purpose of the Netherlands, but the Netherlands explicitly supported a number of parties that were founded for a regime change in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u392	Again, the Dutch government has supported groups that in that chaotic, filthy civil war were relatively the most moderate parties protecting the population from the extremism of ISIS and the violence of Assad. I am not at all saying that those were clean parties that had targets that we take on one by one. I would just point out that in that palette and in the trade-offs that Chamber and Government shared in 2014 and 2015, these were the most moderate groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u393	But now we come to a second fiction. The first fiction was that the Toyotas would be used for civil services, indeed for transporting children or transporting food packages. The second fiction is that we thought they were allowed to fight Assad, but they were not allowed to overthrow him. But that's just fiction, isn't it? Because that Free Syrian Army wanted something else? We are only saying this because, according to the internal international law advice, this is a little more convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u394	The situation which the Netherlands, but also the international community, had in mind at the time, and which, moreover, would still be beautiful, is that under the leadership of the United Nations, negotiations would be opened between the various parties. That negotiating situation could not be created if you had only IS or IS affiliates and Assad. So in that palette, they chose to support these groups. Once again, I agree with Mr Omtzigt, which does not mean that these groups were clean and only had objectives to be praised. But then there was the balancing: otherwise there is no party left at the table for this desired political solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u395	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u396	Then there was a question from Mr De Roon, who has just come forward about the decision-making in the cabinet. How did it happen? There was a consultation between the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in December 2014. Then the factfinding mission was. And then there was decision-making on Article 100 letters, which always goes through the entire cabinet. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the first chapter of decision-making and to the implementation chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u397	I'd like to go back to those pick-up trucks Mr Omtzigt was talking about. In the summer of 2016 we received a letter from the government suggesting that the Netherlands would supply medical vehicles. There was no mention of pickup trucks at the time. We didn't find out until much later. That raises the question: why wasn't it said immediately that it was intended to deliver pick-up trucks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u398	Those pickup trucks weren't delivered until later in the journey. I have also pointed this out to Mr Van Ojik. It did indeed start with food and medicine, and only later the pick-up trucks were delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u399	Could the Minister answer the question whether Kurdish fighting groups with logistical equipment have also been supported in Syria? Are there any Kurdish fighting groups among the 22 organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u400	No. That is a discussion that has taken place in the Chamber and has also taken place here in the event of interruption. Part of the Chamber indicated that it was precisely the Kurdish fighting groups in Syria that wanted to support. The cabinet didn't choose that at the time. Kurdish fighting groups fought partly on the side of Assad. As regards Kurdish groups, there are also reports of human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u401	Can the Minister confirm or deny that Jabhat al-Shamiya has been supported by logistics equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u402	I do not make public announcements about supporting or not supporting groups. The Chamber has been informed confidentially about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u403	However, I just heard the Minister say something about Kurdish groups, which would not have been supported. Why does he want to make a statement about not supporting Kurdish groups, but not about Jabhat al-Shamiya?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u404	Because the debate in the Chamber has been so explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u405	Then I suggest you go to the next part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u406	Mr President, I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u407	Yes. On the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u408	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It wasn't the goal yet to overthrow Assad. But why does Minister Koenders say here in The Hague on 16 January 2016: hey, I want Assad here in The Hague; I want to get rid of it and I want him to go to jail? Was that government policy then? Or are we on the one hand creating a paper reality about cars that shouldn't be used, saying "we don't want to get rid of Assad," while on the other hand, in the time we give this support, we even publicly say that we want to get rid of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u409	Without me being able to trace that statement exactly, I would say that it is not very bad if a Dutch minister says that someone suspected of war crimes and crimes against humanity has to answer to the courts. This seems to me to be appropriate for a country that is also home to a number of important international courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u410	Syria is not even a party to the Treaty of Rome. So that is not part of the International Criminal Court. The chance that it is due to the UN Security Council is also zero, because of course, whatever happens, Russia will never say that Syria falls under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, as all parties there can be punished. But if you are now creating two realities, I ask the government. On the one hand, there is the reality of it: because we have to say it from our lawyers, we say that our goal was not to give support to get rid of Assad. On the other hand, we have the reality that we support parties set up to get rid of Assad. And we state in public lectures that we want to do so ourselves. Are we creating something here where, on the one hand, we say "we respect international law properly" and, on the other hand, we know that we simply don't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u411	I really do not follow Mr Omtzigt here. Among other things, Mr Assad is suspected of using poison gas. Then Mr Ommzigt should also agree with me that if you are suspected of this, you should answer to the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u412	I couldn't agree more. I think that Assad and a few more people in Syria should answer to the judge. I fear that there may still be people who have been supported by the Netherlands. But I note here that, on the one hand, a paper reality is being created about what the Toyotas were meant for and what the Free Syrian Army intended, namely not to overthrow Assad, and, on the other hand, there was the reality that we did not want to name, namely that they wanted to overthrow Assad and that they simply wanted to use the trucks and all other things on the battlefield. Why else did you think they were asking for these things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u413	I really think it is a big leap from the question of whether Assad should be brought to justice. Fortunately, we agree on the way in which the selection of equipment that has been delivered and of groups has been made. But again, I indicated that I fully understand why the decision was taken at the time, but that I really do think that some aspects of that decision-making and control should go differently in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u414	Mr Omtzigt, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u415	Then we go back to 2015. Koenders then underlined that the Syrian President must leave. That's what he says in 2015. I have it here: October 8, 2015. That's a few months after the start of the program. He is not talking about the judge at the time, but he wants to get rid of Assad, and that is what the Dutch government has been saying since 2013, because she no longer recognises Assad as a legitimate representative of the Syrian people and has recognised the opposition. Then it is the official goal of the Dutch government... I'm not gonna defend Assad here, no way, but that's the point, right? It is also the purpose of the warriors, but we are creating a paper reality besides that it was not a goal for the supply of goods, because it was not allowed by the lawyers. That's what we're doing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u416	I would like to be able to assess that statement of 2015 in its context and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u417	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u418	Apparently, that's a different verdict than bringing him to justice. I'd like to be able to interpret them properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u419	That's what the Minister will come back to, Mr. Ommzigt. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u420	There were two reasons not to provide the Syrian Democratic Forces with non-lethal assistance. One was human rights violations and two was that they were working with Assad's regime. Surely it was a condition for the troops in Syria to fight against Assad, as an alternative to Assad? Or is the Minister going to deny it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u421	I raised the question as to whether it was the Dutch Government's intention to overthrow the regime. The aim of the Dutch government in this support operation was to offer an alternative to Assad and IS. I have also pointed out to Mr Omtzigt that there were no groups in the limited spectrum of choice at the time that met all the criteria in all respects. So indeed, they not only fought against ISIS, but also against Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u422	Can the Minister be open and honest for once, for a change, and say that these groups were indeed supported internationally to get Assad out and that the story of the minister of the then cabinet was aimed at selling it inland? If it had been said that these are Islamist militias who in practice also cooperate with Al-Qaeda branches in Syria, this support would never have been promised and the Chamber and the Dutch people would never have agreed. Can the Minister be honest about that? Does he have any idea how a war works? That those pickup trucks and those military uniforms aren't used to water the flowers in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u423	That's a lot of questions. I indicated that the aim was to support groups that offered an alternative to Assad on the one hand and IS on the other, which at that time still had a significant part of the country under control. They were groups that protected themselves and their families against these two large-scale human rights violations. That group has been supported. That doesn't mean that this group is spotless, but it makes sense for you to support that group in order to prevent a final situation in which no moderate group can negotiate anymore. That is why it was decided to support that group. I have already indicated that there may be some lessons to be learned about the precise implementation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u424	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u425	Knowing that in 2013 jihadist groups were armed, from the Gulf States, from Turkey, to get Assad away, knowing that the international coalition also wanted that, a plan has been devised to send pick-up trucks to militias that were indeed part of a war, a dirty war. That is the last point I would like to make to the Minister. Does he recognise that Dutch supported groups themselves have been guilty of war crimes, including the pick-up trucks supplied by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u426	Mr President, I have answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u427	Yeah, I can tell there's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u428	I have indicated that there are no one-to-one situations in which you can say that a group supported by the Netherlands committed exactly that violation. I have indicated, however, that I cannot rule out the possibility that this has happened in such a complicated civil war.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u429	I see Mr Voordewind and I see Mr Baudet. You've just been there a few times. The Minister has set out exactly what subjects he is going to deal with. I note that a number of questions are being asked again and the answers are being repeated. I would like to conclude this section so that the Minister can move on to the implementation section. A brief question, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw that colleagues were coming for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u431	Yeah, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u432	Not that that may be an encouragement, but I'll be brief. The Minister has just said that the Free Syrian Army was intended to fight Assad. That was an observation. I've just been looking on the Internet. The purpose of the Free Syrian Army was to eliminate Assad. When I asked the people in the field, I got the same answer. Then how can the Minister rhyme that his goal of providing an alternative against ISIS, against the extremist groups of the Free Syrian Army, was seamlessly aligned with the objectives of the Free Syrian Army? They were right on top of each other. Has he not taken note of the objectives of the Free Syrian Army groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u433	I didn't say it was seamless. I said what the situation was in 2014-2015 when the decision-making took place. A moving IS with a much bigger position than it is now. Assad, who owned a smaller part of the country but kept a very bloody house there. And a much larger part of the country than now that was controlled by a number of more or less moderate groups, which I did not say fit seamlessly with the Dutch view on decent governance. On the contrary, I have just said that there was much to be said about this, but in that situation they were a party which I understand was then chosen to have a moderate party at the negotiating table, at least with the hope that there was then. But that doesn't mean they connect seamlessly or they're spotless. I really didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u434	The last question at this point, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u435	Perhaps I should put it another way: that the minister or the previous government entered into cooperation with objectives which may have been a paper reality, but which were not at all in line with the objectives of the groups that were supported. So how can it be said with open eyes that you yourself have an objective, knowing what the objectives of the groups you support are? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u436	Mr Voordewind focuses on one objective, which he is right about. But I would like to outline to you that there was a situation in which Syria was actually divided into three major warring parties, which were also further divided among themselves, and that in that situation not only was Mr Voordewind's argument, they were fighting Assad? But also the argument: did they fight against ISIS? I used to call that first, because that's what these people did. They fought against ISIS, like the Netherlands, also with the support of Mr Voordewind. They fought against ISIS and defended themselves and their families against the even worse alternatives of a very bloody Assad regime and a very bloody ISIS regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u437	Mr. Baudet, you've just been extended on this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u438	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u439	No, Mr. Baudet. You may ask one question. The Minister has now spoken eleven minutes with almost one and a half hours of interruptions. So one question. If you don't think that's enough, you can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u440	Can you explain why groups applying the Sharia have come through the strict selection criteria? How is that possible? In your answer to question 178 it says that the Sharia label says little about the degree of radicalisation. Is it the government's view that the Sharia label says little about the degree of radicalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u441	Good. Mr. Baudet, the Minister has indicated that he will return to that point of selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u442	Mr. Chairman. A reference to Sharia is common in the Arab world, for example in codes of conduct of countries such as Jordan and Tunisia, with which the Netherlands also cooperates. So Sharia is certainly not an ideal image of legislation for the Netherlands, but in other areas it is not an exclusion for cooperation. The pursuit of extreme jihadism is and it was precisely the parties that fought against by these organisations that we supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u443	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u444	Then I come to the questions that have been asked about implementation. Both Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Ojik asked whether the groups supported by the Netherlands met the selection criteria at the beginning of the selection process, in the case of fatting as it is called. Those were the three have been called 'No cooperation with extremist-jihadist groups', the pursuit of an inclusive political solution 'That is the negotiating table I have been talking about' and the commitment to war law. In addition, it was always examined whether there was sufficient presence in the field, whether they were also represented in the political process and whether they needed the kind of stuff that the Netherlands was willing to supply, so no weapons. On these grounds, a sub-group of 22 selected by allies, such as the United States, was selected to meet those criteria at that time. It was then checked in several ways. I've already indicated that it hasn't always been waterproof. Mr Voordewind asked whether the Netherlands, given the knowledge we have now, should not do that selection and screening entirely on its own rather than being dependent on, among other things, the United States and the United Kingdom and whether that is a lesson for the future. Again, the last chapter is lessons for the future. I think that control should be intensified. I think it would be very restrictive to say that all information must always come entirely from the Netherlands. Again, I draw the comparison with military action, where the Netherlands always operates in alliances and is therefore also dependent on information from allies. I think that if you do this kind of surgery, you would limit yourself very much if you were to say that everything should be 100% from your own Dutch source. The question of how moderate moderate groups were, has just been discussed in detail in the context of interruption. Then both Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind asked whether it was true that the Netherlands did not select all the supported groups themselves. It is true that groups have also been selected indirectly by the Netherlands. This indirectly concerned groups in which the British did the selection and indeed took on the controlling role for the Netherlands. Let me now turn to questions on human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u445	You have indicated that you would like to answer a number of questions in that execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u446	Certainly, but human rights are part of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u447	In fact, I would suggest that you complete that part of the implementation. Yes, Mr. Sjoerdsma, a point of order. I'm in charge of the order. However, I would suggest that the Minister conclude this section. Then you will have the opportunity to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u448	A member may make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u449	Yes, I know a member can make a point of order. But I also know that a point of order sometimes leads to a lot of discussion, so I really want to put that in order at your request, too. I would like to see how many questions the Minister still has to answer on this issue. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u450	Because much has changed in the event of interruption, the answer is getting shorter and shorter. I hope that gives you some hope, Mr. President. Because I have already said a number of things about human rights. It has been asked from several quarters whether the government was aware of the reports on human rights violations. My answer to that is: the government was aware of that. I cannot go public about what action we have taken per group, but action has been taken. I have just given an example in an interrupting debate of how we dealt with a report on minors. I also indicated that the termination in January was due to the manner in which the group concerned acted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u451	I'm going to see Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u452	... for a point of order, because Mrs Karabulut stood before an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u453	Go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u454	I would like to make the point, Mr President, that it would be good to go into the selection of groups, and to highlight that for a moment. Otherwise, things are gonna get mixed up around the program.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u455	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u456	I hear from Mrs Karabulut that I may speak of her first. Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. The Minister says that selection should have been more intensive. I would like to say that the cabinet has promised that 'an own fat procedure' would be carried out. This is just a quote. Now this minister says: in the south that was done indirectly. I would like to say that in the north this was also partly done indirectly, through an executive organisation. I would like to say that that promise has simply not been fulfilled. I ask the Minister: does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u457	Well, I can only confirm that some of the aid has also been granted indirectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u458	I think this is a bit of a point. Under international law, the Minister has just found that this information should have been shared with the Chamber. Here's a promise made that hasn't been honored. One of my questions was: is the information position such that the Netherlands can do that fatting itself? In fact, the Minister says indirectly: that information position was not such that we could do so. So a promise was made when the government knew it couldn't be kept. I ask the Minister if he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u459	I say: if I look back now, I see that the control should have been sharper at the beginning and during the period of time. I'm saying that because I don't think that control has gone sharply enough. I know this had to be done in a very chaotic situation, but I think it should have been more acute in such a very chaotic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u460	Sharper? I must say that in this case I think that is a euphemism. I say this because the Davids committee has always said the word'self-employed'. The Dutch government must always act on the basis of independent information. When I gave my support, I assumed that if there was "own fat," the Netherlands would also use its own information. So I assumed we wouldn't just be guided by American or British information. And I regret to conclude that we didn't have that independent information and that we didn't do that selection ourselves either, or we didn't do it mostly ourselves. If the Minister doesn't want to say it, I say it: I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u461	Nor can I say that there was never any independent information. I would like to point out that in a number of cases information from allies is relied upon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u462	I am asking about selection and human rights. Last week the Minister wrote to the Chamber that the Sultan Murad Brigade would not be involved in the shelling of the Kurdish district of Sheikh Maqsoud, killing more than 80 people. That is documented, these people are proud of it and this can be seen on their own YouTube channels. Has the Minister misinformed the Chamber on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u463	No, Mr. Chairman, the point of the Murad Brigade has just been discussed in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u464	Good. The Minister acknowledges that this group has been supported and that it has violated human rights. Can the Minister then comment on the next case, namely the Jabhat al-Shamiya movement? An extensive report by Amnesty International from 2016 shows that this movement is carrying out executions, kidnapping civilians and running Sharia courts where the death penalty is on apostasy. In 2016, Amnesty International warned the Minister several times. How come this group also got through the selection again and wasn't acting on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u465	Mrs Karabulut begins with two false statements. She starts by saying that I would or would not have supported a particular group. I have indicated from the outset that I do not publicly indicate which groups are supported or not supported. The Chamber has been informed confidentially about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u466	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u467	The hilarious thing about all this is whether it is not hilarious but simply too sad for words that these groups confirm that for the minister. They thank; thick thumbs, good relationships, good contacts, though remotely. But the fact is that in 2016 I really want an explanation for this has been discussed in the House of Representatives. I've had access to the mail exchange to the Ministry. The Minister and his predecessors have said time and time again: we monitor the harsh criteria that are being monitored. That doesn't seem to be the case. That help hasn't been stopped. Surely the Minister should agree with me that there should at least be openness about how this can be done. Since 2013, the United Nations has appointed all kinds of groups. How is this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u468	This is certainly a repeat of moves. I have indicated that I cannot go into specific groups, that there has been an act on the various observations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw, that the Chamber has also been informed about the way in which, but in general I can say that this varied from corrective talks to sometimes an explanation that gave a plausible explanation. But it's not like they didn't act on it. At the same time, I have also indicated that I cannot rule out the fact that groups supported by the Netherlands have committed crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u469	Still, let's go back to the phase of the selection, because we want to look back on that. In the letter of 26 September, as I recall, the Minister said that the monitoring was adequate but should have been sharper afterwards. Now he goes much further than in the letter and says: on second thought, the selection should perhaps have been made more sharper. He doesn't even say "maybe"; he says that the selection should have been sharper. That is an important observation. We now know that things have gone wrong with at least part of the 22 organisations selected at the time. Is that in his vision, now that he looks back, because we have not sufficiently well selected? Or is it because the process, which may of course have happened, has happened a number of things that we didn't know at the time of the selection, but which happened to us later in the process, which happened to us or how you would like to say it? I ask this because he is now saying very explicitly what he has not said in the letters so far, namely that the selection should have been made more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u470	At the beginning it was clear that it would be a very unclear and risky situation. That's also outlined. The Chamber has been indicated: the measures we are discussing here will reduce the risks we see as much as possible. I would like to point out to you that I cannot rule out the fact that the way in which we have worked has been involved in crimes. That is why I say: at the beginning it is very difficult to make that selection, because the situation is unclear. So with the knowledge of today, I do say that you need to be sharper on the selection side, but also in the monitoring. You also had the inspection report on the monitoring. Moreover, this also says in many areas: given the circumstances, monitoring has been good. It's not like the inspection report says it wasn't enough everywhere. But here too: with the experience we have, you will need to monitor more frequently and also communicate more frequently with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u471	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u472	Nevertheless, this distinction between selection and monitoring remains important. What the Minister says about monitoring, I understand. I can also see how you could improve that by actually looking more often and better and putting more energy into it. The question is what does it mean in practice if you say that we should also have made the selection clearer on closer inspection. I think that's a really good idea, considering what went wrong later. But the question is: what does that mean in practice? The Minister does not fail to stress all the time that it was a complex, unclear and complicated situation. So the question is really: what does it say if the Minister tells us now that we should select better and sharper on second thought? What does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u473	I think we agree that you need to tighten up the monitoring during the duration of such a programme, that you need to be closer to it. That also has consequences for the selection. That means that you have to select groups where you are also able, through the physical position, through your connections with them and possibly also the agreements with allies, to do that frequent and close-to-the-skin control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u474	In the April 2015 letter on which groups we are going to help, the government says we will first see who our allies support, so in this case, read America or the United Kingdom. On top of that, however, the cabinet uses its own fatting procedure, which provides for the testing of groups against a number of key criteria for the cabinet. These are three: no operational cooperation with extremist groups, an inclusive political solution, and groups committed to the observance of humanitarian war law. Now the Netherlands has supported 22 groups. On how many of these 22 groups has the Netherlands itself done the fatting and decided that they meet all three conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u475	I would like to return to the exact number in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u476	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u477	However, I would like to ask the question put by Mr Van Ojik. If, with the knowledge of today, you say that the fatting procedure could have been better or should have been better, then you also need to clear up what the test criteria should look like. For example, Mr Voordewind asked me about it. Then I said: I do not know, I have to ask Minister Blok. So that's the question I'm asking him. How do we make this concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u478	I can imagine that a number of speakers also mentioned that you are going to develop a procedure similar to that in the case of Article 100 in the case of military operations, including non-lethal support to armed groups, because then you will have a clear list of criteria, for example legal criteria, which are subject to prior public scrutiny and on which you will then agree to periodically communicate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u479	Is it real that the Netherlands does this completely independently or do you always depend on other countries, allies, to shape such a fat, selection and monitoring well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u480	Yes. I have just pointed this out to Mr Voordewind that if you were to formulate the requirement again, I think that we should keep thinking about this 100% always on the basis of our own Dutch information, you would impose a stricter requirement than we do in military operations, because we are always working in an alliance. So I wouldn't want to scorch that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u481	Good. Then Mr Voordewind. No, I'm looking at Mrs. Karabulut. Mr Voordewind, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u482	22 groups have been selected. We are not going to talk openly about which organisations they were, but I would like to suggest to the Minister an organisation also mentioned by Amnesty International, namely Jabhat al-Shamiya. A report has been issued by Amnesty, Torture was my punishment, of July 5, 2016. Did the cabinet at the time take note of that? Do any of these conclusions follow that this organisation had committed human rights violations and violations of humanitarian war law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u483	That report has been taken into account, but I cannot state whether this organisation has been supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u484	That's not what I'm asking. I ask whether the Minister agrees with me and with Amnesty that this organisation was involved in managing Sharia courts, kidnappings, tortures, court executions. Does he and Amnesty International recognise that this organisation was engaged in gross human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u485	I have no right to question Amnesty International's reports. At the Ministry we follow it very carefully. I do know that you have to apply hearing and hearing again when groups of people are accused of violations of war law. That is why I indicated: if there were signals about specific groups or actions, those groups were contacted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u486	Mrs Karabulut, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u487	One of the most important criteria is that groups adhere to the law of war. Last year I expressed my concerns in the House of Representatives and asked them during a public briefing whether these people complied with them. When this is November 2017, I was assured by a top minister's official that groups would not violate human rights and that where there were signs of violations or undesirable behavior aid would be stopped. "We're on top of it," he said, "and we're very critical." Then Sheikh Maqsoud had already been attacked and there was public information, including those signals. I have to say that the aid has not been stopped. Has the Chamber been misinformed at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u488	Mrs Karabulut has just asked that question. I said that I did not go into the question of which organisation was or was not supported. I went into the movie about the shooting of Sheikh Maqsoud. There is no misinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u489	It is not about groups, but about signals that would immediately stop aid. The Minister replied: we have received signals; we have given them human rights training. While those groups were involved in serious war crimes! I can only conclude that once again the Chamber has been misinformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u490	Mrs Karabulut once again asks me to go into a specific group when she knows that I cannot go into it in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u491	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u492	I did mention the film to which Mrs Karabulut refers, which is indeed horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u493	Then I suggest you move on. No, Mrs. Karabulut, it's going to be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u494	Yes, unfortunately, we are forced to repeat because a great deal is put into secrecy and are trying to sweep a number of things under the carpet. But these are groups that have not complied with the law of war, which were promised at the end of last year that they would act and that the aid would be stopped. Then I note that this did not happen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u495	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u496	... and that instead some kind of sweet training has been given to these people who have been involved in serious human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u497	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u498	To talk specifically about one of the groups about which there is information. We heard it from one of the participants in the round table, Mr Van Dam. He says in an interview about Ahrar al-Sham that they knew that they did not adhere to democratic principles, "but yes, they had signed that Riyadh statement." Then Van Dam says personally: I don't believe it, but look, you have to distinguish between what is officially said and what I personally think. Is that also the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u499	This is another question about a specific group. I can't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u500	This is a little too easy. The Minister has indicated that a number of colleagues consider it legitimate when information is secret. But this is information that's on the table, information that the whole world knows. I find it rather regrettable that the Minister is hiding behind an argument such as 'I am not going to give information about specific groups', because this information is already on the table. Everyone knows this already. So I think the Minister can make a statement about that. So again the question of whether the Minister agrees with the ruling on Ahrar al-Sham, which was therefore doubtful, even internally at the ministry, "I don't believe a word of it, but look, you have to distinguish between what is officially said and what I personally think."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u501	Mr Kuzu is making it easy for himself now. He blames me for... I have mentioned three interests: human lives are at risk if I mention groups, agreements have been made with allies, and intelligence services are involved. This means that, in this case, a minister is obliged to keep this minister secret, but this also applies to other ministers in similar cases. Mr Kuzu pretends that I am doing this for fun or has no interest other than withholding information. The information has been made available confidentially, but you cannot expect a minister to compromise human rights or violate the confidentiality of services by means of disclosure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u502	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u503	What a bullshit argument! I'm just gonna say it anyway. What a bullshit argument. This is not information that is available down here at the CIP or something; this is information that has just become public. One of the people who are very strongly involved in the implementation of the NLA programme on Ahrar al-Sham says: "It was a question of doubt. I don't believe it, but good." That's a quote. And then the Minister has no answer here and it gets too hot under his feet. To classify it as a secret is not strong, certainly not strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u504	I actually want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u505	Mr Kuzu is performing his play here again. I indicated at the beginning that even when others mention names of groups, I am not in a position to confirm or deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u506	Mr Baudet. Don't repeat the same questions that have just been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u507	You don't know me like that, do you? In reply to question 23, the Minister states that the Syrian team in Istanbul made the selection of those 22 groups. Can the Minister tell me that I asked earlier in my first term of office who the people who were on that team were, how they gave feedback to the Dutch steering teams, what was done with that feedback, and how, after those groups were selected, the monitoring of how they spent that money went? Where did something go wrong in communication? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u508	That Syrian team was a wide-ranging team, with different skills. That is also indicated in the answer to that question. They combined monitoring of the intermediaries who were in contact with the groups with conversations with those involved in the groups themselves and contacts with our allies about the groups. On that basis, something has not gone wrong massively, as Mr Baudet is now suggesting. As the IOB report also notes, a lot has gone well, but it could have been better in a number of places. I share that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u509	How you can call the destruction of Assad's Syria "very good" is a mystery to me. Anyway, I'll leave it on the Minister's behalf. Could he be more specific? He says the team was very wide-ranging. How many people are we talking about? Who are these people? Do they have freedom of speech, or have they been banned from speaking from the Dutch government? How has communication with the Netherlands been? Has it been weekly, or was it daily at some point? More specifically, because we want accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u510	I don't think I should share the names of officials and posts. Whether they can speak freely depends on the type of information. Part of it also applies to them that it's classified information. By the way, Parliament and government always communicate through the mouth of the executive, not through the officials concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u511	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u512	But could he be more specific about the communication? How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u513	It was very frequent, even there on the ground. I already indicated that there was direct communication with the groups, and communication through the intermediate companies and through allies. That was linked back to the Ministry. On top of that, there has been that inspection report and there has also been an interim assessment report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u514	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u515	I was still at the execution chapter. One of the questions raised by Mr Sjoerdsma was whether it was known at the time of selection that there was a possibility of cooperation with extremist groups. How does that rhyme with one of the three criteria which Mr Omtzigt just repeated? The criterion was operational cooperation, so really acting together in combat. As was also mentioned in the hearing, there has been coordination in this war situation, a kind of monitoring exercise, in which extremist movements could also be present at the time when a common enemy was being fought and it was wise to discuss with each other who was present where. That's different from acting together in combat situations. This concerns the concept of operational cooperation. Then there was D66's question and Mr Kuzu's question as to what the results of the aid operation were. At that time, the receiving parties provided protection to their families, villages and communities against both ISIS, Al-Qaida and associated groups as well as the regime. The equipment supplied, which included ovens, food and medicines, for example, was also used there. That is why I have repeatedly indicated that you cannot say that all the help has gone completely wrong. Aid in border areas was not only used to prevent illegal crossing of IS, but also arms and drug smuggling, for example. This has indeed been effective in a number of situations. The picture that nothing could have been done at all or that everything would have fallen into the wrong hands is therefore really wrong. Mr Voordewind asked why the aid continued after the arrival of the Russians at the end of 2015. By the end of 2015, significant areas were still in the hands of moderate groups, both on the Jordan border and on the Turkish border. So by the end of 2015, the original objective of a moderate opposition was to maintain, also in view of the negotiating table, not yet a lost battle. That situation did not arise until the end of 2017, early 2018. Mrs Kuik asked why the support was continued when the Americans had already stopped. There must be some kind of misunderstanding. Indeed, it was announced by the US side in the course of 2017, but in fact US and UK support continued longer. He also got the same amount of Dutch support. Then I'll come to the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u516	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u517	Take it easy, Mrs. Chicken. I have just missed the Minister's last comment. What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u518	I come now to the last block: the way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u519	Okay. Then I'll go to Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u520	Let's talk about the results. During the round table discussion, journalist Harald Doornbos, who was the only one in Syria at the time, said that there was actually no hope that moderate groups could still operate according to the Dutch criteria from 2013. In any case, 25% tax had to be paid at Al-Qaeda posts. The UN Human Rights Council has already concluded something similar in 2015. What is the Minister's response to this? Does he recognise that, wanted or unwillingly, the Nusra Front has been strengthened because it was the strike forces against Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u521	I just indicated that it was at the end of 2015 and in the course of 2016 that the Assad regime and ISIS were far from controlling the entire country and that the groups that were then supported still had significant parts of the country under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u522	That's what I heard. Only, I had asked for a response to what Mrs Del Ponte, Harald Doornbos and actually many others say, namely that that of those criteria of an inclusive Syria and not working with extremists is really well thought out and might be nice for the discussion here, but that it didn't work in practice because you had the dominance of Al Qaeda, department of Syria. Can the Minister reflect on that? Can he therefore reflect on the fact that the Fatah Halab, which included the Sultan Murad Brigade, is also associated with al-Sham and the Muslim Brotherhood, which are not the most moderate groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u523	Mrs Karabulut asks about the familiar path, if she asks me again for a response to specific groups. As time passed, the groups supported by the Netherlands and the allies came under increasing pressure, which meant that the extremist groups gained more control. Then the specific question is at what point you draw the conclusion that it is no longer enforceable. Well, I've come to that conclusion early this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u524	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u525	But this is all for or around 2015, when the support started. The Minister himself has just said that the aid stopped this spring, because it is indeed the result that these groups, the so-called moderate groups, no longer have any territory. That has indeed been the result. But the question that lies ahead, of course, is how it could have happened, knowing this, which has been supported by those groups. Can the Minister confirm that only once that team, the factfinding mission, has carried out investigations in Syria, i.e. by the officials themselves, and that this was a very nice story for domestic politics but completely unrealistic and in practice impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u526	It's a very long line of questions again. It started with 2015 but when I gave an answer about 2015 Mrs Karabulut jumped to Carla del Ponte. In 2015, there was still a significant area under the control of these groups. At that time, it could have been concluded that the Netherlands does not play any role, but the government, supported at that time by a majority in the Chamber, chose to do so. As far as control is concerned, I have indicated that from the outset it was very clear how difficult it would be and that I do think that if you want to do a similar organisation, then that control should be more intensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u527	No, no, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u528	But, Mr President, I had one more specific question, namely whether it is correct...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u529	No, Mrs Karabulut, I'm going to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u530	I think it is good that the Minister has also considered the role that this programme has played in combating IS. These are, after all, issues that we must take into account in today's debate. He also says that the monitoring program should have been sharper. I should like to ask him two questions about this. How does he assess the external evaluation? I am not talking about the IOB......................................................................................................................................................................................... How often has it then been established that groups no longer met these criteria and have actually taken action in the sense that aid has been stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u531	That mid-term evaluation also indicated that part of the operation went as intended, but that improvements were needed in other areas. When it comes to stopping, there are the two situations that the Chamber knows. One information was shared confidentially in January, the other was total termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u532	It's really about that monitoring, how strong it has been and how strongly it's dealt with signals that something was wrong. The Minister says there's been two acts. I would also like to ask: how many reports have not been performed on? I say that because of the change we had here: only a conversation is sometimes a bit soft. Maybe it didn't go quite as it was meant to. So how many serious reports of human rights violations were not acted on, hasn't the aid stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u533	As far as I know, serious reports have been made, but I will also check them and I will come back to them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u534	Okay. Then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u535	In the block of specific allegations, which has been completed, I had three questions open. The first question is about the incident that has been discussed here a few times, with Sheikh Maqsoud. This concerns the Sultan Murad Brigade, who put in a video they bombed themselves. The Minister replied: I understand from public sources that they did not. What public resources are those? The second concerns the Candor report that was discussed yesterday. Was that found in the archive? And are there any serious accusations in there? And the third is: is it true that a large pile of the transfer notes has fallen into the hands of Al-Nusra?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u536	It is likely that transfer tickets have fallen into the hands of Al-Nusra, because if an area is conquered and people are either dead or fled, then transfer tickets are not the first thing you take on your flight. When it comes to the availability of reports and archives: yes, they are available. And then the information from the video. The explanation I gave earlier in the debate was as follows. The video indeed shows a terrible picture of a rather primitive rocket fired on a Kurdish neighborhood according to the announcement, when that group was indeed attacked by Kurds. But on the basis of that film, I cannot legally conclude that at that time the Kurdish district was shot, because I only have that video and the commentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u537	A follow-up on all three points. Let's start with the video. That was placed on the YouTube channel of that Sultan Murad Brigade itself. They say themselves: look, this is our rocket, this is how we fire it and look, there's Sheikh Maqsoud. Even if they hadn't, I would have been very sorry. But in the answers, the government says: no, no, we understand from public sources that they did not do it. My question in the first term was: what public sources does the government have that they did not do this? The second is that archive. Everything's in the archive. Is that Candor report in the archive? And what did the IOB find? Because the IOB is extremely critical of the archive. The IOB says there's no archive at all. That would be in different places and there would be pieces missing as well. Does the Minister recognize that image? 'Cause that's pretty serious with an operation like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u538	I recognize the criticism of the archive. But to your question if that report is available, the answer is yes. And I don't have any information about the video other than the information I just gave you, but I'll take another look at it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u539	Okay, but at least three places the minister says there are public sources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u540	Yes, I heard your question. I'll check it again, but I now have no information other than the information I give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u541	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u542	Yeah, the look ahead. Mr Koopmans asked whether it was possible to undertake a similar aid programme without risks, and what risks were acceptable. Well, you're talking about support in a civil war situation to a group that's armed. You're giving non-lethal support to that. In a civil war situation, it's not without risks. However, you can try to minimise those risks as much as possible. The route forward that I also outlined was that I would think it wise to have some sort of review framework for that and in future to do better both ex-ante and on-the-go control. Then again, I think it is fairer, without knowing exactly what the situation is, to point out that in a civil war situation, supporting an armed group will never be risk-free. Mr Van Ojik asked: would you start the programme again with the knowledge of today? Well, in a different way, anyway. I always find it very difficult to try to move you again years later in the situation of that time. I have already explained in detail what the situation was, what sentiment was in the Netherlands, in the Chamber but also in allies. But I have not for nothing also indicated that I would do it differently in a number of areas. Mr Omtzig asked whether the government had completed its investigation. The Court still receives the ADR report, which also deals extensively with financial reporting. That's just not available yet and I thought it would come at the end of October. Mrs Karabulut asked whether western intervention always leads to a deterioration of the situation. That's a very general statement. I thought Mr Sjoerdsma also pointed out that our Constitution gives us a duty to enforce the international legal order. This also means that you are active outside the Netherlands. I have also pointed out many times in debates in the Chamber that there is always a very close look at whether there is a mandate for it. Is the Netherlands able to do it? Are allies with whom we have good experiences able to do so? But the Netherlands is not an island. The alternative of doing nothing, as some of us here in the Chamber say, is never without consequences. That means you're going down on human rights violations. This often means, even in the case of Syria, that you are also confronted with large flows of refugees. So there may be reasons why this obligation imposed on us by our Constitution is also being translated into action. Mr Van Ojik specifically asked for the end of the aid to the White Helmets. The White Helmets have certainly done a lot of good work. I agree with Mr Van Ojik. However, the IOB report on the granting of aid to the White Helmets indicates that there was insufficient monitoring of implementation. In fact, the IOB report is the most critical of that. Then there is the question: is it real to improve that now, since the White Helmets can only be active in the Idlib area where the war situation and the humanitarian situation are deteriorating very quickly, which means that the implementation of that control which the IOB gives rise to has become much more difficult. That has led to the government's conclusion: we cannot implement these recommendations anymore, and that is why we need to end this here too. Then Mr Baudet asked about the difference between the assessment of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when it comes to a terrorist organisation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs uses the international list of terrorist organisations. The state's attorney's office is looking at actual action. You can of course be a criminal offence if you use violence alone or in an organised context, even if your organisation is not on the international terrorist list. There's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u543	Whoa, whoa, whoa.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u544	No, you don't have the floor, because I don't think the Minister was ready. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u545	I'm also at the end of the last block with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u546	That's good. Then I will go first to Mr Van Ojik, because he was there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u547	I'm getting to the point of the White Helmets. My point was actually a little bit wider. I made that point in particular following the letter of 7 September, which was quite sudden, a few days before Nieuwsuur and Trouw came up with those revelations, suddenly sat in our inbox. That's where everything is stopped immediately. The NLA is being stopped. Having heard tonight's discussion, I understand. But also all other forms of stabilisation aid.............................................................................................................................................................. 25 million has been spent on NLA, but 70 million has been spent on the entire programme. But the entire program will be stopped. The Minister then says: the IOB says that we could not properly monitor the White Helmets. That's right. The IOB also says: that monitoring is getting better and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u548	What's your question, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u549	The Minister said: I'm going to look forward in my last block; then I'm going to say what we're going to do. All I hear now is that we're not gonna do anything anymore and that we're gonna select better and monitor better in the future. That's all important. That is also important to me, but my question is: what are we going to do not to abandon organisations that are still on the right side in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u550	Mr Van Ojik is threatening to make my speech inadequate. I have looked forward to how we should deal with non-lethal assistance and armed groups. I have given you this argument specifically about the White Helmets. You asked me why in September? Because the IOB report was there. Imagine if I hadn't sent you that IOB report. Then the world would have been too small. Then the headlines were, "Blok is withholding IOB report." In that letter you read that the NLA aid was terminated, but that was not in September. It is not that we have ended all support. That's what you read in the September letter. We're doing humanitarian support. Then it is really about food and medical supplies, where we can still get them from the population. We will continue to provide that support. Furthermore, the Netherlands continues to support the evidence bank. I've indicated that a number of times. In addition, however difficult it has become, we continue to support the political process led by UN Envoy De Mistura.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u551	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u552	I know. There is both humanitarian support and support for the political process. But my question was about the stabilisation programme. The minister said he had to send the IOB report to the Chamber. Of course, but the IOB report does not mention the relevance of the programmes. It does not talk about the effectiveness of the programmes. It speaks purely of monitoring and transparency; let me sum it up in this way. That's what they say: the White Helmets are under-performing. If you think they are doing important humanitarian work, I think so; perhaps it is now much more necessary than ever in the province of Idlib, then you are going to help them to monitor better. Then you're gonna help them be more transparent. But then you don't withdraw your support to organizations that need it so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u553	I agree with Mr Van Ojik that the White Helmets have done a great job, but I also note that the recommendation of the IOB, which was critical of the White Helmets, can no longer reasonably be implemented in the current situation in Idlib.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u554	I would nevertheless like to respond to the Minister's reaction to my comment on participation or support in a terrorist organisation or a criminal organisation. Of course, it is not the case that giving support to such an organisation in itself must necessarily mean that you are also a co-worker. But supporting such an organisation in itself can lead to criminal prosecution. So you cannot just say: we use the international list of terrorist organisations and that's it. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office simply says: that is a criminal organisation. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u555	I'm not hearing a disagreement right now. It is indeed up to the Public Prosecutor to decide whether an organisation, even if it is not on the terrorist list, is a criminal organisation or whether individual members of it have engaged in criminal activities. If that's the case, the D.A.'s office also has all the tools to prosecute. But that is independent of whether that organisation is on the international terrorist list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u556	I do not argue that either, but that means that if the Netherlands, the Dutch State, has supported that organisation, then the Dutch State may have committed criminal offences and therefore the Minister responsible has been responsible for criminal offences. So either he committed an offense or he could be prosecuted in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u557	Those are some really big jumps I've heard on TV. That's where they do the right thing. The Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands is completely independent. If she wants to do that investigation and prosecute someone, she's free to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u558	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u559	Is the Minister prepared to ask Mr Grapperhaus to give a lead to the Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate to what extent his predecessors could indeed have been guilty of a criminal offence by supporting this organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u560	As far as I'm aware, once in history, a Minister of Justice has given a clue to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is a very radical measure in a rule of law. The state's attorney's office has every right to prosecute if it wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u561	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u562	Indeed, the Minister writes that the fact that the D.A. wants to prosecute a Syrian for participating in a terrorist organisation, a criminal organisation for terrorist purposes, does not mean that this minister has to stop the aid. But can the Minister explain to me what it means if this minister would implicitly say to such a Syrian 'that group you have been part of has brought stabilisation to Syria'? That's really weird, isn't it? What does it mean, in concrete terms, that one and the same government says such a thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u563	I've already indicated that the State's Attorney's Office is completely independent. If the D.A. wants to prosecute someone, it's free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u564	In practice, therefore, the same group may be supported by this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u565	Of course, someone involved in a government-supported group at home or abroad may also engage in criminal activities. Then the D.A. has every right to prosecute that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u566	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u567	How would the Minister explain this to the public, which finds this really confusing? I find it rather confusing myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u568	I would point out that it may happen that someone who is active in an organisation supported by the Dutch government may also be involved in criminal activities in the Netherlands? Then it must be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u569	Indeed, it is not understandable for many people. It could also be the ambition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, this Minister to bring the definitions closer together. I'm thinking, for example, of the D.A.'s office, which then prosecutes and sues someone. If it subsequently came to a court ruling, is the Minister prepared to include such an organisation on the Dutch list of terrorist organisations at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u570	I think it would be rather impractical for the prosecution to always have that one-on-one attached. Terrorist lists are not for nothing preferably international, because then you can also deal with terrorism, which by its very nature is cross-border. I would not like to restrict the Public Prosecutor's Office's actions by establishing a one-to-one link between what they can prosecute and the lists of terrorist organisations used at international or national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u571	I'm not asking for that at all. I'm asking for better information exchange, where you put the definitions side by side, and you have the State Department update that list, supplementing it. We are indeed using the UN list and the EU list, but the NCTV also updates the Dutch list of terrorist organisations three times a year. The Netherlands not only has the role to look at what is happening in Europe and at the United Nations. We also have an independent role in this. My question is very specific. If the judge has ruled on a person who is involved in an organisation and has designated him as a terrorist, is the Minister prepared to consider that organisation also a terrorist?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u572	If a judge has identified an organization as a terrorist, that is an important fact. You are now asking the Foreign Minister to act on that. Getting something on an international terrorist list takes a few more steps. But if a judge does take that step, then the government, whether it is the colleague of justice or I, will look seriously at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u573	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u574	Then we are indeed on the right track. Again, we do have that UN list and we have that EU list. I would ask the Minister to include that organisation or organisations on the Dutch list of terrorist organisations. Then we do not just have to look at the EU and the UN, but at the Dutch list. I think the Foreign Minister can do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u575	I really need to talk to the colleague of Justice and Security. That really depends on that particular verdict. But I indicated that it is what it is when an organization is classified as a terrorist organization. Well, then it's worth taking a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u576	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term and to the second term of office. Mr. Overzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u577	Could we maybe get a very short suspension, like, five or ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u578	Yes, that's what Mr. Ommzigt called in the wild. Five minutes? Then we'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u579	We will continue with the debate on Dutch support for the armed opposition in Syria and we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u580	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. If I am grateful to him for one thing, it is the fact that he stopped the NLA programme very soon after he took office, within a month. That is the right decision, we are much more convinced of that after this debate than we were before this debate. From the beginning, the program had a paper reality and a real reality. In the paper reality, you made rebels sign that they wouldn't use the cars, that they wouldn't use the cars that were rigged to mount weapons on the battlefield. In paper reality, you had a minister who said "we want to get rid of Assad" and you had rebels who said "we want to get rid of Assad," but didn't support these rebels with the aim of getting rid of President Assad of Syria. The real reality, as we see again today, does not correspond to our ideas and values and has unfortunately not brought the solution of the very painful and deadly conflict in Syria closer. Mr. Chairman. I am still waiting for three points to be answered. Minister Koenders said already in 2014 and 2015: Assad must leave. Is that true and how does that relate? 22 groups were supported and the Netherlands would monitor on three essential conditions. How many of these 22 groups were checked by the Netherlands for these three essential conditions and found acceptable before they received that support? I am also waiting for an answer on the public round around Sheikh Maqsoud. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, there are still many questions open. This also makes sense in such a complex case and a case in which a number of things are confidential from the very nature of the case. It is therefore necessary to carry out research to get the facts around the NLA programme to use it for a better, solid and forward-looking framework. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the provision of non-lethal support in Syria involved a new form of aid in which the government provided support to armed groups not part of regular armed forces;]] [[Calls on the CAVV and the AIV to jointly deliver an opinion on a review framework for the provision and financing of non-lethal support to non-state armed groups abroad;]] [[Calls on the Committees, among other things, to examine the NLA programme in Syria as a basis and to involve the facts and findings of this investigation in the review framework;]] [[calls on the committees to include in this process the role of international advice, its publicity and the possibility of conflict;]] [[and invites the Government to cooperate fully by providing access to documents and participating in talks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Voordewind, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Koopmans, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers, but also for his reflection on the questions that have arisen and on what has gone wrong. Sometimes that was a bit more economical and he formulated it as what could have been better or what could have been better. I am also beginning my contribution to commending the Minister for his decisiveness in stopping this programme. Other ministers for him have not done so and he has been so brave to do so. I ask him whether he still thinks it is justified to continue the current programme, the White Helmets, until the end of the year. The minister says it stops, but it doesn't stop until the end of this year. The IOB was the most critical of this organisation when it came to monitoring. So we're not back here in four months to say we should have stopped it sooner? At least that's what I want to say. Mr. Chairman. I note that the Minister has indicated that I note from his answers and all the information we have received that three promises given in advance by the previous cabinet have been violated. I'll name them. The fatting, the selection procedure would be done independently by the Netherlands. That didn't happen. Aid would be stopped at the moment when human rights violations were demonstrated by the groups. That didn't happen. There's been a conversation. And the cars of the supported organizations were also deployed in the battle. At least, that's what the groups themselves say. Mr President, these are three promises that have been broken. It's supposed to be a boulevard or broken dreams. I say to Mr Omtzig that this is a testament to a paper reality about what was going on in the field over the last three months. I'd say this is never gonna happen again. I am pleased, however, that the Minister has indicated that a number of mistakes have been made. The selection needs to be improved. The communication on international law advice should be improved next time. And the monitoring should also have been better and should be done better in the future. On this basis, the Christian Union notes the need to establish a clear review framework. Pre-selection should be better done in the future. Monitoring needs to be improved in the future. And in a subsequent decision, the international legal advice must be shared with the Chamber. Mr President, in order to achieve these results, my group has also supported and signed the motion which Mr Omtzigt has previously read out. The Christian Union hopes that this will reduce these errors in the future and strengthen Parliament's control. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u582	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u583	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for the comprehensive reply. My group has also co-signed Mr Omtzigt's motion, because we think it is a good idea if the review framework we already have for military intervention is actually applied to this type of civil aid. If one thing has become clear from this debate and from all the documents we have received, then it is that distinction that we were perhaps too easily tempted to make between civil support and, let me say, more military support, international law does not always stand. At least that is the opinion of the international consultant as he has informed us. So it is important to take a closer look at that. Select sharper and monitor sharper. I'd almost say, "Who could be against that?" It is very good that the Minister says: I will. But the question is, of course, how exactly are we going to do this in practice as soon as the situation recurs. The Minister cannot say that at this time either; I understand that. I will conclude with a motion on the White Helmets. For unlike Mr Voordewind, I very much regret that the cabinet has decided to withdraw that support, without further too much argument. Although the IOB report does state that monitoring is insufficient, it also states that monitoring is improving rapidly. And so I think that we organizations such as the White Helmets are obliged to do such good work, often in such a hopeless situation, not to abandon them but to continue to support them. Hence, Madam President, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is room for improvement in the monitoring and transparency of White Helmets;]] [[noting that the Dutch Government has ceased to grant financial aid to the White Helmets;]] [[noting that other international partners are continuing to provide financial support to the White Helmets;]] [[believes that continuing the important work of the White Helmets, such as saving Syrians during war operations, deserves continued support from the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to assist White Helmets in improving monitoring and transparency and to examine ways and means of continuing to support and inform the Chamber of Humanitarian Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u585	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u586	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to investigative journalism it has become known that the Dutch government has provided military support to armed Syrian rebels, who have violated the criteria set by the Dutch government on respect for war law, human rights, including governance and not cooperating with extremists. We are not standing here because our government has informed us that this did not happen or because our government has informed us that it happened and that it has stopped aid. We are standing here because this has come to light from the media. We stand here because year in, year out of the government misinformed us. And that's serious. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the image as outlined by research work by Trouw and Nieuwsuur, namely that, despite repeated pressure from the Chamber, it has not been fairly communicated on the extent to which criteria for support to armed groups in Syria have been violated;]] [[declares confidence in this minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u587	Mr. Chairman. That's about acting and disinforming the Chamber. But it is important, also for the future, to get the truth out of the table. That's why there's one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that questions about the revelations of Nieuwsuur and Trouw about support from the Netherlands to armed groups in Syria have not been adequately answered and concerns about (effect of) this support have not been adequately addressed;]] [[decides to conduct its own investigation into all relevant aspects of Dutch support to armed groups in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u588	Mr. Chairman. I am proud that we live in the rule of law, and I hope that we will all ensure that we also protect, respect and respect international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u589	Thank you. Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u590	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. We are talking about a horrible war in Syria: more than 500,000 victims and a battle scene with hundreds if not more than a thousand fighting groups. The room wanted to help. We wanted to send F-16s to fight ISIS and we also wanted these help packages in large numbers. Then we have to be real. Then we have to accept risks. Taking risks means accepting risks. So that means doing more than pacifism. That means doing more than painting banners. But then we must be very critical of reducing those risks as much as possible. But we must also be realistic about this. We're not talking about the Swiss guard around the Pope. It seems obvious that things have gone wrong. Everyone can learn from that, the Cabinet and the Chamber. That is why I am co-author of the motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt for a review framework drawn up on the basis of the opinion of a number of committees looking at the experience so that we can see how we can do better in the future. Mr. Chairman. So we have to be realistic about that too. It must still be possible to combat international terrorism, as we did in Syria. Being realistic means being critical but also having the courage, at least as far as the VVD is concerned, to dare to do things when it is really necessary to save people and to fight terrorism. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u591	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u592	Mr. Chairman. When in the years 2015 and 2016 numerous debates were held in this house on the refugee drama, when there were debates on Article 100 letters, on the international mandate in Syria to launch bombs, my group has always said: stop creating unrest in the Middle East, because that will stop the flow of migration. Today, once again, it is painfully clear what has happened in Syria. The Minister actually admitted it. We didn't distribute any flowers or sweets and chocolates there. No, we've been handing out trucks, we've been handing out cars, we've been handing out communication equipment; stuff used in the armed struggle. The minister himself said that "there has been involvement in crimes"; quote. "The selection of these organisations has not gone well"; quote. Monitoring was not sufficient. That is all the case. This will ensure that my group will at least consider bringing an action against the Minister for a criminal offence. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that I will support Mrs Karabulut's motion of censure. A number of motions from my side on the lessons that we have had to learn from this. First of all, the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to suspend all foreign missions engaged in armed combat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u593	I would like to ask for clarification from Mr Kuzu. He was talking about "an offense." That is a very serious matter. Can he explain what he means and what he intends to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u594	We have been given extensive information on the procedure for this. It means that we, as a group, will consider drawing up a letter to the Chamber of Representatives, to the Chamber, to investigate the Minister's actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u595	Mr. Koopmans. You don't have to. I see you shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u596	This means that five Members of Parliament must support it. So if the VVD Group feels invited, it is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u597	Mr President, I am not shaking because I do not think I am going to ask a question, but I am shaking because I am very surprised that Mr Kuzu says that he is considering sending a letter at a later date. We are talking about a very serious process here. We have a huge debate here. We've asked 350, 380 questions. We have had a lot of answers to that, in this debate too. And now Mr Kuzu is equally carelessly reporting that he is going to think about whether or not he is ever going to write a letter about something that is extremely serious. That's why I'm shaking my head, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u598	I've been informed in detail about the procedures and that's the way it's going. The last time it happened, I think it was a century ago, so the procedures for that need to be dusted again, but it does mean that a letter must be written with a charge and the reasoning for it. That's right. You don't do that at 11:00 in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u599	What you don't just do at 11:00 in the evening is throw something into a debate that you're considering. I know DENK. They intend to report it and then they do not. So my question to Mr Kuzu is now: will you give me a hug or calf, will you write that letter, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u600	The moment there are five MPs...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u601	No, are you gonna write that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u602	The moment there are five MPs in this house, we are definitely considering doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u603	I can only conclude that a large part of this Chamber has done its utmost to conduct this debate in a way that controls the government and enables lessons to be learned for the future. This can also include a judgment as the SP has done. My group will not support that. You won't be surprised. But this is just a publicity balloon. To be honest, I don't think it's fancy either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u604	What is a publicity balloon is that many questions have been asked for months, by Mr Omtzigt and by Mr Voordewind in particular. I praised that. Tonight we held a wide-ranging debate to get the bottom line. Well, that didn't work. That didn't work. A consequence of this is a motion of censure, which we shall be supporting, and secondly, certainly the consideration to be given to it. Why do we do that? We're not talking about flowers and sweets we've been handing out. No, we've been handing out goods that have killed people, that have torn families apart, and that have taken away the future of a lot of people. In order to be outraged by the fact that we are considering this... Well, I'm gonna move on to my next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u605	Under the law, any MP is free to do so. I would like to ask Mr Kuzu, who formed his own group in 2014, why he did agree to this NLA programme in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u606	Mr Omtzigt's memory does not seem to go far enough. Mr Kuzu and Mr Öztürk separated in November 2014. I think the NLA programme started a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u607	Yeah, that's exactly why. So you did not vote against this programme. You agreed to this program in April 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u608	We do have an article 100... We have had several debates in this Chamber. Today I explained it during my contribution. The point is that at that time Koenders' intention not to give any ground to IS and to Assad was a legitimate argument. But what happened next, we have also seen in recent years. Of this, the Minister himself has indicated where it has led. We've been involved in crimes. I sincerely wonder whether we should do more about this and instruct the Public Prosecutor to look into what is possible in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u609	It's not the D.A.'s office, by the way. It goes straight to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u610	No, the Chamber gives the order, and the D.A. carries it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u611	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u612	Yeah, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u613	...you go to the Supreme Court...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u614	No, eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u615	... but procedurally, this isn't so exciting. If Mr Kuzu is really considering this, I would really ask him to reflect on why he is now saying that there was an article 100 letter. It wasn't an article 100 letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u616	Yeah, a letter with that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u617	I also ask him why he has agreed to this programme and what leads him to go all the way of agreeing to this programme and for five years not asking about it at all at all at the first best debate that there is about the most serious means out of the box.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u618	That is not the case. Over the past few years, we have talked about this enough times. I know Mr Omtzigt as the man of procedure. When we look at the procedures, it says: "1. At least five members may make a written reasoned proposal to consider a complaint against a member of the Board of Directors for a criminal offence. 2. The person concerned shall be informed within 24 hours of the lodging of an indictment." Then there are seven further points. I can read them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u619	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u620	That's right. That goes through the Supreme Court and not through the D.A.'s office. Who does Mr Kuzu intend to file this against, against the Minister who stopped it or against Minister Koenders, whom he has just praised extensively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u621	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u622	No, there is no heirloom in criminal cases, such as political responsibility. This Minister is responsible for all the actions of his predecessor. Offences are about what ministers themselves have done. That is why I would like Mr Kuzu to be very precise in why he is considering a criminal offence against this minister, who stopped the programme within a month, and not against the ministers who started it? Does he have that in mind too, or is this a very fast balloon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u623	This is a sharp point, which I would add to the considerations. But I do really stick to the argumentation and the motivation. The point is that people were killed by action, by the support of the Dutch government, by the Dutch State. What matters is the question "who?" I will take that into consideration when we examine it further. I'm here to announce that we're considering it. I'll look into it further. Thank you for pointing that out to us. I'll take that. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u624	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u625	I have said that I do not fully share the opinion of my colleagues. A colleague is free to report an offense. But just so we're clear, it's incredibly serious, because you're asking a minister to go to jail. If you haven't even thought about which person you're talking about, I would advise you to think about it next time before you announce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u626	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u627	These are serious, serious allegations against the previous cabinet. I would ask Mr Kuzu why he has voted against my motion. If he had acted so fiercely against this cabinet, could he have just voted in favour of the motion of 29 April 2015? As proposers, we call on the cabinet to refrain from the aid that Mr Kuzu is talking so horribly about. But he voted against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u628	That is why I say: I am not too bad to admit afterwards that we were wrong there. That's just what I've been trying to make clear. I'm not too bad for that. No, I didn't. I had hoped that you would also see during the little interruption debate we had with each other that the commitment you made two months later was just as wrong when it comes to supporting groups like the YPG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u629	Mr Kuzu is now putting on a very big pair of pants by even trying to prosecute the previous cabinet, while he has made a small mistake. Because this was the first motion that was tabled, in which the cabinet looked at which parties were for or against that support programme. You were in favour of that support programme, and now you say you should never have done it. But you made a mistake yourself. You were on the wrong side, Mr. Kuzu!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u630	That we did not vote in favour of Mr Voordewind's motion at the time, he has a point to make. But we don't live in 2015. We live in 2018. And in 2018 we saw that our involvement has led to crimes, that our involvement has supported terrorist organisations, that our involvement has violated human rights, that our involvement has killed people. Then I think it is also important that you realise that you have not been doing a sensible job there and continue to raise the possibilities to really get the bottom stone out of it. This is one of those instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u631	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u632	Mr Kuzu accuses this cabinet of a criminal offence for which he himself is jointly responsible. This motion was decisive for the cabinet when they considered whether they could proceed with the program. You supported her back then. Everything you accused the cabinet of then, you are responsible for that yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u633	We have a separation of powers. We did set frameworks at the time. I would also say that, with the wisdom of today, we would certainly have voted differently on that. Once again, I am giving Mr Voordewind a point. But what's important is that in recent years enough information has come out, especially accelerated by excellent research work by Nieuwsuur and Trouw, to say that we really need to get the bottom stone all the way up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u634	Mr Kuzu maximises the responsibility of the rulers and minimizes his own involvement. He says: yes, that motion, that can happen; with the wisdom of now... And then he's so very sharp that he's gonna come up with some serious crimes. These are all considerations, but is he also considering making a complaint against Mr Kuzu in connection with criminal proceedings, because he, as a Member of Parliament, has not properly formed his opinion on a very important motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u635	Nice try. In the end, Mr Kuzu was not responsible for handing out jeeps, trucks and material to groups working with terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u636	If you read that motion back quietly, you can see that it was said at the time: in this complicated situation in Syria you take too many risks by providing this type of goods. Then Mr. Kuzu said, no problem, just go ahead. And now he's got the biggest mouth and he's even talking about felonies. That doesn't give a pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u637	No. What has happened in the meantime is that numerous commitments have been made about better monitoring, establishing criteria and so on. We see that in the meantime none of them have been complied with, that none of them have been observed at all. My objection remains that we in the Middle East, in Syria, have taken human lives, that we have broken up families and that we have destroyed the future of many people. Therefore, this measure. I'll take it into consideration again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u638	You have other motions, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u639	Yes, this is motion two, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop providing any kind of support to groups fighting each other or to an oppositional group fighting against a regime per se,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u640	And then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a discrepancy between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the qualification of groups as a terrorist organisation;]] [[noting that situations have arisen in which the Dutch Government has supported armed groups which the Public Prosecutor's Office considers to be terrorist;]] [[calls on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in consultation with the Minister for Justice and Security, to provide his department with a more unambiguous definition of a terrorist organisation and to include it on the Dutch list of terrorist organisations at the time when a Dutch court has ruled that such an organisation can be classified as a terrorist organisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u641	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u642	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u643	Mr. Chairman. That support programme for the Syrian armed opposition was no good. The assumptions weren't right. The plan wasn't right. The performance rattled. The consequences were bad. It started with an EU regulation from 2013, of which the Minister said: we were going to implement it together with a number of other countries. It was a call for non-lethal support. So we did, while in 2013 it was already known that Al-Qaeda/Al-Nusra was in charge of that entire area. Although there were local groups to defend village X or town Y, they were tolerated by Al-Nusra until they were overrun by Al-Nusra. So that point of departure was already wrong. The Minister said that we gave that support so that at the negotiating table someone could take a different position than Assad or IS. But there have never been proper negotiations at the Geneva table. The Mistura himself said: I don't think this is going to work. All that wasn't true either. In 2013 and 2015, it was thus already clear that there would be "a clearly very unclear and risky situation at the outset." Those are the Minister's literal words. Then I don't understand why the government then stuck her fingers in the door. Mr. Chairman. The consequences are therefore bad. The plan was rattling. Commanders of combat groups who were caught in misdeeds received a course of human rights, but the support was not terminated. We've sometimes worked without independent intel, but we've just relied on intelligence from allies. That is, of course, also a raving state of affairs. The performance was rattling. Cars wouldn't be used for war purposes. It was a condition that wouldn't happen, but we couldn't control it. I guess that wasn't right either. Mr. Chairman. So the consequences were bad. Human rights violations, terrorists or whatever you want to call them, were supported by the government. The risk has been taken that, in a criminal case, we come in the door legally. This leads to terrorists being supported by the government for years, while Dutch soldiers apparently couldn't get clothing against the cold and they didn't have proper bulletproof vests. The Minister is politically responsible for these abuses. I note that ministers have been sent away for less, for example for receipts. There is a motion of censure from Mrs Karabulut. The main motivation for this is that communication is inadequate and inadequate. I agree with Mrs Karabulut, but as far as the PVV is concerned, there is also a great and important reason for the Minister to put a motion of censure on his pants that the government has simply supported terror. We do not want that, so I will advise my group to support that motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u644	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u645	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. On the SGP side, we explained in the first period that we did not support this controversial programme at the time. We also feel, of course, confirmed by the way things are going in the correctness of that political choice, but at the same time it is good to learn from what has gone wrong, how choices can be made in a more careful way in the future and how a review framework can be made. For these reasons, my name is also under Mr Omtzigt's motion. I think it is a good thing that seven parties support this motion and say: take the lessons for the future, but also make a strong contribution to what has gone wrong in this programme. We believe that this is a credible response to the difficulties that have emerged in recent times and in this debate in order to deal with them more carefully and better in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u646	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u647	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I listened carefully to the Minister's words in the first term. In that he constantly fell into repetitions, such as "I can't rule that out" and "I don't have to fill it out any further." We saw a minister hiding behind secrecy over and over again, even when he is presented with publicly known matters. The minister talked about reducing human suffering as the main reason to support the opposition groups. They could protect their families. But let's face it: pick-up trucks, uniforms, night vision goggles, are those the most obvious means? We really do not think so, because the Minister himself said that everyone was aware that they were fighting groups. And those, like I said in the first installment, really don't use pickup trucks to do groceries. The Court has not been given any clarity as to the monitoring of what has happened to the goods. The Minister gave a global sketch very easily and we did not hear much more than "it should have been better." Even when it comes to the aspects of international law, my group does not think the Minister is very convincing. We do have compliments to Trouw and Nieuwsuur. Mr. Chairman. If we ever want to support opposition groups anywhere again, let us really focus on the humanitarian aspect and, above all, do not supply anything that can really be used differently. For the Minister himself has rightly said that such operations in civil war can never be without risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u648	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u649	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers in the first term. However, I would like to return to the situation in 2015 in Syria, where the Syrian people were trapped between those barrel bombs throwing Assad on the one hand and the barbarism of IS on the other hand, and the sense of urgency that existed at the time, especially with a blocked Security Council. The Minister also outlined this and outlined the results achieved in the fight against ISIS, and I think it is right to highlight that. But there have also been very big problems seen today. The Minister said that no information was shared about the risks of international law. I should have. The previous ministers had promised that the Netherlands would carry out the selection itself. That did not happen, partly because we did not have the right information. This minister said that the selection should have been more intensive. But it wasn't in line with the promises. According to this minister, the monitoring should also have been stepped up. That brings me to the conclusion that much of this programme is not as promised. This minister qualified that in his introduction as "could have been better." My own qualification is: inadequate and disappointing. I think we should learn from this very urgently. That is also why I strongly support Mr Omtzig's motion. I think it is extremely important, as Mr Van der Staaij also said, that we look back on what has happened here and draw very clear lessons from it for the future. As far as international law is concerned, I think it is extremely important that the international law adviser should be able to advise himself independently and on his own initiative. I ask this Minister to say so and to make it possible. And I would ask the Minister to answer the two outstanding questions on my part in the second term. Then it's about the permits of the anti-EID vehicles and the pick-up trucks, and the question of which organizations we haven't stopped with after serious reports of violations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u650	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u651	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma outlined the context of 2015. He talked about the universal evil facing the Syrian people and the fact that once you are cornered by evil, there is no such thing as a right or a wrong. But in the end, doing nothing was not an option for my group. However, we must be critical of the decisions taken at the time, of the way in which the fatting mechanism was carried out and of the way in which monitoring was carried out. The Minister has said a number of interesting things about this and I would like to thank him for that. At the same time, many are still open. It is still unclear how this should be done and how it should be done. For my group, this has also been the reason for the co-signing of Mr Omtzigt's motion, to which reference has already been made. Mr. Chairman. It will not be the last time we have this discussion with the Minister. At the same time, I believe that our group will always be open to action when there are people in need or when there are crisis situations. Then we must always be able to see with an open mind what measures we can take in all modesty as the Netherlands. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u652	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u653	While my associate, if it's all right, has turned in the motion papers to the Registry, I'm sure I'll read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the prosecution is currently prosecuting a jihadist from the Netherlands for participating in the Islamic terrorist organisation Jabhat al-Shamiya;]] [[Whereas successive governments supported these and possibly other terrorist groups through the NLA programme;]] [[Whereas the Foreign Affairs Ministers Koenders, Zijlstra and Blok are responsible for this policy;]] [[Whereas the failure to prosecute the Dutch state aid to terrorist groups would be a sign of serious legal inequality if, at the same time, the State prosecuted Dutch residents for supporting these groups;]] [[Whereas this serious injustice of justice may possibly even block the prosecution of Syrians;]] [[Whereas criminal law expert Mr. Knoops stated in Trouw on 10 September that the minister responsible for the NLA programme and the support to Jabhat al-Shamiya may have committed a criminal offence, and that "the minister can therefore be prosecuted if he has been deliberately negligent";]] [[Whereas support for terrorist movements, which may have tens of thousands of deaths on their consciences, should not go unpunished;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint the Prosecutor to investigate whether Koenders, Zijlstra and Blok may have committed one or more offences, and to inform the Chamber of the possibility of prosecuting these (former) rulers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is no realistic alternative to the Assad government;]] [[Whereas the efforts of the Rutte Cabinets to destabilise and expel the Assad Government have only led to the continuation of bloodshed;]] [[calls on the Government now to cease all support for armed and unarmed opposition groups in Syria and publicly recognise that the Government of Assad has the legitimate state authority in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Syrian civil war is now coming to an end;]] [[whereas the majority of Syria is now in the hands of the Assad Government;]] [[whereas, last week during his speech to the UN, Mr Walid al-Moualem, Syria's Foreign Minister, indicated that Syria is ready to welcome the Syrians fleeing the war back to Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to settle with the Syrian Government to return all Syrian asylum seekers and status holders to their home country as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-238]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-239]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Omtzigt. Indeed, he still has an answer to three questions. He had asked me about Mr Koenders' statement in 2015. I found a verdict he made in Nieuwsuur. The verdict was that it was not up to the Netherlands to decide that he should leave Assad as president in this case, but that everyone actually thinks that there is no real future for Assad. The verdict is mostly about the moment he has to leave. In January Koenders repeated that someone who has so much blood on his hands must answer to a judge. When I read this back, it is in line with the explanatory statement I also gave that bringing it to court is an end in itself. Mr Omtzig also agreed, but it is not up to the Dutch Government to advocate such a regime change. The second question that was still open was whether all 22 groups on the three criteria mentioned by Mr Omtzigt were assessed in advance. The answer to that is yes. Then Mr Omtzigt asked about the public sources relating to the shelling of the Sheikh Maqsoud district. The Amnesty report mentions the dome Fatah Halab. Sultan Murad was part of that at the time, but is not specifically mentioned. There are public sources that specifically identify Jabhat al-Nusra, Ahrar al-Sham and Jaish al-Islam as culprits for the civilian deaths in the shelling of Maqsoud. These are sources like Human Rights Watch, The Daily Beast and a number of Kurdish news organizations. Those last sources were referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u655	I would like to receive these sources, because it was said not only that others were appointed, but that it would also show that the Sultan Murad Brigade would not have done so. Of course, that goes one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u656	I'd be happy to put what I'm saying back on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u657	Thank you. So I understand that all 22 groups have been checked on all three conditions by the Dutch fatting procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u658	I will get to the point where I checked, in response to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u659	But the question I asked was: how many of these 22 groups were fattened by the Dutch team and agreed on the three points? That was a commitment to the Chamber. Is that 21 or 20, or is that 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u660	Check. I shall go straight to Mr Sjoerdsma, who asked me the same question. The ten groups in the north have all been judged by themselves. The twelve in the south have been judged mostly by the British, but also partly by themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u661	I want it a little more precise than "primarily." Of those twelve groups, one or two or three have been assessed by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u662	I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u663	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u664	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. The Minister did not have an independent but an internal investigation into the findings of Trouw en Nieuwsuur. Does that research relate only to the groups brought up by Trouw en Nieuwsuur, or was that a study of all groups supported by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u665	As a result of the reports of Trouw and Nieuwsuur and in response to the questions put by the Chamber, I have, of course, examined the course of events. The ADR is still under investigation. So that investigation doesn't just cover the Wedding and News hour reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u666	I'm sorry, but you can't do this. The Prime Minister declared at the beginning of September: o, shock; it is new to us that we might have supported jihadist groups. The Foreign Minister said: o, shock; we are going to do an investigation. And now I ask the Minister, is that correct? Are those all the groups? And what's the research gonna do? 'Cause that's still going on, I understand from the Minister. Then he can't send us back with a brat in the reeds, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u667	The ADR investigation is ongoing, but that is not news to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u668	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u669	In answering the 382 questions, the Minister explicitly wrote that he would investigate the facts put forward by Nieuwsuur and Trouw, because they were shocked. The Prime Minister claimed to have heard it for the first time. My question to the Minister is: has that investigation been completed? And does that research concern only those groups or all 22 groups supported by the Netherlands? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u670	The investigation has been completed, with the exception of the ADR investigation the Court is still receiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u671	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u672	No. Mr. Baudet, at this point. We're not going to have the debate again. It's been fed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u673	I must agree with Mrs Karabulut. The Minister is very vague about this. There's a motion of censure here. We're going to vote on that as a room tonight. Can't the Minister give us a little more clarity as far as that's possible? If that is not possible, can he admit that he cannot answer things now, that this has to do with a certain vagueness and that he is asking again for the confidence of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u674	What is vague about the statement that the investigation has been completed, with the exception of the ADR study?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u675	You're saying the Chamber will get that. Can you tell us when we're going to get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u676	I think it's the end of October, but we've had this discussion before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u677	Okay. Then I suggest you proceed to the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u678	Mr Omtzigt's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u679	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u680	I would like to go to the motions, but I would also like to get an answer to the question about those anti-IED vehicles and the pick-up trucks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u681	Of course, I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's question, but I do it in order of the questioners. I'll get to the motion first in part No. 231, which Mr Omtzigt has submitted together with a large number of others and which looks forward and asks the government, with the cooperation of the Commission, to develop a new review framework with the assistance of the Advisory Committee on People's Rights and the International Consultative Commission. The motion also wants me to give these committees access to the NLA programme, including the role of international law advice, public access and the possibilities of contradiction. I'd like to carry out this motion. I would like to cooperate in giving both committees access to confidential information. To avoid misunderstandings: in such a way that the general conclusions can be drawn whatever the motion asks for, and not an assessment on a case-by-case basis, because then you are stuck in the same confidentiality. But in this way, I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgment. Mr Voordewind's question was actually opposed to Mr Van Ojik's question on continuing support for the White Helmets. There is still an open amount of over €250,000. According to the knowledge we have now, we are contractually obliged to do so, but we find out how hard that is. I would be happy to inform the House of that. Mr Van Ojik has tabled a motion on the White Helmets, namely the motion on item No. 232, which is also in line with his speech in the debate. It invites the Government to assist White Helmets in improving monitoring and transparency, and to explore ways of continuing to support the humanitarian work they are doing. I've already indicated that I'm underestimating those odds. Now honesty commands me to say that, because this is ODA money, the primary responsibility lies with my colleague from BuHa-OS. I am prepared, if Mr Van Ojik wishes to continue the motion, to speak back with her for a moment. I have not been able to do so now and to reply in writing after that discussion. If I have to do it now, I'm gonna dissuade that motion, but I'm quite willing to back up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u682	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm prepared to do that. There can only be something that is better than what has now been announced by the Minister. I would point out to the Minister that the motion was deliberately made open. She's asking him to investigate the possibilities. I would very much appreciate it if the Minister too... That's not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u683	You're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u684	You concluded that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u685	At the request of Mr Van Ojik, I propose his motion (32623, No. 232), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 232/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u686	There's gonna be another written response. Then I come to the Karabulut motion on part No. 233, in which she renounces confidence in the minister. It won't be surprising that I betrayed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u687	That's really up to the Chamber and not the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u688	In her motion in part No. 234 asks Mrs Karabulut to do her own research. I would also advise against this because I believe that the route of Mr Omtzig's motion and the other signatories are more sensible in the future. Mr Koopmans agrees with that motion, which he also signed. Then Mr Kuzu calls in his motion for a resolution item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The government is active in Afghanistan and the anti-ISIS operation, among other things, with the support of the Chamber. An article 100 letter will be discussed again. Mr Kuzu's motion on item No. 236 I have to advise against. The motion calls for the cessation of support for groups fighting against each other. That would mean that the existing aid in Afghanistan or the support for the peshmerga would also have to be terminated, so I must also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u689	That's exactly the point. When I look at what has happened, I see that the coalition parties, supported by a number of opposition parties, have asked for a review framework. Is it an idea to do so until a review framework has been developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u690	I now have two motions in front of me that I must advise against. You're making a different proposal now. I don't have a motion for that. I've got a third. I'm going to dissuade them too, and I'll be happy to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u691	My question is about the second motion I tabled, about no longer providing support to groups that are fighting against each other or an opposition group that is fighting against a regime. We have seen that the Chamber is now asking for a review framework. My question to the Minister is whether we can suspend the support programmes until there is a review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u692	No, that doesn't make sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u693	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u694	... because Mr Omtzig's motion calls for a review framework for non-lethal support to armed groups. That is quite different from Mr Kuzu's second motion, which deals with any form of support for groups that are in conflict with each other. This includes the Afghan army and also the peshmerga. I continue to dissuade this motion, even with adjustments as Mr Kuzu has just mentioned. I do not recommend Mr Kuzu's motion in respect of item No. 237, which calls for a clear definition to be drawn up for terrorist organisations in consultation with the Minister for Justice and Security. The statement that there would be a discrepancy between Foreign Affairs and Justice is incorrect, as I pointed out in the debate. They are simply differences in responsibilities between the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is responsible for prosecution, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is involved in establishing an international terrorist list. Nor is there a Dutch terrorist list. We use the lists of the United Nations and the European Union. I don't recommend this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u695	A brief remark or question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u696	I really felt that the Minister and I were approaching each other on this point when I interrupted him in the previous period and that he was at least prepared to look into it. Now I see that he actually advises against the operative part, what we have discussed with each other, on the basis of consultations and considerations. I think that's what he just said: it's interesting to have a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u697	But I have to deal with the motion that has been tabled. I indicated during the debate that if a court ruling identifies an organisation as a terrorist organisation, it would be worth looking at that critically. But this motion goes much further, so I have to respond to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u698	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u699	The point the Minister wants to look at is a commitment. I hope he wants to inform the Chamber of what exactly he did after looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u700	I'm gonna need a court order for that first. Then I come to Mr Sjoerdsma...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u701	That's lame. That's really lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u702	No, Mr. Kuzu. You're just putting your motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u703	Yeah, I know. But in the past there have also been court rulings that the Minister can look at. It is very silly to say that we still need a court ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u704	I don't think you're gonna find each other at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u705	I don't think so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u706	I had promised Mr Sjoerdsma to look again specifically at the criterion for arms supplies. He specifically asked for the ML6.a. criterion. The delivered pickups are civil pickups. They do not fall under criterion 6.a and can be supplied. If detectors can distinguish between metal objects and mines, they are subject to a criterion. That'll be ML4. But the type of detector that was delivered here can't make that distinction. Sorry about the technique, but the answer remains that the goods delivered are not covered by the arms supply criteria. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether, in future, the international adviser could be given an independent opinion. The current contract expires in mid-2019. I think that this end is broadly in line with the fact that the investigation that the motion under which Mr Sjoerdsma's name is also mentioned will be available. With the combination of the information, I will look favourably at the new contract with the international consultant. I have already answered the question about how many groups have now been advised by the Netherlands independently. Mrs Kuik indicated that much remains open and that she therefore supports the motion. Then I come to Mr Baudet. In his motion, he calls for part No. 238 the government to appoint the Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate whether Koenders, Zijlstra and Blok have committed one or more offences. I have already indicated that in a rule of law it is very, very unusual for a government to give directions to the Public Prosecutor's Office and that the Public Prosecutor's Office is free to investigate whatever it wants. So I advise against this motion. Then his second motion, the motion in part No. 239. It begins with the observation that there is no realistic alternative to the Assad regime. I believe that this is a real contradiction to the commitment to a final solution led by the United Nations. I also consider the second recital, that the use of the Rutte Cabinets has only led to the continuation of bloodshed to be incorrect. The operative part which says: now that all support for armed and unarmed opposition groups in Syria is to cease, well, that has already happened and then publicly acknowledge that the Government of Assad has the legitimate state authority in Syria. This motion contains so many inaccuracies that I must discourage her. Then there is the last motion by Mr Baudet, the motion in part No. 240. It calls on the Government to settle with the Syrian Government to return all Syrian asylum seekers and status holders to their home country as soon as possible. At present there is still a very unsafe situation in Syria, with large-scale human rights violations. I sincerely hope that someday Syrians will be able to return to safe Syria, but at the moment this motion is not real and I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u707	I have a reaction to Minister Blok's comments, whose name offers less opportunities for misproclaiming than mine. Yes, it is. He says it's unusual for the D.A. to get directions from the Department of Justice. That is correct, but it is also very unusual for the Dutch state to support jihadist groups. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u708	Then we are going to repeat the debate, because here again there is the suggestion that the Dutch state has supported large-scale jihadist groups, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u709	I don't think I used the word "large-scale" in this question. The Dutch government has supported jihadist groups. That's very unusual. We are currently prosecuting someone who was involved in this organization. It is very strange if the Dutch State supports an organisation whose members are then prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor. It's not just a suggestion to ask whether we shouldn't straighten that out, should we let the Justice Department see if the D.A. has to deal with this? Surely you can't throw that away with the only argument that that's unusual? I'm sorry, but I think that's a very thin argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u710	Mr Baudet says: let's have a look. By which he means that the Minister of Justice is giving a lead to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is a very, very far-reaching intervention in the rule of law. I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u711	Then there is a difference of opinion. That is why we are going to vote on this motion. I thank the Minister for the answers. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes. Then we will vote on the motion of censure. It is customary to vote on this directly. Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u712	Madam President, I really need a moment, also to discuss with a number of other groups what we want to vote on. I just need to make Mr Blok's answers clear to me for a moment. So I'm asking for a slightly longer suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u713	We're going to vote on one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u714	It's about the motion of censure. That's one motion. But it is a major instrument; it is the toughest instrument that the Chamber can use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u715	Yes. We are going to vote on one motion, namely Mrs Karabulut's motion in which she...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u716	Sure, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-26.u717	...abandoning confidence in the Minister. Yeah, we're just gonna vote on that in five minutes.
