ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we have now come to the questions from Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP to the Prime Minister, whom I would like to welcome about the cancelled move from Unilever to Rotterdam. I see a number of group chairmen in the Chamber, who are probably going to interrupt. They are subject to the same rules as others regarding the duration of the interruption. It's 30 seconds. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	For years he was talking about it. He had $2 billion for it, and more than that. He didn't listen to the officials, not the experts, not the opposition and, perhaps the worst, he didn't listen to the people in the country. 2 billion, plus his credibility, had Prime Minister Rutte for it; anything to please his former colleagues at Unilever. Now what? Now he's being put in his shirt, embarrassed by his own friends. Rutte kept holding, but his friends decided differently. Unfortunately, Unilever is not coming to the Netherlands. Now this Prime Minister, who always said that this measure would not be taken for one company, suddenly rethinks the gift voucher of 2 billion to foreign shareholders, because one company decides otherwise. So it becomes clear that our country is not ruled by Mark Rutte at all. Our country is ruled by Unilever. This prime minister is acting like his errand boy. That which an entire country has been asking for for over a year, Unilever gets one phone call. For a year, this Prime Minister here defended the measure with all his fibers. The entire opposition got wiped out, because we would take irresponsible risks. Remember? We would risk the structure of the economy, simply because we did not want to give billions to foreign shareholders, but they wanted to invest here in Dutch society, where it belongs. Mr. Chairman. It's a disgrace on the part of the people's representatives. It's a contempt for democracy. Hours, days in this Parliament we talked about abolishing the dividend tax. But the Prime Minister didn't move a muscle. He is putting people's trust in this Prime Minister at risk and perhaps even worse: people's confidence in the functioning of our democracy. We do not want a prime minister working for the multinationals' cart. How does the Prime Minister intend to be credible and restore this shamed trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Marijnissen for this question. This coalition is trying to achieve a number of things. We want to invest in the public sector, we want to reduce the burden on people in the country, and we also want to ensure a good investment climate. Therefore, part of the coalition agreement and of all plans for next year, a whole package is aimed at the locational climate in the country. This is aimed at jobs, which are aimed at attracting businesses, keeping companies here and thus maintaining the jobs involved here. This concerns not only headquarters, but also all the other decisions taken by companies. Where did our investments in research and development, the suppliers of those companies, the consultants they hire, but also caterers and cleaners, come from? It is therefore very important that we have large international companies in this country, but also a lot of companies that deliver so that small and medium-sized enterprises can also benefit from them. Last Friday's announcement by Unilever is disappointing. That's just true; it's really disappointing. The cabinet has said it's crazy to just pass on this announcement. It is a relevant fact, and that is why we have decided to look again at the whole package for the location climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Prime Minister says it's weird to just keep steaming. But may I remind him that he just steamed through when his own officials said it wasn't right? He just steamed through when all the economists in the Netherlands said: this is not going to work. He just steamed through when he got a motion of censure from the entire opposition. Then the Prime Minister just steamed through. I wonder, did the Prime Minister learn from his mistakes? And how's he gonna do it? This time, may the elected representative of the people say something about it, before Prime Minister Rutte offers the multinationals another gift that we are stuck with? Mr. Chairman. We don't want a new debacle about memories of memos or memos that are or aren't there. So can the Prime Minister tell us whether he is already in contact with the multinationals about what should replace them? Is he prepared to talk to the Chamber about this first, before he continues on the ruinous road from the race down, to make multinationals more and more enjoyable at all costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. We did this on behalf of the Chamber. The Chamber asked the parties to see if they could agree on a coalition agreement. It worked out in the end. These were four parties: ChristianUnion, D66, CDA and VVD. It is an order of the Chamber to form a cabinet. Part of the cabinet's plans is that we say: there must be a good package for business. This package includes, for example, the approach of the mailbox bv's. I saw Mrs Marijnissen yesterday at a U2 concert. She knows the problem of mailboxes, for example; we want to address them. I think she agrees with me. What do you want to achieve in the end? That jobs remain here, that jobs come here and that there are enough R&D investments in this beautiful country. That package was in the coalition agreement. Mrs Marijnissen also asked about the contacts. In general, I have contact with a lot of people: with trade unions, with employers, with NGOs, with civil society organisations, with companies. We can be very open about this very often, and it is also in the public agenda, but that is not always possible. This can only be done if these organisations also accept public access.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	I find this unbelievable! The Prime Minister simply doesn't answer the question. For a year now we have been talking about abolishing the dividend tax and about 2 billion. But now it's about the question: who's in charge in this country? Unfortunately, that's not the people. Unfortunately, it is not the representative of the people. It's not even the cabinet. It's Paul Polman from Unilever. I really thought today that I had asked the Prime Minister to answer my questions to the Chamber, but I have been listening for minutes to someone who has taken such an interest in the multinationals' cart that he hasn't even noticed it himself. Mr. Chairman. I can't do that. And I know it can't actually be done, but I would actually like to make a motion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	And if that's not possible right now, I'll certainly do it when I get the opportunity. We are not letting the Prime Minister get away with this; we want a Prime Minister to be there for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	You have it. That's good news. That Prime Minister is here, because it is my job and that of the whole cabinet and of the entire coalition, with the support of many opposition parties, to ensure that there is employment in this country, that we bring together the money to invest in the public sector as well. As a result, it is now possible to spend 6 billion more on the quality of our public sector. But that money has to be paid somewhere. This is achieved by companies: small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. You need that whole range of companies. They also provide the majority of the jobs here in the Netherlands. So it's my job and the job of the entire cabinet and of the entire coalition to make sure that there are jobs here, stay and come. To this end, we agreed in the government agreement on a whole package aimed at our investment climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then I will go to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you look in the history books, you'll see that in the last hundred years, no Prime Minister has gone as far as Prime Minister Rutte. It's gone off like a watering can, not a little bit! He got a sledgehammer from his own friends from multinational Netherlands. He had to push the measure down the throat; it was called "melons" by his coalition members. No one in the Netherlands wanted that dividend measure. Then his old employer was the one, Madam President, who humiliated him most. He called and said: Mark, we don't want it; we want your money but we don't come to the Netherlands. So, Mr. Chairman, I actually only have one question. A prime minister who's screwed up like this, gone off like this, no one's supporting anymore, what are you still doing here? What are you still doing here? Why don't you resign? Why don't you just leave and free the Netherlands from the misery of Mark Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	Well, I don't see many points in this question of cooperation with Mr Wilders, I can see that. But I'm not gonna do it anyway, because it's not finished yet. In recent years, we have worked very hard in this country, also with the support of the opposition, to get the country out of the crisis. We have succeeded and we are now in a new phase. We need to make sure that we invest in the public sector, that we make people feel better about the country, including their wallet. At the same time, we worry about and propose solutions to other things that people are concerned about, such as integration, migration and so on. The Cabinet is working hard on that. That is an insanely beautiful challenge and an insanely beautiful assignment. That motivates me greatly to continue, despite Mr Wilders' uplifting words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	Second question. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Prime Minister can make a joke of it, but the whole of the Netherlands sees that what is there, the Prime Minister standing there, is wild and has zero authority, not only because of his blunder but also because he insists that the 2 billion should now go to companies, while the people throughout the Netherlands, even your own, think that that money should go to the citizens who paid for the crisis. So if you're gonna sit down, to my great regret, why don't you choose not to go through with the 2 billion VAT increase on groceries? Not the companies, the companies that stab you in the back, who don't want the 2 billion. Why don't you spend that money not to raise the groceries next year? If you don't, there are two reasons why you should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	Then Mr Wilders will have to tell the whole story. He only points to the VAT increase now, but the whole story is that this VAT increase, and much more, goes back into the wallet of hardworking Netherlands, that ultimately the burden of billions falls for workers, including the VAT increase. So it goes all the way back and there goes even more back, and that's also right because it has to be and-and in the coming years: and investing in the public sector and ensuring a good locational climate and ensuring that people in the country also notice in their wallets that things are going better. So Mr. Wilders will have to tell the whole story, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	This Prime Minister has really gotten a thump out of him. What a fiasco, the whole dividend tax. He still thinks he can get away with this in the House of Representatives; please. You withdraw this dividend tax because one company has said: we are no longer going to settle in the Netherlands. How can you say 'I feel that this is necessary for the Netherlands' to all my fibers? That's unbelievable. Mr President, I would like to make sure that the money that is now being released, now that the dividend tax is no longer going on, goes back to the lobby of big business. My very specific question to this Prime Minister is: give the House of Representatives and society an insight into all the lobby contacts that are currently in place with the big business and their lobbyists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	I have just answered that second question in the direction of Mrs Marijnissen. However, I would like to say a few words about Mr Klaver's introductory remarks. What this cabinet is trying to do, I think that this is crucial for this country, and it is important to ensure that, now that things are better, we do not neglect why things are getting better. First of all, it is better because 17 million people were willing to take difficult measures in the last few years, but also because we in this country, luckily, whether they are small businesses or medium-sized or large enterprises, have companies that are willing to undertake and invest here. This is crucial for employment, for jobs for very normal Dutch people. We should all stand up for that. This cabinet, in addition to investing in the public sector, in addition to reducing the burden on citizens, also aims to ensure that this is a country in which it is good to undertake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. This is truly unbelievable. I hope the Prime Minister can see that. This is completely unbelievable. Not so long ago we stood before the Political Reviews. Then the Prime Minister said: we are not taking the dividend tax measure for one company; it is important for the location environment for many companies in the Netherlands. Now there is one company that says it does not want to establish its head office in the Netherlands and the measure of abolishing the dividend tax is immediately withdrawn. It's unbelievable what the Prime Minister says here. I expect him to answer the specific question that I have asked, because we are not going to be sent away now. I want this cabinet to give an insight into all the contacts that are currently in place with the big business, with all the multinationals, with their lobbyists, with the top men and women. I want to know what contacts there are, because the money that has now been released, the EUR 2 billion, cannot go back to the big multinationals. I would like a commitment from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. I have just answered that question towards Mrs Marijnissen. I'll do it again, but I'm going to the first point first. That whole package aimed at our locational environment including the measure to abolish dividend tax aims to keep companies here, to bring companies here and to create a level playing field for when new companies emerge, the Booking.coms of the future; large companies that come out of the ICT revolution that have to choose where to settle, in England or here. To this end, the dividend tax measure is available. So it is not for one company, but to provide a level playing field with the UK. Then there was a relevant development last Friday. We have to weigh it again. You're not just gonna steam on when that happens. Now to Mr Klaver's second question. I just answered it. I have contacts with trade unions, with employers, with companies, with NGOs, with civil society organisations. I can be very open about this very often, and you will find them in the public agenda, but that is not possible for all contacts. This can only be done if the interlocutor also accepts that these contacts are public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. What a sad failure. We're seeing a prime minister in the robot stand here, when he should have just apologized. A week ago we were told here in the House of Representatives that you are taking an unacceptable risk with the structure of our economy if you do not abolish that tax. It's something. That has been said in this Parliament. But one call from Paul Polman on Friday morning and through the press conference we're going to reconsider again. If you're dealing with parliament like that, if you're using that kind of big words here that aren't worth anything, why would the House of Representatives or anyone else still believe this Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	Because there is a Prime Minister of a cabinet here that wants to make sure that now that the Netherlands is out of the crisis, we have all paid the price of that crisis in the Netherlands. There are still enough jobs in the future and there can be enough investment in the public sector, something that has not been possible in recent years because we had to cut back because of the serious crisis. We're done with that. Our economy is now growing twice as fast as the Belgian and French and more than one percent faster than the German. That is what I say to Mr Asscher, because we have also dared to take difficult measures in recent years. Mr Asscher was also involved. We must now ensure that these jobs remain here in the coming years and that jobs come to this end. There are a lot of things going on in the world right now. Think of the cheap money, the Brexit, the non-level playing field with the UK, but also all the other things where there is competition in Europe, such as business taxes. To this end, we have made a whole package in the coalition agreement. There was a relevant development last Friday. It makes sense that we weigh it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. It's not an answer to the question. It is indeed a kind of Rutte robot that keeps saying the same thing, but my question was specific. It was about what was said here. There's the man who believes in all his fibers that we should abolish the dividend tax, but one phone call later, and here's a man with no fiber, who is no longer a shadow of who he was. The question is sincere. You can't use that kind of big word here in the Chamber and take it away through a press conference. The question is: why would the Dutch, for whom this is incredibly important, value the words of this Prime Minister in this Chamber when he deals with the dividend tax in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	Because people know that this cabinet and this Prime Minister have the aim of ensuring, as we emerge from the crisis, that we all monitor that we keep our jobs at this high level. This requires companies to come here and stay here. To this end, we have made a whole package in the government agreement aimed at business. Part of that package is the abolition of dividend tax, an important measure to ensure a level playing field between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in a situation where a number of very large companies operate both in the United Kingdom and in the Netherlands. But there are relevant developments, like last Friday. You'll have to weigh it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	You'll only have followed Rutte's leadership, that you've let yourself get carried away in the adventure and that you believe it, too, that broad consideration, the location climate. You went on a trip with him. And at the first setback, at the first the best company that says it's not coming, Rutte actually says: yes, that adventure I wanted to take you into, is not going to happen at all; I'm going to reconsider that. Then what remains, I ask Mr. Rutte, of your credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	What we are doing is to ensure that, apart from keeping the country safe, we have a strong economic structure. That's my job. To this end, it is necessary to take all measures, not only for the citizens' wallet, not only for the public sector, not only to put public finances in order for the long term, not only to keep strong pensions and so on, but also to be a country in which it is attractive to invest. In this mix of measures, this is an important measure to ensure that there is a level playing field between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, especially if a number of large companies are involved and we also know that for that reason perhaps other companies would not want to come to the Netherlands if we maintain such a situation. At the same time, there has been a relevant development last Friday, showing that one of the largest companies in Europe has had to postpone a decision on whether the whole is coming to the Netherlands. That is a relevant fact. It makes sense that you weigh that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	The Prime Minister simply contradicts himself in this story. The first part is the story he has studied about the locational climate and about a level playing field, while the only person with 0% dividend tax is the United Kingdom. So there is no level playing field in Europe at all. Only, we follow the English in this case. That's a bad story. Either you believe that this is a good measure, but continue it. If you do not believe in it, you will say at the first setback that you are going to reconsider that measure. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	The measure is included in the package because a number of very large companies have to do with not having that level playing field. This concerns companies operating both in the United Kingdom, where no dividend tax is levied, and in the Netherlands, where dividend tax is levied. One of these very large companies has decided to postpone a decision to come fully to the Netherlands now, to take that back from the shareholders' meeting and to reconsider. That in itself is a relevant fact that should also be weighed. You can't just steam through when that happens. The measure itself is highly justifiable, not only because of the large companies, but also because other companies might be willing to come to the Netherlands and because there are companies, for example in the ICT sector, who have to ask themselves where they are going to settle. They have something to do with this, too. In their choice of location, they often choose between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	I have heard the Prime Minister say three times now, the last time was just to Mr Azarkan..... that the dividend tax should actually be abolished because of the level playing field between the Netherlands and England. There are two companies involved in this and potentially a third, which is not currently in the picture. Isn't that the whole debate that you first drew very widely to the economic structure of the Netherlands that was in danger of 'we must ensure that we do the same thing that England is doing, namely abolishing the dividend tax'? That's a weird argument, isn't it? You pull it wide first and then we'll talk in the Chamber like Brugman for a year. And then another man, Mr. Polman, calls you on Friday morning, saying, "We're not coming to the Netherlands." Then you'll reconsider. Either you stick to your proposal because it was broad, but not anymore or you are withdrawing it now. What are you gonna do, and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Van Rooijen must quote me completely. I would like to point out a few very large companies operating both in the United Kingdom and in the Netherlands. I would point out that because of the Brexit there are other companies in the UK who can consider coming to Europe. I would point out that there are major investments in the world in the field of ICT. The Netherlands has some of those very large companies, which, when choosing between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, also look at these aspects of taxation, of business tax situations. Then not having a level playing field is a disadvantage for the Netherlands. This is bad for the structure of our economy. That is why the whole business package includes this measure. It is important for the structure of our economy to have that measure. At the same time, last Friday, one of those very large companies decided to reconsider a positive decision for the Netherlands from the management to come to the Netherlands and to remove that point from the shareholders' meeting. That is also a relevant fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	We have had a debate on bacon and beans for a year now. I told Minister Hoekstra that last week. Can you tell me when this review will come to an end? We have to ask questions about the Tax Plan tomorrow. Surely we cannot begin to do so if you do not say in another debate today or tomorrow: we are withdrawing this measure, or we are maintaining it. Otherwise we will not be able to deal with the legislative proposal on withholding tax 2020. We're a joker here. Mr. Polman calls and walks right through the porcelain cabinet, and we can't do our job anymore! That is not an orderly parliamentary treatment of a tax plan, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	We will do so as soon as possible, but we will do so step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	No, no, no, no, Mr. Van Rooijen. Not anymore. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	In fact, I thought it was special that a chamber motion asking for alternative plans for the abolition of the dividend tax was rejected first and then carried out. That is a special gesture in the direction of the opposition, although it has been a while and it needed a little more. But I thought the question raised by Mr Van Rooijen was correct. It is important to clarify it quickly. When does the Prime Minister think that there can be that clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	We'll do that as soon as we can. But I can't stick that in a day or a week. We'll do it as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	I assume that 'as soon as possible' means that the treatment of the Tax Plan, which is part of this proposal, can simply make timely progress, so that not only for the Chamber but, more importantly, also for the people and businesses in the country, they know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	Of course, in this planning, the cabinet also looks at the fact that the Chamber is currently talking, or at least starting to talk in writing, about the Tax Plan and looks at what that means for the deadlines. That is, of course, part of the precise planning, of course. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	The Animal Party is deeply concerned about the absolute self-evident nature with which the Prime Minister apparently sees the interests of large business as one-on-one equal to the public interest. There is no Dutchman who thinks: that prime minister is standing before me. Everyone thinks that prime minister is standing there for Unilever. He has tried to convince society that we would take an "unresponsible risk" if we did not abolish the dividend tax. Friday turns out that's not true. Now, here in The Hague this morning, a ruling has been passed by the court in which the judge spoke of "a real and imminent danger" of climate change, which this cabinet does not do enough against. The Prime Minister has one chance to show all these citizens that he really stands for the common good, namely by admitting now and saying: we are not going into cassation and the money we save is going into climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have only one interest here: the national interest, the Dutch interest. This means in this case: jobs in the Netherlands. For jobs, we need a strong economy, a strong structure of our economy, a strong small business life, a strong medium-sized business, but also large companies, so that we can create the jobs for the people in the country and also raise the taxes that are necessary for our education and health care. In addition to her questions, Mrs Ouwehand points to another development that was taking place today. Of course, the cabinet will do what the judge asks. Of course, court rulings are followed. So that's what we'll do. We are also considering a case, not because we would not execute the judgment, but because we want to judge it in principle, we are now looking at whether we are going into cassation or whether it is up to the judge to take this kind of administrative, political decisions. The verdict is there, and so it is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	The Prime Minister continues to insist in his mantra that what he sees as the public interest is also the public interest, while the whole of the Netherlands sees that the Prime Minister here is trying to sell the interests of multinationals as the public interest. Now the judge says for the second time: if there is a real and imminent danger, then that is climate change. The Prime Minister calls it euphemistic: there has been a development this morning. The cabinet has been hit hard, and the only thing this Prime Minister can do to save his credibility is say: I am going to stand for the public interest, we are shocked, we are deeply ashamed and we are now going to work on climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand now combines two topics. I'd like to tear them apart anyway. One issue is that I stand here, that the cabinet stands here for jobs in the Netherlands. The task of politics is to keep the country safe and ensure a strong economy in which people can also get to work. This may be in the government, but in many cases it may also be in the business community. Business has an important additional function, except for all the good jobs and innovation, which is to ensure that we, citizens and businesses, are able to raise the money to invest in education and to invest in health care. Then her second question about the Urgenda pronunciation. I just answered that. Of course, we are carrying out judgments. If the cabinet says that it is considering going into cassation, it is not because we would not implement that ruling, but because we still want to weigh with the judiciary in the Netherlands in principle whether this is a task for the judge or a task for politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u42	In his reply to Mr Asscher's questions, the Prime Minister referred to the answers he would have given to my question, but I have not actually heard them myself. That is why I would like to ask this question again. We have had the General Reviews here, we have had the Financial Reviews, we have been talking here for hours and days about abolishing the dividend tax and nothing could happen. The hammer had not yet fallen after the Financial Reviews whether the phone rang, Unilever called and suddenly everything could. The question has quite rightly been put by me and by Mr Asscher and I ask him again. I think you should answer the question of how to avoid a new chapter in this dividend debacle where the coalition is going to decide again in the back room where the billions present should go. How are you going to ensure that it is discussed here, in the elected parliament, where it belongs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u43	We are talking here about the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement, a whole passage is devoted to the locational climate. So this transcends the cabinet. The cabinet is, say, the contractor of the four coalition groups. We are talking here about the coalition agreement and we want to weigh that passage again in the coalition agreement. That's what we do in the coalition. We will do so step by step, and as soon as it is done, you will receive proof of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u44	I don't believe this. I really thought we had called the Prime Minister to the Chamber, but we might as well ask Unilever's spokesman next time. I really think this is a debacle and, if there was any credibility of the Prime Minister on this point, it will, I think, be gone after today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u45	I will leave that to Mrs Marijnissen, but it was good to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you. That brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall say goodbye to Mr Pechtold of D66.
