ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u1	The next item is the merger of the municipalities of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik, and modification of the border between the provinces of Utrecht and Zuid-Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u2	I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I thought: the subject is scheduled a little later in the evening, let me take the time generously to make my contribution. But I'm not sure I can do that to colleagues. I had wonderful reflections about five lord countries, about the territory of the past, but I'm just skipping it. Mr President, I am sorry to have to let you do that, but perhaps, if you miss it very much, I can do something for you later in the pastoral sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u4	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is certainly not a novelty for this area to develop administrative cooperation. That's a much older date. The support of the municipalities concerned Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik is present, but there are still a few questions. An exciting question was of course: which province does the new municipality of Vijfheerenlanden come to? Let me sum it up: we are at peace with it, we can live perfectly with it that was chosen for the province of Utrecht, although we immediately say that we are also confident that the new municipality under the province of Zuid-Holland would have been in good hands. We do not need to question this point. Administratively, there are still a few questions. First of all, I would like to mention the unbundling of legal partnerships. That's kind of new to this bill. Specifically, the choice for a new province means that Vianen and Zederik are now obliged to move to the Utrecht security region. Legally, that makes sense, but it's a massive veining for the leftovers. The SGP would like to ask the Minister to pay attention to this mandatory exit from the security region, the GGD and the environmental service. How will the rest of the region be prevented from being affected? What does this retirement mean for maintaining quality in work in the security region? The SGP asks the Minister, pursuant to Article 41 (7) of the General Rules Act, to ensure that these legally required regions are compensated for the costs they incur as a result of this reclassification. The specific question to the Minister: does it want to give clear guarantees for the continuous and financially sound continuation of the work of these partnerships without taking the one-on-one account to the municipalities? In the case of voluntary partnerships, the problem of cohesion within the region arises. In particular, we are thinking of the partnership within the housing market and with social services. This concerns, first and foremost, a local and regional issue. We trust that there will be good results in the region and that existing partnerships on a regional scale can continue to progress. Perhaps the Minister can promise that she will continue to follow that process, whether through the province or not. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the point about Gorinchem. This municipality has a centre function in the region and remains small but brave. Asterix and Obelix...................................................................................................................................................................................... We wonder whether the position of the municipality of Gorinchem is sustainable in this form. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. We are looking forward to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u7	Mr. Chairman. I know the region well. When I studied philosophy in Rotterdam I lived for years in Lexmond, behind the church above the café. There was a lot of hustle and bustle in Rotterdam and that was not good for a young philosopher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u8	And the combination with a cafe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u9	Precisely Chairman. In combination with the beautiful coast, excuse me, the beautiful shore of the Lek, where you could walk and let your thoughts blow out, it was good there. But Zederik doesn't really exist. Lexmond exists, Ameide exists and Meerkerk exists. If you look at it from the outside, it all seems pretty much the same: about the same villages in the same region. But when you live there, you see how deep the difference is. Then you can see that that municipality has never really become a unit because Lexmond is something quite different from Meerkerk, let alone Ameide, Tienhoven or Leerbroek. Those are other communities. Then I'm not even talking about Hei- and Boeicop. Mr Bishop can confirm that. When you look at it from that perspective, don't you think that these villages are compatible with Leerdam and Vianen? That's just a really weird idea. That's a really weird idea. There are all kinds of partnerships now, but apparently they weren't good enough. And because these partnerships didn't work out well, it all has to be one municipality. In addition, a number of municipal councils have said that they want to join the province of Utrecht and the others have said that they want to join the province of Zuid-Holland. This will be the province of Utrecht, but Zuid-Holland is very opposed to that. There's gonna be a lot of stuff. Then the security region, the GGD, the environmental service and everything must be adapted. Then I read again in the documents that there is another advisory committee and that there is also a project leader. Then I think, well, there's gonna be a lot of people making a lot of money. How many consultants, how many advisors and how many managers have been hired and how much is that going to cost? And why? If the municipality of Zederik hasn't really become a unit, how about Leerdam and Vianen? And what about those two? The minister says again in the documents: even if the new municipality is there, there must be all kinds of new partnerships. Those partnerships should be in the province of Utrecht, but also in the province of Zuid-Holland. Well, then I see it happening again. Then we'll have all kinds of collaborations with all kinds of cross-border traffic between provinces. Then we're all gonna have trouble again. I'll see the coming redeployment coming up. Then we get a municipality called Five Lord Lands, while part of the municipality of Zederik lies in the Alblasserwaard. So that's definitely not right. Then we already have 54,000 people. And then we're gonna get to the next reclassification, probably close to the 100,000: the secret plan that apparently lies somewhere in a drawer, deep in the ministry. I don't like it all, I like it all rumbling and I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u12	I now give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u13	Thank you, Mr President. After the previous speaker, I would like to say that this is once again a reclassification that these three municipalities would like. These three municipalities have been waiting for this reclassification for years. It's that the provinces needed some time, but this is a nice reclassification from below, if I may put it that way. That should appeal to the SP too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u14	You shouldn't have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u15	No, I know. It's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u16	Mr. Van Raak sat down for a moment. I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u17	How do you know that? How does the VVD know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u18	Well, look at what the city councils voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u19	And that's from the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u20	Look, you know the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u21	Yeah, I know the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u22	We are in favour of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u23	Yeah, I know the VVD. I was talking, too. I know the VVD, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u24	We are in favour of representative democracy. We have faith in the city councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u25	Mr President, can there be any order in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u26	Yes. Mr. Van den Bosch, if you'll just wait a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u27	I'll hold, Mr. Chairman. It's late. I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u28	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u29	Exactly. Because that's exactly what happens to VVD drivers. They're gonna be like that in relation to the population. They're gonna make a decision and say, "We all agree" and that's good. Have the people in Zederik, in Lexmond, in Ameide, in Meerkerk, in Tienhoven, in Hei- en Boeicop or in those other municipalities, in Leerdam or Vianen, been able to express their views on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u30	I think it's contempt for democracy. There are three municipal councils. These three municipal councils support this decision. Of course, there will be people in the population who are against the decisions of these municipal councils. There always will be. But it is democratically guaranteed. They are democratically elected representatives of the people who have said that the three of us want to form one marriage together. A long time ago, by the way, because they've been working on this for years. That is fine for the VVD group, because then it is democratically legitimized, just as we do here in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u31	Then I'm gonna make a proposal later to cancel the VVD. We are all democratically elected here. Then we're gonna lift this, lift it. Local democracy belongs to the population and the people must express their views on it. How big is a city? How big is our community? And that a VVD doesn't understand anything about that anymore, I can imagine. But that's not the point. This debate is not about what VVD people think. It's about what people in those cores find, what people in that area find. It's their democracy. Shall we simply organise a referendum there, or a referendum? Why don't we just ask these people what they think? If the people, the inhabitants of that newly formed congregation say "it's a great idea," then you won't hear me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u32	This is, of course, going to be quite a state-of-the-art discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u33	You had begun, Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u34	When municipal councils decide to hold a referendum, they should do so in particular. It's allowed under the law, too. I'm fine with that. But Mr Van Raak cannot deny that ultimately in a democracy municipal councils are about it and finally make the decision on behalf of the people. We don't agree on that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u35	No, no, no, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u36	That is not the case! This is about democracy. People choose their drivers, their representatives. They're going to build houses, they're going to build roads, they're going to invest in green, in care, in reintegration, but they're not about democracy. The representatives are the representatives of people. The representatives cannot say that their bosses, their voters, those who elected them, are being sidelined. I find the VVD's concept of democracy really curious, and also dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u37	I've been a city councilman in a big city for years. I've always felt like I was there on behalf of the people. Maybe not on behalf of the entire population, but at least on behalf of the people who voted for VVD. I've always tried to represent them. I really think it's a dedain response to the city councils. Apparently, the SP group in South Holland thought the same thing, but well, he didn't think the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u38	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u39	I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna have that discussion sometime. As I said, the VVD Group is pleased that this reclassification is now in place. It's really coming from the bottom. We're really behind that, too. I too know the area, I say to the SGP Group. I know these three municipalities really want it. As far as we are concerned, the change in the provincial border is also fine. It is a great challenge to show that one can finally look beyond the boundaries of the province to a bright future of the municipalities involved. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, borders should never be an obstacle to something that is a great wish of the local government. However, my group has a few questions and comments on the unbundling of the common rules and the cost of friction, because that is a challenge. I'd like to hear from the Minister how that process is going. We ask this because, in addition to all the optimistic noises in the area, there are concerns among the various other municipalities about, for example, the unbundling of the security regions. Then of course, it's always about money. According to the Minister, does the current budget of these reclassifications meet, including all the consequences of the unbundling of the security regions? The VVD Group wants this reclassification to be a success and that we do not suddenly face financial setbacks. The Minister has indicated his wish to bring to a successful conclusion the process of exit and entry into operation in cooperation with the parties concerned. That is why the VVD wishes to emphasise that directional function of the department and the minister here once again, but would like to be in cooperation and under the responsibility of the Deputy States of both provinces. I always call the Minister the Minister of the Mother Department. It's good that we can say that again. I think they've waited years for BZK to say they are again, the mother department. Or the father's department, but that's up to the minister himself. I would like to hear from the Minister how she would fulfil this role. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Van den Bosch. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u41	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. We've got 12 reclassifications. Nine take place in the same debate and three in a separate debate. They deserve special attention for various reasons. The reclassification to five lord countries of Leerdam, Zederik and Vianen, who have the desire to move forward together, is complex. It crosses county boundaries. They're coming to the province of Utrecht. At least if the bill is followed that way. But that is not such a simple transition, because it means that a number of networks must be unraveled because they are regulated at municipal and provincial level. It's about the security region, the G.D.D.'s and the environmental service. These are all very essential services for every municipality. That needs to be properly arranged. The Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is therefore actively involved in managing this. I do have a number of questions for the Minister. Can the Minister promise that the unbundling of legal partnerships will be settled before 1 January 2019, taking into account also the cohesion of the regions and the financial position of the laggards? Can this also happen without undesirable consequences, such as the lifting of paramedics in the rural area, for example? A while ago, the Minister indicated that there is a committee with a project leader appointed to optimize the transition. That committee has made agreements with the associations concerned. According to the Minister, there is a will to ensure continuity of the level of provision. I would like to ask about the state of play here. Can the committee actually complete the work before 1 January? What arrangements have been made? How much work remains to be done? Is the process of unbundling going to take longer and what problems do we face? Can the Minister go into that, because then we really get a bit of a picture of the situation. One of the points in that transition is the lack of clarity as to the distribution of the costs involved. It has been agreed that the municipalities should resolve this between themselves. If that doesn't work, the county's gonna jump in. But if that does not lead to a solution, then the decision will be lodged with the Ministry. The Christian Union considers that the distribution of costs should not be at the expense of the level of provision in the municipalities concerned. We do not yet know exactly what the costs are, what they should be incurred for and how they should be distributed. Is there any news on that? Are the Ministry's contributions to the transition sufficient? And does the minister think that the municipalities will come out with the division? I would like a reflection from the Minister on that. I would also like to draw attention to the non-legislative partnerships. They exist in areas such as the labour market, social employment and housing markets. How does the Minister view the consequences of the departure of Leerdam and Zederik for the working region of Gorinchem, to which these municipalities are currently affiliated? If Leerdam and Zederik leave that labour region, this will also have consequences for Avres, the social employment services. This may affect the position of the most vulnerable groups in the region and the employees of Avres. Can the Minister comment on the additional consequences of this reclassification for this particular group? Mr. Chairman. The last point concerns the position of housing corporations in the municipalities of Leerdam and Zederik on one side and Vianen on the other. The areas are subject to different waiting times. The corporations involved are divided, we understand. It's hard to get out, too, with the municipal authorities. How does the Minister view this? In what direction does the Minister see the solution to the problems here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u43	I forget to mention what I would have liked to start with, namely that the Christian Union is in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u44	Thank you. Good to know. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the reclassification in the north of the country, we are now considering a special reclassification in the middle of our country: the reclassification of Leerdam, Vianen and Zederik. It is a special one because this reclassification transcends the provincial boundaries. That also makes it a little more complicated. The three municipalities concerned agree that they want to merge, from the bottom up. The question was only which province the new municipality will be in. Zuid-Holland and Utrecht didn't come out together, but the minister finally chose Utrecht after advice. Mr. Chairman. My group fully understands that these three municipalities are being merged to strengthen administrative power and to maintain public service, especially after all decentralisations. At the same time, however, we have some concerns about the merger and its impact on a number of common regulations. We have heard concerns about various common schemes, such as the security region, the social domain and the labour market region. What does this reclassification mean for these common arrangements? How does the Minister view these concerns? How is it going to prevent these concerns from causing problems? What does this reclassification mean for the common arrangements in which the municipalities now participate? What are the consequences for the participating municipalities? Are the remaining municipalities sufficiently capable of maintaining the facilities or should measures be taken to this end? Mr. Chairman. The new municipality to be formed will soon cover a large area. GroenLinks considers it very important that the inhabitants of the entire municipality can make accessible use of the facilities. We also drew attention to this in the written round of questions. I would like to ask the Minister to explain here this evening how access to the facilities is guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u46	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u47	Mr. Chairman. I asked for 10 minutes, but I'm not gonna use them. I already saw your look: spare us that, because it's just after 11:00. I'll do my best. Mr. Chairman. It is not common for this Chamber to decide at once on a reclassification of three municipalities and immediately pushes the border of provinces. But that should be possible. Municipalities are mostly about their future. It graces the province of Zuid-Holland that it has finally gained the generosity to accept the new provincial border. The CDA Group also understands that this has not been an easy decision. But the reclassification of five lord countries has broad support. There is talk of a municipal reclassification at the bottom. Partly for this reason, it can bear the warm support of the CDA group, even when it comes to the choice for the province of Utrecht. I note that the municipality has already indicated that it would like to continue to cooperate even after the reclassification, for example in the area of Alblasserwaard, which is wider. I think that's good, too. Why would a border keep you from doing that? Moving the provincial border does give some administrative headaches. For example, the municipality of Five Lord countries is in several legally mandatory common regulations. Moving from one scheme to another is complicated and costs money. And before, the Chamber called on you to contribute to a solution in this area. You've already taken a step in that. Nevertheless, like the other political groups, including Christian Union, I would like to ask D66, as I had already discussed with Mrs Den Boer and the VVD, some questions about the costs of unbundling. This must be done in a proper way, because in the event of a reclassification, unbundling should not become a hot potato that is pushed forward endlessly. I would like to ask the Minister some questions about this. We are considering tabling a motion in this area as well, if necessary. In the answer to the written questions submitted on the reclassification of Vijheerenlanden, the Minister already states that the ball is initially with the municipalities and only in the last instance with the minister, should the parties not come out, with the provinces in between. I would like to hear from the Minister how she is looking at the signals from, among other things, the security regions that the resolution is still difficult at the moment. What role, for example, does the Minister see for the guidance committee, which she has already set up initially, in order to reach some further agreement? Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group that this unique construction, the resetting of the provincial border, should continue to keep the Minister's explicit attention, so that, in a very reasonable time, a number of steps can be taken in the direction of unbundling and to manage this in a very acceptable way? I also agree with the comments made by other groups on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'll be a little less than seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u48	Nice, thank you very much. Mrs Den Boer has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u49	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about a special reclassification. It is the only reclassification of the twelve in which there is a change in the provincial border. Two municipalities, Leerdam and Zederik, move from Zuid-Holland to Utrecht, where together with Vianen form the new municipality of Vijfheerenlanden. Mr. Chairman. My group notes that the current reclassification complies with the rules, the so-called policy framework established for a reclassification. The municipal councils have initiated the reclassification process. There have been talks with the people, and then they have jointly approved the reclassification. Looking at the landscape, cultural and historical characteristics of the municipalities, they fit well together. A merger will also lead to a municipality with strong governance and a stronger official staff. The reclassification creates a municipality that can measure itself in scale with its Utrecht neighboring municipality. Finally, the new municipality is expected to remain independent for a long period of time, and together they are financially viable. In short: D66 is positive about this reclassification. The tricky point is, of course, the change in the provincial border. This is particularly difficult because of the above-mentioned unbundling of the partnerships between the municipalities. By changing the provincial border also changes the classification of, for example, the security regions, the GGD and the environmental services. Reports received by my group show that this is quite a job. The Ministry has acted vigorously by chairing the advisory committee in which the three municipalities and the two provinces are represented. There is a need to agree on the impact of the reclassification on the partnerships in order to create a smooth transition. I would therefore ask the Minister what is the current state of affairs. Is it confident that the arrangements will be made in time... well before 1 January 2019...................................................................................................................................................................................... It is important for D66 that services, such as security, continue to operate continuously. Can the Minister guarantee that? Is the unbundling, in particular of non-legislative partnerships, such as the labour market and housing market regions, also taking into account the cohesion of the region, such as Gorinchem's position in the labour market region and the financial position of those who are lagging behind? How does the Minister see its own system responsibility for the labour market and housing region? Mr President, one more question about the cost of changing the provincial border. The Minister writes that the financial consequences of the start-up and start-up of the partnerships still need to be worked out. My group has heard that there is still no agreement as to who is to bear these costs. I'm asking the Minister if that's true. Does it envisage the cost of unravelling legal partnerships in this particular area? Finally, Mr President. D66 sees that the municipality of Vijfheerenlanden creates a beautiful municipality with sufficient financial impact that is and can be able to respond to social issues, such as youth care. They will be stronger in the region than the three municipalities separately. However, there are still concerns about shifting the provincial border. We hope the Minister will be able to deal with these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u50	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. The Minister is requesting a suspension of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u51	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u52	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. Also in view of the clock I try to treat them a bit bundled. This is indeed a reclassification that the municipalities concerned quickly agreed on, but where the issue of the province was at stake. My predecessor intervened in that too. In the end, a choice had to be made. I believe that this has been done very carefully. That's why we're right where we are. I'll drop right into the house answering the questions. A lot of questions have been asked about partnerships. Work is still under way to identify the impact of the change on the classification. Let me start with the legally defined partnerships. How is this to be done in these legal partnerships is, moreover, all described in the law. The process is based on the principle that the costs of entry and exit should be reduced. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also plays a role in this. From a legal point of view, it is normal for the participants in the partnerships, i.e. the municipalities, to agree on their financial consequences. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs can facilitate and support this. Maybe I can leave it at that. Then there's the cost. They should actually be mapped out in the same process. Then, of course, agreements must be made on the sharing of costs. I think it is primarily up to the participants themselves to establish this and to take fairness as a guideline. Should it be the case that the participants themselves would not come out, Utrecht and Zuid-Holland can still consult each other about this. And if the provinces didn't come out of it, I could also play a role in it, and that could eventually even be established by royal decree in a set-off amount. But I don't suppose that's all necessary. There were, of course, specific questions about the process description. Mrs Özütok also asked whether the municipality should actually pay for this. No, it simply needs to be distributed fairly and fairly and in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u53	There is no mini-law here yet, or it should be clear how much it costs up to three digits behind the decimal point. And here we have a reclassification where everything still has to be done. The municipalities need to get out of partnerships. They need to get back together. They must come from provinces and again in provinces, and vice versa, and vice versa. Safety regions, GGDs, environmental services: everything needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u54	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u55	All kinds of expensive consultants have been hired to do that. They're already in the middle of a big meeting and writing papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u56	Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u57	What's all this gonna cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u58	Estimates have been made, I could say to Mr Van Raak. It's in the law. It is special, because it crosses a provincial border, but it really only requires care, elaboration and fairness. There are estimates on the part of the partnerships, but I do not think it is wise at all to go along with them. I think it would be wiser to take account of what will happen in the near future and whether the parties will be able to do so in a reasonable manner. One becomes a larger partnership, and the other becomes a less large partnership. So there has to be a shift.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u59	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u60	There are estimates. The Minister himself says very wisely, wisely when she has become this evening: "I am not going to stick to all that. I'm sure all that's gonna go away. I don't trust any of that." And she's right, because once a consultant is writing, he's not gonna stop. But we can't pass a law here when we don't know by God how expensive it's all gonna be? Again, if we adopt a mini-law here, it has to be up to three digits behind the decimal point. And here the minister says, "Let's do this. Let's put these municipalities together. Let's throw that whole middle management upside down. Let's turn the provinces around and turn inside out. Then at the end we'll see how much that has cost."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u61	No. In fact, I note that the fact that it crosses a provincial border in this particular case has consequences. Those are actually just the result of the way the law is put together. I then note that this law also describes exactly how this is to be done, and I am confident that the participants will come out in agreement. I just described the escalation ladder, too, in case it's not. Once again, there is a current situation and there will be a new situation. That's where we need to work. It must also be implemented before 1 January next year. I think that's possible. I also assume that the bill can be distributed fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u62	"Honestly" is one of the basic elements of the discussion. This is difficult, also because the Empire has imposed a number of obligations. There are also voluntary partnerships, because they simply think that is the best option. But the minister is also here on behalf of the cabinet. And there are statutory regulations. I can very well follow the Minister's story; that's what it says in the law. But I would just like to hear a little more from the Minister about her involvement and her responsibility. In this unique case, with legal regulations, we can also expect something from the Minister when it comes to monitoring the process. And we want to know how we're going to handle this properly in future cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u63	I understand that remark. I have just said that the participants do this to a high degree in mutual consultation, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is involved as a facilitator and facilitator of that process. These are just officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as I say to Mr Van Raak, who is very concerned about consultants tonight. BZK officials also cost money, but they're a lot cheaper than consultants. I think it is right that Mr Van der Molen, on the one hand, would like to know how that goes in this process and, on the other hand, that we should be able to learn from it for possible future cases. I am certainly prepared to inform the Chamber on this from the guidance role that the Ministry now has, if that is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u65	I think I have answered the questions about costs. Mr Bishop, who started tonight, had a question about the position of the municipality of Gorinchem. He asked whether the reclassification would have potential consequences for Gorinchem, which is considered a centre municipality, an administrative municipality. As the province of South Holland itself pointed out, I think that this particular position of Gorinchem as a regional centre deserves special attention, but that there can also be every confidence that that position can remain so. Municipalities themselves also have an interest in continuing to work well together. The relationship between Gorinchem as a centre municipality and the surrounding rural communities can continue to function well. I understand that a regional social agenda has also been drawn up for this. I have already mentioned the role of the guidance committee and the role of the project leader in it. Ms Özütok asked if the remaining municipalities were able to maintain their facilities. There's no reason to doubt that. I therefore assume that these municipalities will be able to do so, that the facilities can simply be maintained. Some of Mrs Van der Graaf's questions have also been asked by others. I have just spoken about legal partnerships, but she also focused on non-statutory partnerships, such as the labour market region and the housing market region. Action has also been taken on this, just by the municipalities themselves. The three municipalities have committed themselves to joint, joint services by Avres and Werk en Inkommen Leekstroom, which is part of Vianen, for a transitional period in 2019, so that the social services are maintained. They are investigating new forms of service, which will soon fit into the wider area, in the area of work and income, the Participation Act and the impact on the labour market region. I agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that it is very important that this happens in a good way, even in the future. The same is true of the housing market region. The new municipality can only belong to one housing market region. A choice will therefore be made between two regions. The three municipalities and the most important corporations in these municipalities are in consultation with a view to reaching a joint opinion, which they will issue to the minister. There isn't yet. Research is still being carried out and the consequences are even better reflected. This study should, among other things, reflect the impact on residential residents, housing corporations and the housing market region as a whole. The opinion is expected at the end of May this year, so rather soon. Mr President, that was short but powerful. These were, in my view, the main themes. I hope that I have answered the questions sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u66	Thank you. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Then I'll see who wants to speak. Mrs. Van der Graaf? No? Mrs. Özütok? Yes. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. On my question whether the remaining municipalities are sufficiently capable of maintaining the facilities or of taking measures to do so, the Minister says that she assumes that this will not be the case. But there are some concerns in the municipalities. Can the Minister go into this in more detail? And is the Minister also prepared to offer a helping hand in the event of problems? That was my last question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u68	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Mr Van der Molen has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u69	Mr. Chairman. Two issues have been raised, some of which consider it important to table a motion on them. The first is the common rules and the second is the position of Gorinchem in the region, which the Minister has already mentioned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that changing the border between the provinces of Utrecht and Zuid-Holland entails unbundling of legal partnerships (safety region, GGD and environmental service);]] [[noting that a monitoring committee has been set up for this process and that a project leader has been appointed;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the municipalities concerned, to minimise the costs of unbundling legal partnerships, to settle the matter further and to inform the Court thereof before 1 December 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Molen, Van der Graaf and Van den Bosch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34824-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u70	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the municipality of Gorinchem in the region of Alblasserwaard-Vijerenlanden has a centre function on the basis of historical developments and the current supply of important services, employment and training;]] [[noting that Gorinchem is the smallest municipality in the region after the formation of the municipalities of Altena, Molenlanden, Vijfheerenlanden and West-Betuwe;]] [[Whereas the region needs a strong central municipality with sufficient development space for the survival of important regional facilities;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how to maintain the centre function of Gorinchem in order to ensure balanced regional relations and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 January 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Molen, Van den Bosch, Den Boer and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34824-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u71	Yeah, sure. Maybe I can answer Mrs Özütok's question first. I did say that there is no reason to doubt the level of provision in the surrounding municipalities. Mrs Özütok now goes on to say: can we keep a closer eye on this and perhaps you too would like to play a role in this from BZK? I think it would be wise to keep your finger on the pulse and ask the municipalities themselves and the province to pay attention. So I'd like to say so. Then there are the two motions. I heard them right, but I'm getting them on paper now, too. That's nice. The motion in part No. 7 belongs to Mr Van der Molen. There are also the names Van der Graaf and Van den Bosch underneath. That motion calls on the government to reduce the costs of unbundling legal partnerships, to settle and to inform the Chamber before 1 December. I read the motion in such a way that the Chamber calls on the government to give the best possible support to the parties concerned, especially in terms of unbundling, in terms of financial settlement and in terms of their efforts to further regulate it. I have just said, in my first term, that that is the purpose, not only of those involved, but also of BZK. That ministry supports the process. In that sense, I actually read the motion as a support for the course we have now entered and I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u72	That's nice. Thank you for that. It is indeed an expression of the importance we attach to a proper settlement. The Minister has said that she wants to do the same. But we want a moment to go along with it to let the Chamber know what is going on, because we really think it is important to be able to follow exactly what steps are still being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u73	That's noted. I will ensure that; at least there is still a vote to be taken on the motion, but I am going to do so anyway. The motion in part No. 8 calls on the government to ask the province of South Holland to explore whether and, if so, to retain the centre function of Gorinchem and to inform the Chamber thereof. I have just said that it is not only my assessment that this can be done, but also that of the province. They're working on that, too. So I understand the appeal in this motion very well. It's consistent with what I just outlined. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u74	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-27.u75	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions for resolutions tabled and on the legislative proposal. I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and, above all, the people in the public gallery. I would also like to thank the people who have followed this debate in a different way and, of course, the staff.
