ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on National Energy Exploration 2017. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and also the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For all those who are listening, it might be good to mention that this debate is also about the cabinet commitment in the negotiations on the climate agreement. They're very topical. Honestly, they're partly tracking down the National Energy Exploratory. Before I go into the content, I would like to begin by complimenting the Minister. I think he shows on many dossiers that he wants to make pace, but also shows learning ability and moving insight. I will come back to that in detail later, but he can already take those compliments. GroenLinks wants a robust and just climate policy. We want 55% CO reduction achieved by 2030. There is 49% in the coalition agreement, but with the cabinet we are putting 55% at 55%. That needs to be filled in. For this it is important to organise a good support base here, so it has to be robust and fair. That is why I am very pleased with the progressive insight that the Minister shows when it comes to calculating the climate agreement. He now states: I also want to make it clear what the costs are, with the distinction between society and government, but also between businesses and citizens. That's exactly what I've been calling for before, even before Christmas. He didn't want to do that then, but he did now. That is a very important gain, also in order to be able to judge later: can we also carry that outcome politically and include everyone in the Netherlands in it? I really appreciate that. I would like to comment on the energy agreement 1.0, the implementation agenda. Much remains to be done, because we are three points behind. I note that the new agreements that have been made are probably based on an over-optimistic assessment of what the measures are going to do, more on the gross figures than on the net numbers, while the Minister rightly points out in the negotiations: you have to look at the net numbers, because you should not count richly. Does he want to apply that to the energy agreement 1.0? The letter sets out four principles in the negotiations. Three are substantive, and I think they are all quite right. The fourth is purely financial. It is said that there can be no more cents. I find this problematic, because the PBL has shown that more than half of the measures are still missing. Now saying that there should not be another penny, really puts a block to solutions in the negotiations. Is that how I'm supposed to see it? Or does this mean that you want to focus on standards and pricing policies? It is therefore important that there is an integrated approach and that the PBL provides good figures. I am concerned about the lack of transparency about the calculation methods used to determine the impact of a measure in terms of reduction, but also to whom that effect is granted, to which stakeholders. Stakeholders need to be clear about that. They need to understand which calculation methods are used. Is that what the Minister wants to promote? I also have a question about the role of the ACM. We spoke about this yesterday. If the ACM is involved too late and can only say in agreements or ideas for agreements "that can't be done with the competition rules, go back to the beginning" it is an undermining of the agreement. I hope the Minister will ensure timely involvement of the ACM. The same applies to the financial sector. It is not just about funding solutions, but also about their involvement where they can steer their investment portfolio towards more sustainability. That's what they want. Put that together and link it to the energy agreement. There too, I appeal to the Minister to do so. I would also like to see a good balance between which parties are at the table. The Minister has already indicated: not only the trade associations, but also individual parties. Then there must also be a balance between those who still have to go through the transition and those who are ahead of them and who can help them. Is that balance assured? Furthermore, I have already tabled a motion with Mr Kröger, my colleague in my group, to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, calling for one of the tables, the mobility table, to look at what it does with air traffic and whether you can contribute to CO reduction for air traffic at the mobility table. I hope that the Minister will be able to give a positive opinion on the motion, because the Minister of I and W did not dare to do so and referred us to Minister Wiebes. I would like to make a comment on agriculture. I really do not think that the role of agriculture is sufficient. I welcome the recalculation, including by the PBL. This may mean that some changes are being made in the terms of reference and that there may be a greater target for agriculture, but there is an elephant in the room on that dossier, namely the size of the livestock. Is there a taboo in advance, or can that really be discussed at that table? Because it's actually crucial, you really want to take steps on CO reduction. Then there is often a question of "really" that is technical, sorry for that, negative displacement effects that can arise because you do good things here, but one does things elsewhere in the wrong way, but is therefore cheaper. I hope that transparency will also be given there as to what relocation effects are being taken into account and that the Minister himself's commitment to forming a leading group will also be considered. If it succeeds in reaching agreements with neighbouring countries, these relocation effects will be much less. That actually means you have to work with two scenarios. I also hope that this will be done at the negotiating table. Finally, a final question about page 3 of the letter. The indicative table refers to "including the effects of circular economy," but this is not further addressed in the government agreement. What exactly does the Minister mean by that? Is the contribution from the circular economy to reducing emissions already known? That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are taking stock of the energy agreements up to 2020 and discussing the approach to the new climate and energy agreement. For D66, the goal is clear: to turn the ambitions of the greenest government agreement ever into results by reducing our CO emissions by at least 49% by 2030 and also to fully target 55% less CO. Mr. Chairman. I'll start by drawing up the balance sheet. D66 gets mixed feelings in the National Energy Exploratory. Yes, we are on course for more renewable energy in 2023 and energy savings are expected to be faster in the coming years, but the Netherlands is still dangling at the bottom of the international lists. So we still have a long way to go. The targets for 2020 are at risk. Wind on land is slow, energy saving is lagging behind, and it is only a question of whether we can follow the Urgenda Fund well enough. The Committee's choice of words is significant: the timetable is critical, a maximum effort is required, the implementation path is vulnerable and all uncertainties need to be removed. In short, a lot of work to be done. How does the Minister ensure that we meet the 2020 target? The Energy Exploratory also speaks of a considerable windfall. The target for 2030 is not 56 megatons of CO reduction but 41. That's nice, but 41 megatons is also a huge task. We are, of course, going to achieve this in part with the new climate agreement, but the hunt for CO tonnes also requires short-term success. Fortunately, there is a huge opportunity for grabs, namely: closing the Hemweg Centrale in Amsterdam, accounting for about 4.5 megatons per year, 10% of the target. Also owner Nuon says he wants to close quickly. I therefore call once again on Nuon and the Minister: turn around and close the Hemweg Centrale by 2020. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the commitments towards 2030. D66 welcomes the pace for the new climate and energy agreement and the great enthusiasm of all kinds of organisations to participate. However, I do have a number of comments and questions about the way the cabinet is handled. These are partly in line with Mr Van der Lee's contribution. Firstly, the balance between the frameworks of the agreement. It must be ambitious and cost-effective. The impact of road leakage must be avoided, but competitiveness must also be monitored. And-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and. It'll end up cramping somewhere, hurting somewhere. My question to the Minister is how we deal with it. Secondly, 55%. According to the Cabinet's letter, the climate tables only need to show what additional measures are possible to move towards 55%. D66 really thinks that's too weak. We want concrete agreements of 49% and 55% less CO per table, so that we can get these agreements going quickly as soon as we reach agreement at European level. Can the Minister undertake to do this? Speaking of European ambitions, is it not time for a large-scale diplomatic offensive to form that leading group and to really find sufficient support for that 55% in Europe, as we already have to agree on this in 2019? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the public support, but I see two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u5	Well, one of Mr. Van der Lee's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u6	I do hope that Mr Jetten will be able to give the right answer at once. Does he think that I would be wise if two scenarios were to be taken into account: a scenario in which there really is a leading group, and a scenario in which it is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u7	I think it would be wise to agree at these tables on both scenarios: 49% and 55%. The letter also states neatly that all agreements must be able to be calculated, so that we can really see if we are going to achieve our objectives. So I think it would be wise to pass on both scenarios. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the public support, because this whole energy transition is not so much a technological or administrative task as it is, of course, a social one. All houses off the gas, electric transport, circular production and buying, climate-adaptive construction; they are revolutions. They call for a different mentality in people's homes, a different view of taking, but also for a fair sharing of costs and monitoring the affordability of energy and heat. That requires good text and explanation; we need to give people the chance to participate. That is why I have a number of questions. How can interested Dutch people think about solutions to the climate agreement? At the tables are mainly people from large companies and NGOs. I am thinking, for example, of an online idea box in which everyone can participate. And does the Minister come up with an interactive campaign to inform the Netherlands about the purpose and actions of the climate agreement? Would it not be good to appoint two national ambassadors in such a large campaign, for example two BNs, who could be the face of that broad campaign to inform and enthuse old and young about our climate agreement and the energy transition? My third tightening up is on education and the labour market. We need tens of thousands of smart heads and professionals to carry out the energy transition and the labour market is already tight. Training is not always well suited to the needs of business. I do not think this task is very clearly expressed in the cabinet letter. The Minister of SZW will shortly present an action plan against labour shortages. Is this Minister prepared to make the agreement with his colleagues, including the energy transition and the climate agreement? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet letter is also brief on the subject of financial instruments. What are the intended results of this task force? D66 also lacks the climate impact that financial institutions can have. The way banks and pension funds use their money is crucial in limiting global warming. What agreements will the Minister make in the context of the agreement with the financial sector in order to reduce fossil and stimulate green investment? Then I have some specific questions about the different tables. In terms of mobility, I really miss the aviation and maritime sectors. There are no intended results for aviation and, as far as I know, the maritime and aviation sectors are not at the table either. How is that possible? In addition, it should be noted that the introduction of the maut and pilots for payment for use is not mentioned. D66 therefore sees little urgency with the Minister of I and W. How does the Minister of Climate view this? The letter also talks about 30 000 to 50 000 existing houses off the gas, but with that the letter is less ambitious than the government agreement, in which we still talk about 30,000 to 50,000 homes a year. Can the Minister explain this? Finally, something about the process. I believe that the Chamber should be better involved in this climate agreement than in the energy agreement 1.0. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to inform the Chamber in the interim of progress, for example with a letter of progress for the summer recess, so that we as a Chamber can still discuss it. At the committee's procedural meeting, we already agreed that Mrs Mulder and I will make a proposal to ensure that the Chamber can talk to the presidents of the various climate tables, so that we can also monitor the progress of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u8	Is Mr. Jetten ready? I have a question, but I'd like to ask it when he finishes his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u9	I'm out of time. I am saving a few points for the second term, so Mr Wassenberg can ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u10	Perhaps he could even mention one of those points in reply to my question. For Mr Van der Lee has already mentioned the contribution of livestock farming to climate change. I haven't heard D66 about that. In the past, D66 also advocated a reduction in the number of animals. In the Netherlands, we have between 500 million and 600 million farm animals: chickens, pigs and cows. Does D66 agree with me that the number of animals should be significantly reduced if we are to make a real contribution to combating climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u11	I did not mention the three tables of agriculture, industry and energy because of the time, but for agriculture I would like to join Mr Van der Lee's questions. I am pleased that we have written down a hard target for the agricultural sector in the coalition agreement, namely 3.5 megatons of CO. That is important, but I would also like to give the agricultural sector the opportunity to come up with proposals on how it is going to implement them. Mr Wassenberg also knows that in the coalition agreement we are talking about, among other things, a warm recovery of livestock. And I think that is also the challenge: how do we ensure that livestock farming has a less significant impact on climate and public health, but also that our farmers in the Netherlands, all of whom are doing their stinking best to earn a good living and make a good contribution to the world, have a future perspective for green circular farming in the Netherlands. With this agreement, I think we have finally got the right hook to have a good conversation with the agricultural sector about it and to make agreements on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u12	They do their stinking best, but with the emphasis on "stinking," the smell, and not "their best." 'Cause it stinks like hell. A lot of measures have been tried over the past few decades, air scrubbers and you name it. But they're all not helping. The only thing that really helps is a reduction in the number of animals. I haven't heard from Mr Jetten about that. He's talking about reducing tons of CO, but we're also talking about methane. The number of animals should be reduced. And I'd like to know what kind of D66 would be acceptable. A half ring?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u13	I'm not going to make any statements about the number of animals here. We have a hard task for the agricultural sector in the number of megatons. I believe that the agricultural sector can only fill it in if we are going to make the transition to circular agriculture in the Netherlands, using the world to produce our food in a good way. My colleague De Groot is an agricultural spokesman. He goes through the country every week and comes back every week with examples of farmers who also want to make that change. Then let this climate agreement be the reason for doing so on a large scale for our entire agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u14	I have heard Mr Jetten say that he wants the Chamber to be better involved in the conclusion of the new energy and climate agreement. That is strange, because recently a PVV motion was put to the vote here in the Chamber calling for the talks to be conducted in the open, so that we at least know as a Chamber what is going on. Then how is it that D66 votes against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u15	A number of comments on this. First of all, I think we should start now. We have quite clear frameworks at the beginning of this climate and energy agreement. A number of things, for example, are not negotiable. The CO price, a ban on coal: these are agreements under the coal agreement. We all have to go along with that. So we are not going to negotiate this in the framework of the climate and energy agreement. The Chamber has therefore already set better frameworks in the front. I think we should give the Minister a number of assignments today on how we are going to work over the next few months. Then you should also give those tables the chance to taste each other's kidneys and come up with good proposals, and then you should also give companies the chance to step over their own shadow once in a while. As a Chamber, we need to check a number of times in the interim to see if things are still moving in the right direction, so that we are convinced that we are actually going to make it to 55%. If that is not the case, we can change it as a room. And that is different from the previous energy agreement. Because then we could only draw at the end at the cross, and we're not gonna do that this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there was a hearing on climate adaptation. My colleague Van Raan was present on behalf of the Party for Animals. At that hearing, it became clear that climate change is going to be much faster than we think so far and that any delay of measures will only entail more costs in the long term. We can spend our euros better to prevent climate change than sticking patches afterwards. But unfortunately, the Netherlands still scores very badly in the areas of renewable energy and energy saving. We belong to the fences of Europe, we are the ugly duckling from the nest. Only Luxembourg is doing worse. We are not going to achieve the target set, a 14% share of renewable energy by 2020. Moreover, the term'sustainable energy' is not entirely correct. Not all generated energy is truly sustainable. There are also dubious energy released by, for example, burning Canadian wood chips in coal plants. Another example is manure fermentation, with which the Netherlands tries to wash the livestock industry green. Energy from manure would be sustainable, but for convenience it is forgotten that the animals are fed soy from South America. There the rainforest is cut down to make way for soy plantations. In the Netherlands, every kilowatt hour of renewable energy is greeted with cheers, even though rainforests are cut for it. As long as it happens far away. Before the Minister looks forward to a velvet beating, I'd like to compliment him. He has shown courage and decisiveness in the field of energy and climate. I am thinking in particular of his decision to break with the long-standing habit of putting gas extraction's finances above the safety of the Groningen people. The Minister frowns and mortars on existing structures to change something for the better. That's a good thing. I'd like to compliment him on that. The lights are green. The Minister now has the opportunity to make the necessary catch-up. Five political and business leaders will work with five sectoral tables for the Minister. This is where 59% CO reduction is to be achieved. I therefore hope that the Minister has taken the necessary lessons from the first energy agreement of 2013. The Achilles heel of that energy agreement was that stakeholders were allowed to provide too much input. It doesn't make sense to ask a rabbit how he wants to be prepared for Christmas. It makes no sense to ask fossil energy companies to voluntarily limit their own interests. Then you do get freaks like co-incineration of Canadian wood and call that "sustainable." The interests of the fossil industry must not play a significant role. It's about much bigger interests. It is about the interests of the climate and of the earth, it is about the interests of healthy ecosystems and a high level of biodiversity. This is also about the importance of ourselves and our children. I challenge the Minister to show leadership here and ensure that the public interest becomes the starting point of the upcoming energy and climate policy rather than an exchange of interests. I read a piece by Roland Kupers this week in The Financial Daily. He's an energy transition consultant. He wrote that the setting of goals by consensus does not work. Targets are always not ambitious enough. This is because players want to secure their own interest and their own position. It's a recurring pattern: low-level targets for too long-term. The solution: we must recognise and recognise from the outset that this ambition is only a step in the right direction and that it needs to be updated and enhanced periodically. Climate targets should be adjusted and strengthened periodically. What's the Minister's position on that? In any case, we must avoid endless delays in implementing ambitious measures, as in the current energy agreement. Additional measures have recently been announced in order to meet the objectives, for example in the area of energy saving. The Committee thinks it is possible to obtain a profit by introducing an obligation to provide information to the Environmental Management Act. Companies have a duty under that law to take any energy-saving measure that they can earn back within five years. That's just not happening yet. There is now a reporting obligation. The chairman of the committee is talking about a breakthrough. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about an obligation which has existed since 1993 and which companies have been able to overcome all this time. Is that a breakthrough? If the coal power stations are to be shut down more quickly, that is a breakthrough. Or if one decides to tackle the huge emissions of CO and methane from the livestock industry: that is a breakthrough. But an obligation that has been in existence for 25 years to finally maintain and call it a "breakthrough"? I don't think so! The climate agreement is doomed to fail in advance if there are not enough green parties at the table. Are these parties even invited? We do not want a technocratic approach but an integrated climate approach. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I mentioned the Netherlands at the beginning of my speech the ugly duckling from the nest when it comes to renewable energy. The Minister knows his classics. He knows how it ended with the ugly duckling: it became a graceful swan. I hope that this metamorphosis also applies to Dutch energy policy. I would like to give it to the Minister that, under his inspiring leadership, the Dutch climate policy is going to become an example within Europe. But that can only be done if we focus more broadly than is the case now. No cow-trading or exchange of principles, but firm ambitions that we regularly push up. No sacred houses and no blind spots. We must realise that climate policy is much more than energy policy. For example, there is also a reduction in livestock. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I was thinking about rabbits and Christmas. I thought, "It's always about a turkey at Christmas, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u19	That's in America.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u20	Oh, in America. Okay. I see Mrs Mulder coming this way, but Mrs Dik-Faber is next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u21	Oh, I thought I could already!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u22	I'm distracted. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was in Polsbroekerdam last Monday. That's a village in the middle of the Green Heart. I was there at the community center, and I got a presentation from the Stichting Duurzaam Lopikerwaard. The area is capable of generating 6% of renewable energy, but that includes the three windmills that are there. So there's still a long way to go. But they also want to put their shoulders on it, for example by taking care of people if they want to make their home more sustainable and by providing business premises with solar panels. Mr. Chairman. Everywhere in the country, it's full of energy. That's good to see. The Christian Union considers it important that we handle the creation carefully so that we can pass the earth on to our children and grandchildren. There is a bright green coalition agreement with ambitious goals. By 2030, CO emissions will have to be reduced by at least 49%, with a view to 55%, and there will be a climate law. However, in order to achieve these ambitious goals, we need to work hard, and we also need to achieve the intermediate targets in the short term. That's quite a job. Because we've come a long way, according to the Energy Exploratory of 2017. The share of renewable energy in 2016 was only 6%. We are in a fifteenth place in the EU. To be among the European leaders, we need to start a catching-up race, with this minister in the lead. Mr. Chairman. We saw positive developments in the past year. For example, the share of wind energy in the Netherlands increased considerably compared to other countries. However, it is clear that we need to step up, because by 2020 we will not be able to save the targets. The share of renewable energy is 13% instead of 14%. The additional energy savings will reach three quarters of the target by 2020. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and the parties concerned for sending out the implementation agenda. The obligation to save energy in the Environmental Management Act is tightened by reversing the burden of proof. It is good that this step is taken. How is the Minister going to ensure that companies are well informed within two years and that they are actually maintained? I have also seen that it is difficult to reach the 6,000 MW wind on land, especially due to delays in the realisation. The Minister reports that the targets will be achieved, but in what time should all the bumps be resolved in order to have sufficient windmills by 2020? I'm afraid that's gonna take some time too. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the great willingness of companies, organisations and governments to make a success of the new climate and energy agreement, as well as the people who are going to work through the industry tables in the climate council. Because the challenges are great. How do we achieve the goals as effectively as possible? How do we make use of innovative techniques that really contribute to the fossil-free economy? How do we ensure that we share the pleasures and burdens fairly between companies and households, between homeowners and tenants, and between people with and without savings? Mr. Chairman. The pace is ambitious, and that's good. By the end of the year, the programmes must be in place for the agreement. I do have some questions for the Minister. Portrait and ownership are essential for the transition to succeed. Citizens and businesses must feel co-responsible, but they must also have an action perspective. Where can citizens, businesses and civil society organisations get their good ideas? How can we excite citizens and how is communication to citizens regulated? Many citizens want to, but do not know where to get information. How can they participate? Have the municipalities been properly addressed? Is their participation in the climate council sufficient? After all, municipalities have a key position for citizens and businesses making plans for the sustainability of neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked by others about mobility, in particular aviation and shipping. I can totally go along with that. Also on the issue of the involvement of the Chamber: let us not make the same mistake as in the previous energy agreement. The number of solar panels in the Netherlands is growing, and that is good news. Yet I also see a lot of unused roofs and many regulations and administrative bumps. For schools, churches and farms, it should be much more attractive to place solar panels on the roof. Recently, there was a discussion on the rates of the SDE+. This showed that many initiatives fall between shore and ship. Many companies and schools are too large for the private benefits of salading, but too small for the SDE+, which is much more intended for large solar parks. A solution that has already been discussed a great deal, including by my group, is a separate arrangement in the SDE+. Another possible solution is to add small-scale solar projects to the new return grant, for example the 100 kilowatt peak. The advantage of the return subsidy is that initiatives are no longer excluded as at present with the SDE+, and that tariffs are cost-effective. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this further? Mr. Chairman. Another problem for schools, for example, is that there are still thresholds for care structures. This is still due to the strict interpretation of own risk and account. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the solar industry? The postcode rose scheme is just beginning to work well for energy cooperatives. When does the Minister send the evaluation to the Chamber? I understand that a number of concrete improvements are still possible in the short term. In the long term, the regime will be adjusted, the government agreement will be announced. Does the Minister also take ODE Decentral to think this through, so that the Stade initiatives are not frustrated? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Back to the Lopikerwaard. Their message is: make sure that there is an attractive arrangement for solar PV on public buildings and farms, so that the Green Heart is not filled with solar meadows, while a lot of roof potential remains unused. That's what's gonna happen here. This week I asked the Minister written questions about the run on sunbathing meadows. That's positive on the one hand, because there's gonna be a lot more solar energy. But there are also disadvantages. Foreign investors buy up agricultural land while young farmers want to expand their farms or make them land-related. Solar energy is going to compete with food production and that is not the intention. The industry association Holland Solar has a solar ladder, first looking at unused roofs or sites of Defence or Rijkswaterstaat. The Minister has announced a pilot in areas of government. Is the Minister prepared to pay attention in the climate agreement to as much relief as possible from agricultural land?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you. Mrs Agnes Mulder is now finally on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u25	Mr President, thank you. Like Mrs Dik-Faber, I am always on a lot of work visits and then you hear a lot. The Netherlands has signed the Paris Climate Treaty and the current energy agreement contributes to this. But more is needed, and that is why we will have a climate and energy agreement. In the National Energy Exploratory which I am going to shorten to NEV in the rest of my speech, we see an acceleration in energy saving and an increase in the share of renewable energy. That's good news. At the same time, additional measures are needed to achieve the objectives. Even better than generating renewable energy, it is natural not to use energy at all or less. With energy savings, and with this less use of gas is needed, Groningen has been helped. That is why the CDA wants us to make full use of energy savings, now and after 2020. This is particularly true in the services sector, i.e. the offices where energy saving is lagging behind. We see that the Minister is committed to an active information obligation for companies to achieve that goal. The CDA thinks that's a good step. But how is the Minister going to shape and content this without this becoming a paper tiger? Mr. Chairman. We are not yet here in the area of renewable energy either. As the Minister knows by now, support for the CDA is crucial. We see that the targets are not achieved by wind on land. We know that wind energy on land is difficult to achieve without support and we know that pushing through, as in Drenthe, is counterproductive. This has to be different. Residents should be better involved and should be able to benefit from it. They bear the burden, but are not sufficiently compensated for it. Is the Minister prepared to impose the amount per megawattage specified in the NWEA Code of Conduct as a minimum contribution for residents and surroundings? We also see discussion with the surroundings in large solar parks on the ground. The CDA prefers not solar panels on fertile farmland, but on rooftops. How does the Minister look at this development and how can this consideration be given a place in national policy? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the CDA wants public support to be explicitly included as one of the frameworks in the climate agreement and that the plans are designed to ensure social acceptance. We want citizens and smaller businesses to be more specifically involved in the task. For many people, it is not clear how they can participate in the climate agreement. How does the Minister view this? The CDA itself sees opportunities for an internet consultation, but it is also open to other ideas. I heard Mr Jetten say a few things about this. Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and I have questions from the municipalities about how they can help the inhabitants and the smaller business community. They ask whether they can also get some kind of hand-out from the Empire which shows how they can get to work on the heat plans. Of course, they are also concerned about affordability. How are we gonna keep an eye on that? Our question is: what exactly is the role of the municipality in this? What's the Minister gonna do? Does the Minister arrange this before the climate agreement, or is it part of the climate agreement? We would like to have more clarity about this in this debate. Mr. Chairman. The CDA welcomes the Energy Cooperative Development Facility. These energy cooperatives contribute to the challenge of renewable energy and support. Mr Dik-Faber said a few things about this. We have asked questions on this point before, during the budget debate. We will receive another letter from the Minister explaining how he will further stimulate this and comment on the netting arrangement. So we're just waiting for that to happen right now. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's commitment to the built environment states that agreements are made to make 30 000 to 50 000 homes natural gas-free or gas-free-ready until the end of the cabinet period, but the government agreement states that this must be achieved annually. We really want a more detailed explanation from the Minister on this point, just like Mr Jetten. Mr. Chairman. How will the Minister anchor the contribution from the circular economy in the agreement? I have the same question about the climate adaptation. Mr Wassenberg has already mentioned it. Yesterday we had a round table in this house. By building smart adaptive, we may be able to reduce the cost of mitigation. Moreover, in the letter or in the climate agreement, we do not see any return to the aviation effort, whereas it is precisely there that great steps can be taken. What's the Minister's commitment to that? Can we also use the EUR 300 million from the coalition agreement on these issues? Mr. Chairman. Another important point for the CDA is the government's own procurement policy. With this we can have direct influence on achieving the goals. How is the Minister going to shape that with the colleagues? Has the Minister already been able to look with the Secretary of State at the possibilities for accelerating the sustainability of their own state real estate, as promised during the budget debate? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the set-up of the tables and task groups. Let me be clear about that right now. The CDA would like to ask the Minister to make an intermediate step before the summer. This gives us the opportunity to get a more concrete picture of, for example, the climate council: which parties sit at the different tables; what exactly is the scope of the funding task force; what proposals and, if so, when; what about the labour market task force and how does this fit in with existing initiatives? In short, as a Member of Parliament, I want to be more involved in this enormous transformation of society. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Our group would have liked Groningen to have been more prominent in the letter. We see that now only come back to the built environment. Hydrogen offers opportunities, including by connecting to developments in Germany. Does the Minister see that, too? Does he really want to look at that? What is the Minister doing with initiatives up to the summer, which may need a go? Several parties have reported to us. Does the minister have a pilot pot for that? Think of the school roof revolution we mentioned, NERO, but also AkzoNobel. Can the Minister give us the state of play? Mr. Chairman. In racing speed, I tried to get everything through. I see I also have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u26	Of course, I would like to help Mrs Mulder to extend her speaking time slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you for doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u28	Very thoughtful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u29	She's treated a lot. I also agree with a great many points, especially those on the involvement of the Chamber. But I have missed one topic, and that is agriculture. There is a very big task there. The task is really on the skinny side. My question is specific: does the CDA think that there can and perhaps should be a reduction in livestock farming at the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u30	This has already been mentioned in the coalition agreement. We are now getting the impression that it has not been dealt with there. We're talking 3.5 megatons per 2030. Mr Jetten has already indicated it. That's a hell of a job already. Suppose there are new plans coming from the sector to further contribute to that, then of course we as CDA are open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u31	Okay. Thank you. Mr Van der Lee has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u32	It may be a bit of a question about the well-known road, but... It is a very limited task and it is filled in in a more warm-cleaning way. It's gonna take bigger steps. I do not think we can escape from discussing this issue. It would be very good for the parties at the table if the CDA were to speak today: talk about this, do not put a taboo on that subject in advance and show what measures can be taken to achieve what effects. Does she want to endorse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u33	I am indeed in favour of a warm restructuring of the sector. So that is already reflected in the coalition agreement. I'm not in favour of a hard cleanup. I'm not in favour of just turning someone's neck around like crazy. The CDA doesn't want that. We hope for good plans from the sector. If they see any further possibilities, I want to look at them with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman. It speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I walked in the district of Opwierde-Zuid in Appingedam. If it becomes painfully clear somewhere that we have to stop using fossil fuels, it is there in the quake area. All houses are unsafe and the reinforcements are downright dramatic. The first houses that have been delivered have been handled very badly. The residents are sick of it. Almost 80% signed a petition stating that the reinforcement as it is now carried out by the EZ officials or the National Coordinator Groningen and the NAM should stop. The residents want future and control. They want to take matters into their own hands. The good thing is, they don't just wait and see what they're doing. For example, out of the desire to stop gas extraction, an energy cooperative has been established, so Appingedam is no longer dependent on gas winners Shell and Exxon. We see that happen in many more places. Energy must be safe, sustainable, affordable and everyone's. That cooperative in Appingedam is called Eendracht. I really like that name. Perhaps that should be the name of this whole revolution: unity. Not from a few, but from all of us. Control, security and affordability first. A fair distribution of lusts and burdens. Consensus makes power. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet speaks fine words. It calls itself "the greenest cabinet ever." It's time for action now. Can this cabinet break the sad line? Can it break the sad lines of nearly three decades of renewable energy targets that are not achieved by a long shot? Ambition and reality seem to have never been so far apart. The report on sustainable development goals published yesterday by the CBS shows that our environmental, climate, energy and inequality goals are failing. The Netherlands is dangling at the bottom of the list with its share of renewable energy. The most striking decline is the sinking of the Netherlands from the EU's leading group in terms of greenhouse gas intensity. How is it that the objectives remain so out of sight? Because, after all fine words, agreements, agreements and consultations with the sector, there is not much going on, because there has not been a cabinet so far that has actually dared to curb emissions from industry. Is the use of climate policy going to break that? What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to move the companies most dependent on fossil fuel and most CO2 emissions to the transition to clean energy? There will be many agreements, as we have read in the letter, but will the Minister also promise that they will be enforceable, so with consequences when the targets are not met? Mr. Chairman. Then inequality. The SP is concerned and fears that the green revolution is now going to create more inequality. The CBS concludes for a reason that the Netherlands is doing badly in the areas of environment, climate, energy and equality. The account is now one-sided with households. With the new agreement, make sure that the bill comes from the most polluting companies, let it finally pay for emissions and fossil energy consumption. That will ensure the acceleration required. If not, this cabinet will only increase inequality, as shown by new research by CE Delft. Poor families will lose 20% of their income to the energy bill in a few years' time; 20%! Households pay four and a half times as much in storage of renewable energy in 2021 as they do now. Companies pay little on average for their emissions, the heavy industry the least. Rutte III won't do anything about this for a while. According to the CE Delft report, the gap between households and businesses is only going to widen. When will this inequality be addressed? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of employment. We believe that the use of safe and sustainable energy can deliver a great deal, but where are the jobs promised in the Energy Agreement? They did not come, according to the cabinet, because the share of renewable energy is lagging behind. That's all the more reason to bet on this. There is also a role for politics to play in this process, so that this transition can be speeded up where it doesn't go on its own. Where are the large-scale renovation and sustainability projects of social housing and state buildings, where are the concrete plans to get away from gas, where are the support measures to provide housing insulation, heat pumps, installation of solar panels and installation of gas-free kitchens in private households? This creates enormous employment in the construction and installation sector. There is a cautious approach in the last letter, but how is this developed by the labour market and training task force and the table built environment? Mr. Chairman. Of course, enough clean energy will have to be available. How is the Minister going to increase the share available? In 2013, approximately two thirds of electricity generation in the Netherlands is expected to come from renewable energy sources such as sun and wind. Is this electricity produced in the Netherlands? Large wind energy projects, such as in the Veenkoloniën in Groningen and Drenthe, are now going very wrong. Residents have too little control and too little desire, even though they have the burden. The supporting surface is essential. For that, we need to be honest. Is the new energy agreement also statutory that residents always benefit from and have real control over projects in their backyard? Because we are still hearing too little about ways of significantly increasing the share of renewable energy. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. It is time for unity: sustainable, safe and affordable energy from and for everyone. Residents are now experiencing a lot of fossil energy generation. They are now being burdened with clean energy generation through a high energy bill and a lot of projects that they do not like, but sometimes they are burdened with. It is time for a green and social revolution, a fair revolution, in which residents have control and power. At the same time, we must ensure that companies no longer have the power to stay behind in achieving sustainable goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Kops has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u37	I hear Mrs Beckerman talking about support. Of course, support is mainly related to affordability. Mrs Beckerman also mentioned the affordability of the energy bill. That bill's going up like hell. But, yes, if the SP is in favour of a lower energy bill, it will, of course, make a fool of the citizens. Sustainability and a lower energy bill of course do not go together at all. That account is only increasing because we have sustainability policy, climate policy and an energy transition. And then she says: we must ensure that the bill does not only reach the citizens, but also the businesses. That is, of course, an illusion, because companies are simply going to pass the costs on to their products and services. The Minister simply acknowledges this in his own letter. So again, how is Mrs Beckerman going to ensure that the energy bill actually goes down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u38	I believe that we have put forward a number of good proposals for this. Some of them were also supported by your party. We really believe that energy taxes and environmental taxes should be fair. You also know that households are now paying a rate 100 times as high as the rate paid by the major polluters. 100 times as high! We believe that this should be fair. We also believe that local energy cooperatives can really ensure that people themselves can generate energy in an affordable way. In particular, I think that control is very important. We need to get rid of the big polluters. I see them in my own backyard. I call Shell and Exxon, which you have no power over, which cause a great disaster. I believe that we need both more control and we need to reduce costs. I think we agree on that. Unfortunately, we do not yet agree that the goal is really necessary. I would very much like to invite you to visit Groningen and see that it is really very important that we switch from fossil to renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party fully supports the Paris objectives. We appreciate the way in which the Minister is shaping the energy and climate agreement. That's a hell of a job. We also believe that it is necessary to achieve the Paris objectives, not only for the present generation but also for the generations after us. But that faith, Mr President, is not a blind faith. The PvdA has a keen eye for the side effects. We're all gonna have to pay a huge bill. That's not what the PvdA's running away from. But the Labour Party is concerned about whether that bill is being distributed fairly. This is simply crucial for the success of the operation. Without a fair distribution of lusts and burdens, the energy transition is doomed to failure. More morally, you should start distributing that bill fairly, but also in order to gain sufficient acceptance and acceptance in society, a fair distribution of lusts and burdens is really necessary. I refer to the costs, at a number of cost items that have recently become known. I call it transforming the chemical industry. Yesterday, in The Financial Daily, it said that this cost EUR 64 billion. The CO storage, 18 megatons of the same size over the cuff counted €50 per ton of young people will soon reach one billion per year. The sustainable housing stock, 8 million buildings times €20,000, is up to 160 billion euros. My question is: who's gonna pay for that, who's gonna prefinance it, and how are we gonna distribute it fairly? We must not close our eyes to the fact that the energy transition is accompanied by huge transfers of income and capital. There are plenty of people who can pay 20 grand to make a house more sustainable out or pocket, but a lot of people can't. And if the municipality knocks on your door from 2021 and says she's gonna take your house off the gas, that's a very noble goal. But what you do get is that people who just invested in a new central heating boiler have to write that thing off early and buy an alternative heating system. If we are not going to ensure that in the front and not to distribute those lusts and burdens properly, then it is not going to work out with acceptance and acceptance in society. In general, you can say that the energy transition will ultimately bring social prosperity. That reasoning can also be put up in relation to globalisation. Globalisation can generally be said to lead to prosperity gains worldwide, but in globalisation we see globalisation winners and globalisation losers. The PvdA is afraid of transition winners and transition losers. We're seeing it right now. A farmer who puts a few windmills on his land in the Drentse Monden easily cashs a tonne a year, just for the ground fees. And the neighbors checked. They see the value of their home falling. They see that their habitat is affected. If we do not see that, then the energy transition is doomed to failure. I'd like to give the Minister a shot. We have had debates on this before. The Minister says: yes, but every August we look at the purchasing power plates. But we don't see these kinds of effects for the wind farmers and the neighbors in the purchasing power picture. So I'd like to take a shot in the bow here. If the national energy agreement does not provide guarantees for fair burden-sharing, the PvdA will not be able to do so. We would very much like to achieve the Paris objectives, but a harsh peripheral condition is a fair distribution of the lusts and burdens. How does the Minister intend to ensure that? Is he prepared to develop a plan for this at the tables as well? Mr. Chairman. I think that the Minister and all of us should be aware that energy transition is not only a very large technological project, but that it is also a very large social project. I sometimes compare it to the program Space for the River. In terms of size and impact this is much less than the energy transition, but at Rijkswaterstaat the thought in the past was that if you had engineers with bulldozers raising the dikes, it would all work out well. There has also been enormous social resistance to this. We need to keep an eye on that. How is the Minister going to ensure that there will be acceptance and acceptance for this enormous task? Does he recognise that this is not only a major technological project but also a major social project? Does he agree with me that we should not target this object-oriented but human- and society-oriented? How do we get that energy transition right in people's hearts and minds? To the taste of the PvdA this is crucial for the success of the energy transition. If we don't see that, then it's doomed to fail. Finally, Mr President. My central question to the Minister is: how does he intend to ensure that not only acceptance at the tables will arise but also broad in society? How is he going to convince my group and society that the burden and appetites are being shared fairly? With regard to the budget, I have called for attention to be paid to working capacity. It's far from satisfactory to my taste. How is the Minister going to ensure that there is sufficient labour force to achieve the immense task at this point? Finally, Mr President. Mrs Mulder asked for attention to be given to a number of projects. NERO mentioned them, among other things. That is also cross-border. There are more of those hydrogen projects. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to look at this with more than a lazy eye and contribute to promoting both the hydrogen projects and the NERO story. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u42	I fully endorse Mr Moorlag's plea for a robust and just climate policy. I have also mentioned the example of Space for the River myself many times, because it advocated an integrated approach and because from the outset creating support and bringing people with us was paramount. I do have one question about the phrase "the PvdA won't be able to make it." Do I need to hear you now that everything has to be settled in the climate agreement? Or could it also be that the outcome of a climate agreement that looks at "as fair as possible" should also look at income policies, in order to compensate for certain effects? If it has to be done only within the agreement, it may be an insurmountable obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u43	That's not my argument. I believe that we, as a society, should look at this in a broad sense. We all have to split up that account. Not all parties are at the table of the Energy and Climate Agreement. What matters to me is that the Minister ensures that the burden-sharing process is conducted in a fair and just manner. Again, the energy transition is accompanied by huge transfers of income and capital. We must not close our eyes to this, and the Minister must not close his eyes to that either. We must do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr President. The National Energy Exploratory. You'd almost forget, but that's what this debate is called: National Energy Exploratory. That's this report I'm showing you right now. Much attention has been paid to the layout. It's nice and colorful and all looks beautiful. If you don't read it, you might be happy about it. For the NEV is a completely one-sided report, written on behalf of a minister who has only one goal in mind, and that is the energy transition. The one-sidedness of this report is a symbol of this minister and his policy: the energy transition must and will come at all costs. Speaking of costs, what is the cost of this energy transition? Hundreds of billions, that's for sure. Who's gonna pay for that? The citizens, too, are certain. But then again the question: exactly how much is this transition going to cost? If there's anything this minister is secretive about, it's those costs. Why? To keep the citizens ignorant and quiet. See the energy bill: it rises and rises. There are households that are literally caught in the cold. When the PVV asks the Minister about the total cost of the energy transition, he calls it an "insane question"! With dry eyes. A request for insight into the total costs he calls an "idiotic call"! Really, Mr President, he really said it: it's just shameful. No, Mr. Chairman, that a blank check is being written, that's crazy. In fact, it's insane and irresponsible. This room is just happy to be part of it. Last Tuesday, the Chamber voted by a large majority against a PVV motion. What did that motion call for? To provide insight into the cost of the energy transition. No more and no less than that. The Chamber votes against. The Chamber does not want that, and the Chamber says to the citizens: you must not know. Is that people's office? Meanwhile, we read in a recent letter from the Minister that measures must be passed on by the Planning Office for the Environment. A transfer will provide insight into the costs for the government and the costs for society, according to the letter. What is it now? What is this contradiction? Did the Minister lie when he said in an earlier debate in response to the PVV that it is impossible to picture all the costs? I'd like a response to that point. It's ridiculous to be so shady. The fact that this Chamber participates in that is perhaps even worse, because anyone who is shady has something to hide. It's folklore. The people must keep their mouths shut and pay. In fact, this is exactly in undemocratic line with the abolition of the referendum: one is not interested in the opinion of the people, but only in his wallet. Meanwhile, a new energy and climate agreement is being negotiated, secretly, yes. What's going on out there? We can't know that either. All sorts of politicians from different political parties are going to interfere in the conclusion of that agreement. After all, the jobs carousel must continue to run. Also PvdA activist Diederik Samsom has a finger in his mouth. Well, then you do. The outcome is already clear: the citizens are screwed. The citizens will have to pay. That's crystal clear. The citizens, and no one else. In one letter, the Minister writes: no, half the burden will fall on businesses and the direct burden on citizens will be lower! Yes, but the indirect burden doesn't seem to be, because in another letter the Minister writes very nicely that all costs, including indirect costs, are borne by society. That letter states: households see these costs in product prices, passed on by companies, in rent, in house prices, energy costs, etc. And look, Chairman, here comes the monkey from the sleeve. That means: wherever and in any way citizens spend their money, left or right, they will pay and no one else will. Then let's get back to the National Energy Explorer. That is what this debate is called. That report does not pay any attention to affordability, or rather to unaffordability. Average energy bills, average costs are presented in it as if any household that can easily pay, as if everyone were a millionaire. The opposite is true. Does the Minister share the view that that's weird? Or does that confirm precisely that the total costs and unaffordability cannot be known? I'd like a response. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that future editions of the National Energy Exploratory include affordability, explicitly, broken down into different composite households and different incomes? So a financial paragraph, at least, or rather an affordability paragraph. How does the Minister feel about that? In addition to the question of whether the whole energy transition and climate policy are good for something, the question of whether households can pay the rising energy bills should be a guiding factor. And, Mr President, the answer to both questions is 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u47	After Mr Kops' fervent plea, I welcome the fact that the PVV programme will now be passed on, so that the electorate can also get an impression of it. That's nice. But just a moment about the purpose of that national climate and energy agreement. We all know in this Chamber that Mr Knops belongs on behalf of his PVV group to the camp of climate deniers. So I get that he's not jumping into that climate and energy deal. But does Mr Kops agree with me that fossil fuels are running out and that we, as the Netherlands, should at any rate think about how after the fossil age we provide energy and heat for all those Dutch households that Mr Kops loves to stand up for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u48	I can be very brief about that. We have had a technical briefing in this Chamber and it was said that there is enough fossil oil and gas in the world. But, Mr President, I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Jetten's interruption, because he was rather quick about it. What you're doing, Mr. Jetten... You're talking about our election program. What you are doing is pushing citizens' accounts down the throat, climate policy, pushing the energy transition down the throat, you are doing that! And if we table a motion here to at least reflect those costs, what will you do? You're voting against. We want to keep control of the citizens. We have also tabled a motion to ensure that citizens have to choose whether or not they are connected to the gas. What does D66 do? They're voting against! We want a lower energy bill. What does D66 do? It's voting against it! What's this undemocratic stuff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr Kops and I find each other in keeping energy and heat affordable. I have just made comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u50	Not at all. We won't find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u51	We do not always support each other's motions, but we ask the same questions to the Minister. My interruption was about running out of fossil fuels. Mr Kops did not really want to answer that, because he knows that they are finite. Yes, they will be there in the coming years, but that technical briefing also said: they are finite and the stocks that are still there come from wrong regimes, come from regimes that the PVV also wants nothing to do with, like countries in the Middle East. So again my question: does Mr Kops agree with me that we should also use renewable energy in the Netherlands because the fossil age is simply finite?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr Jetten is repeating himself. He has already said in several debates that we would like to remain dependent on foreign regimes. What a load of crap! But yesterday we had a debate on Eneco here in this Chamber, Mr Jetten. That big company is in danger of being sold. Almost half of all Dutch households depend on this. It just threatens to be trampled abroad! We are against this. We want to keep that in our own hands, precisely in order not to become dependent on a large foreign company. But what does Mr Jetten do? He's fine with it all. And one more thing. Mr Jetten also mentioned the affordability of the energy bill, as if we were to find each other on that point. I would like to throw that far from me, because we do not find each other at all on that point. Because you're not in favour of a lower energy bill at all. You're for the energy transition. You are in favour of climate policy, and that is precisely what is causing this bill to go up hugely. That that bill goes up, you're guilty of it, Mr. Jetten!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u53	I still do not know where Mr Kops wants that oil and gas to be extracted, but it may come later. Suppose you live in Appingedam and that your house is unsafe because of the gas extraction, which, by the way, made many people very wealthy but not those people in Appingedam. You want that fossil gas extraction to stop because you want a future and your house is unsafe. You want to switch to sustainable and safe energy, and you want to do it yourself. You want to make a living out of that, too. Then what's so wrong with it? I'm asking, because that's the energy transition I'm seeing. Is that what you're for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mrs. Beckerman is trying a little emotionally and I certainly don't fall for that. I have already said in debates that there is no doubt that we need to get rid of the Groningen gas. Of course! But it's a very different discussion whether we should get rid of all fossil fuels. That's a completely different discussion. And of course, if people in Groningen or wherever want to provide their own energy or take their own initiatives, then they have to know it all by themselves. But make sure that control remains with the citizens. Indeed, but we say: if citizens want to choose to be connected to the gas, they do not want to be connected to the gas from Groningen, not that gas! If so, they must also be given that control. We have tabled a motion for that, and you will vote against it, Mrs Beckerman. Look, Chairman, and then Mrs. Beckerman talks about control. It only wants to give citizens control that leads to its own agenda, the sustainability and climate agenda. That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u55	Somewhere in all this anger, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u56	That's not anger. I was just reacting to what you brought in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u57	I wanted to say something positive about you and then this is a pity. Just give me a little space, because I want to compliment you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u58	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u59	Too bad. I was pleased that you said at least that you obviously chose a certain type of energy transition, namely that people can create their own energy cooperative. Actually, it's not that bad. You're for Eneco, a very sustainable energy company. That must remain in public hands and you are also in favour of people in Appingedam and wherever in the Netherlands creating their own energy cooperative and perhaps earning something from it. At least they can be safe. I think it is nice that you are obviously in favour of some kind of energy transition in the hands of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u60	You may respond to this, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u61	Yes, Mr. Chairman. What we don't do, unlike the SP, is push things down their throats, force people to take off the gas and charge people with a heat pump of €18,000. In Nijmegen, where I happen to live, homes are currently being removed from the gas. Costs, €60,000 per house! It's all happening, and that money has to come from somewhere. I have already said that it is the households who pay for it on the left or right. Then, as Mrs Beckerman said in her speech, the SP may choose to reduce costs for companies, but they simply pass it on to their products and services. Don't sell nonsense, that cost for a heat pump or whatever and that high energy bill comes from SP's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u62	I hear Mr Kops say that he thinks that fossil fuels are far from exhausted and that we can continue using fossil fuels for a long time to come. Emissions, emissions are very bad for our health. Do you not think it is important for your constituents, for your constituents, that we at least provide clean air?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u63	Yes, clean air is very good. That's fine, of course. That's an open door. No, I'm for bad air, for dirty air. That's weird, of course. I ask Mrs Sazias if she has been present in the debate on the progress of the energy transition. At that time, I stood here and argued for 15 minutes that the whole climate policy is being adopted by this Chamber as a fact. The climate changes through human action. Well, rounded up, there's 0.04% CO in the atmosphere, 3% of which is caused by human action. This means that the atmosphere consists of only 0.0012 per cent of CO generated by human action. Marcel Crok has already calculated that Rutte III's energy and climate policy will lead to a lower temperature increase of 0,00027 ̊C in 2030, if it comes along. That is completely negligible and not even measurable in a scientific way. And then this Chamber dares to assume as a fact that climate policy is good. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Kops is talking about temperature, but I'm talking about air emissions and clean air. The combustion of fossil fuels pollutes the air. That Mr. Kops is a denier of the effect of human action on the climate, I'm not going to argue about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u65	That's easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u66	I am convinced of the opposite, so we can talk about that for a very long time to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u67	Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u68	Now I would like to talk specifically about pollution. You don't want to push anyone down their throats, but you do push everyone's dirty air into their lungs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u69	No, I'm not. Can Mrs Sazias comment on the figures I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u70	No, Mrs. Sazias is supposed to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u71	That's the way it goes in the debate every time. When I come up with numbers, people talk about it. This is a sign of the whole climate policy. That discussion is supposedly a station for this Chamber. It is assumed that climate policy is good. It's going to cost hundreds of billions, and citizens are going to pay for it. And you step right over it, with the greatest ease.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mrs. Sazias, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u73	Mr. Kops is stepping over my observation. I'm talking about polluted air from burning fossil resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mr Kops does not believe in the impact of humans on climate change. I'm not gonna convince him of that either. I'm not having that discussion, because that's pretty useless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u75	It's easy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u76	I know PVV guys who make their money installing solar panels. These are also people who represent the PVV politically. You can put it in another way. You don't have to believe in climate change to put solar panels on your roof anyway. Is Mr Kops convinced that there is just money to be made with the new energy? People who have solar panels on their roofs are assured of partly free energy for the next 30, 40 and maybe 50 years. Isn't that an attractive image for the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u77	The PVV has always said about this: leave it to the market. That's right. Release civilians in whatever they want. If they want to buy solar panels, they want to fill their roof with those things, and they pay for them themselves, that's what it's all about: fine, go ahead. But don't go in there, like I said, hundreds of billions of dollars that everyone ultimately pays for. That's the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u78	That's part of the discussion. Of course, we're not going to spend hundreds of billions to build solar panels. What we need to do to combat climate change consists of a number of steps. Indeed, I think it is already a gain that the PVV says: with those solar panels you can make a big contribution. Maybe people can cook electric. At least that'll get you off part of the gas. If those first steps could be taken by the PVV, I would already consider that to be a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u79	Of course, that's striking. Mr Wassenberg is talking about profit. That is, of course, just an excuse that fits in with his own climate agenda. That's just it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I think you were done. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This transition is so cross-border that the government has to take the lead here. Fortunately, we see that this is gradually taking shape, but the question is whether we are going to get it all done. The government agreement has a greenhouse gas reduction target of at least 49%, but we would prefer to go to 55%. We should, because the Netherlands is at the bottom of the list as regards the share of renewable energy. A lot of water will have to flow through the Rhine before it finally arrives. The number of ministries attached to this policy makes it clear that the energy transition affects all the nerves of society. Everyone is now aware that something needs to be done, but there is still far too much waiting to be done, both in business and in private. Why is that? Well, that's because conversion just costs a lot of money. I can see why we can't calculate that one-on-one now, because transition is a learning path. We're gonna run into it, and then we're gonna know more. No one knows how many more. A number of parties have already mentioned affordability. What 50PLUS wants is above all a fair distribution of that affordability. We are afraid that is not the case. Energy taxation has increased considerably this year, but large companies are receiving substantial subsidies to make it more sustainable, which is detrimental to the public's support. And that support should ultimately be the starting point, because we have to do it together. With large consumers you can of course take big steps, but many small consumers are ultimately also a large consumer. So how does the Minister guarantee the affordability of the transition for everyone and for ordinary people? For example, it has always surprised 50PLUS that there are only subsidies for electric cars for business driving. Why not for individuals? 50PLUS takes the view that the polluter pays. Then why don't you get a reward if you live extra green? How far is the Minister in adjusting the retail netting scheme? Because if you do your best to generate energy and you stream it back, that's a good thing. A pet over your sphere stimulates more than a blow to your account. One of the major challenges is the sustainability of the existing housing stock. Especially the beautiful old homes are often far from sustainable and to rebuild them a property is needed. For many property owners this is simply not feasible. Does the Minister agree with us that there should be a financial helping hand there? What are these tailor-made financial instruments he is talking about in his letter of 23 February? And what does the Minister think about the benevolent people who want to shut down their gas often cost a lot of money just to shut it down? That doesn't stimulate it, does it? Shouldn't that at least be free? The intention is to make 30 000 to 50 000 dwellings free of natural gas or natural gas before the end of the cabinet period. Mrs Mulder from the CDA mentioned this as well. I think that should be done. Last year, 62,000 new homes were built, 62,000 in one year. If we now ensure that all new buildings are natural gas-free from now on, we will get somewhere! Would the Minister direct the meeting, together with municipalities, of Association Eigen Huis, energy suppliers and housing corporations, with the aim of identifying what is needed to build all new buildings without gas connection? Recently, a dissertation was published showing that without a substantial reduction in air traffic, the Paris climate targets are out of reach. The same is true in the case of highly polluting shipping. These sectors are also important partners at the table. And I agree with colleagues that we should also look at more sustainable agriculture and livestock farming. Savings are still as important as sustainable generation, especially as long as we still use fossil fuels. In the exploration we can read that the great importance of decreasing energy consumption regularly snows under. That does not seem to be a good thing, because savings are just as important for reducing emissions. 50PLUS urges the Minister to continue to steer it. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about our energy supply, we're talking about a vital sector. The sale of Eneco's shares to the free market is not what 50PLUS wants. You can still attach so many conditions to such a sale, conditions of sustainability, but if such a company is resold and resold, your terms will disappear automatically. So as far as 50PLUS is concerned, Eneco's shares remain in public hands. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch just want to be able to live a nice life, free, prosperous and safe, and with all the comforts we have and are used to now. If we want light, we turn on the switch, when we're cold, we turn on the stove and in the morning you step into a hot shower. We have done well in the Netherlands and we want to keep it that way. We want to pass our planet on to the generations after us in a good way. And that is why it is important that we switch to clean, sustainable fuels, so that we do not become dependent on dubious regimes even in the future, when we run out of fossil fuels. The energy transition is one of the biggest economic opportunities that we now see for Dutch companies and entrepreneurs. It is about innovation, about exports, and when we look at the National Energy Exploratory, it turns out that it is also about strong job growth. I was at an MBO school in Beverwijk two weeks ago. There I saw them retrain young people to work in that new sector of windmills, for example. They're learning how to maintain it. It looked fantastic and it's a great job. Maybe I would have tried it 20 years ago, but yes, I'm standing here; you have to do something. But it's really exciting things that happen there. The same applies to the retraining of people who may now be working in the grey industry and who want to switch to the green industry. This brings me to the letter on the cabinet commitment for a new climate agreement. Separate task groups are set up for labour market and funding issues. Can the Minister elaborate on what he has in mind? Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks, I have had a lot of conversations with companies, entrepreneurs, multinationals and representatives of interests. The great thing is that everyone wants to sit down at the table during the talks on the climate agreement. The tricky thing is: everyone wants to sit down at the table when they talk about the climate agreement. I know what the Minister said. He wants people with mandate, commitment and the will to make agreements and make decisions. The VVD welcomes that, too. But it's still a tricky puzzle that invites you for what. For the VVD it is very important that there is a balanced composition and outcome. How does the Minister see this and can he tell us a little bit more about this complicated puzzle? Next, it is very important that there is broad support for the climate agreement in business, civil society, at home. Then it doesn't help if we hear from the left in every debate, whether it's from the SP or from the PVV, that it's not working out, that it's not working out, that it's not working, that it's not working out, or that there should be more obligation or prohibition. But it is not only up to politics to guard the basis of support. That is precisely the task of everyone at the table in the climate agreement. I read that the climate council, a sort of umbrella table, has to monitor whether the agreements made enjoy social support. Can the Minister elaborate on this? How is this secured? What's this look like? Does this focus on consumer choice, transparency and cost efficiency? Do you want me to stop, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u84	I want you to finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u85	The sentence was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u86	All right, then I give the floor to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u87	It is good to hear Mrs Yeşilgöz say that it is important to have support in society. A number of groups have argued that in order to gain and maintain the support and not lose the support, it is important that the burden and desires are shared fairly. How does the VVD Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u88	That is a very important point, and I see it coming back to the cabinet commitment. I see that as a common thread. It has to be cost-efficient, we have to keep a close eye on the basis and we have to keep a close eye on the costs. Hence my question to the Minister: what does that mean, in concrete terms, at the table? I want the measures that are on the table to really pay particular attention to the consumer's freedom of choice and to know very well what lies ahead, that it is transparent. These are all extremely important parts, which is why my question is as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u89	Do you also share the view that it really must be a harsh precondition that these burdens and desires are distributed fairly? This is also due to the fact that the energy transition is expected, or with certainty, to be accompanied by huge transfers of income and capital. I have mentioned examples of this. Do you also see this fair distribution of lusts and burdens as a hard prerequisite for gaining and maintaining support in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u90	That is, of course, a very important aspect. When we talk about the energy transition, about the big job growth and about strengthening our economic prosperity and everything we have built up in this country, we need the big companies that are going to invest millions, perhaps billions. On the other hand, we need Dutch households to know where they stand. That balance is much more complex than just saying: it has to be honest and if it is not, then we withdraw our signature. The question is exactly how to make that assessment. Where does that get visible? What does that mean? And how does it actually all come back in a lower energy bill and a healthier climate? That's just what we all want. So I share the concerns, but I think the question is a little too short and simplistic. I'd like to know from the Minister how it gets back in all those tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u92	As far as the VVD is concerned, the mandate for the climate agreement is clear. It is also in the very first sentence of the letter on the cabinet commitment: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 49% by 2030. This is hard enough and ambitious enough in my opinion, so I really hope we keep our focus. I would like to know how the Minister is going to ensure that these discussions at the tables do not set all kinds of new targets, but that, above all, we really focus on that 49% and everything that can be done better, that, of course, we achieve this even better and even higher goals. Mr. Chairman. I am also very aware that we are asking a great many questions from all the actors who are currently working on this, but I think we can do something about it. It is very important for the success of this energy transition that companies and industries can make an effective and efficient contribution to this. Then there must be no obstacles, rules and laws in the way. For example, Heineken would like to be connected to the residual heat of the Rotterdam harbour, because this can help them to make their processes more sustainable. However, as it now looks like, the connection at the moment is only possible for households. That is a good example of a large company that wants to make it more sustainable, but is now being delayed and says: help me. There is also real thought, including in the province, about how this can be done better. I would like to see these kinds of issues just come on the table when discussing the climate agreement, and that the removal of obstructive rules and legislation is therefore really an important issue at those tables. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about the following. Soon at these tables are all kinds of companies, industries, sectors and umbrella organisations, and in the meantime we are all being visited by innovative companies that say: but perhaps I have some of the solution to the problem! Take, for example, what we often hear about what thorium, hydrogen or ultra-deep geothermal could all achieve. Then the initiators say: we wonder whether all this comes back to the industry, or how they can make their own processes in the sector more sustainable? I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is another role for the government. I am thinking of a facilitating role, for example when it comes to research into exactly what thorium might involve, a pilot into hydrogen or research into ultra-deep geothermal energy and whether you can really scale it up. Then we know that development is continuing in this area too. It is then, of course, a question of amounts that we, as a government, cannot afford on our own. That's not what I'm asking. I am asking for a facilitating role, a driving role, so that it can be done at the same time. I'm very curious about that. That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u93	Thank you. That was the first term of office. Oh, Mr. Van der Lee suddenly came up with another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was distracted for a moment, but I still had a question for the colleague of the VVD. She mentioned a number of examples of companies that are well-intentioned and take initiatives. According to her, that should be included in the table discussions. I love that. However, there is also an active group of companies, financial institutions. They have also developed a methodology to assess the CO footprint of investments in their portfolio. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius think it is a good idea to actively involve these companies in the discussions, because steering investments from sustainable ambitions can make a huge contribution to achieving all these beautiful goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u95	That too is a very good example. I also asked the Minister in my term: what is a balanced composition of these tables? I am also very curious to know how we got to the parties that are about to sit down at the table. The fact is that a great deal is already happening in this area. The fact is that not all brilliant ideas can sit at the table there. That is why I would like to know: how can we ensure that everything that lives can land in some smart way where it belongs? I have mentioned my examples, but I did not say that they must also be at the table. I want to know how we can achieve the interfaces. I think that is exactly what Mr Van der Lee wants, so if the Minister can comment on how that composition was designed, we will undoubtedly find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u96	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes and then we'll continue with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u97	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mr President, thank you. Many questions about the climate agreement, how it will go and where it will end, what goes with it and what doesn't. That is understandable, because this is, I think, one of the most extensive reform operations involving the whole of society and which everyone will notice. I just wanted to put all the things that have to do with success factors and the chances of success first. A few points have then been raised about the use of the cabinet. That's the second part. I don't know if it's all worth making cubes out of it, but in that order, I wanted to get through it. Thirdly, several questions have been asked about the tables, the task groups and all the things that are attached to them; clarification about them. Fourthly, much has been asked about the involvement of society in the process. There are also many questions about the public's acceptance that it will eventually notice and feel, including the questions about ambassadors and campaigning. Finally, concerns and wishes have been expressed about Parliament's involvement, not least from various quarters. So that at the end, but not because that would be the most insignificant thing. Furthermore, there are also a number of issues which are really different from those of the climate agreement, namely a few questions about the energy agreement. It's very tempting to stare us all blind at the process and whoever's at any table or whatever. I believe that the people present have been very limited in this respect and have remained on the main lines. That's important. The question that is of course raised several times under the skin here is: will we all succeed now, can we actually do this? What's it gonna take to get us to do this? I always find encouraging that in the past, although in the public sector, we may well say 'too late' in Mr Van der Lee's case, but his party has always intervened when there were negative external effects in the environmental sphere. Have we been able to solve them until now? Yes. Sometimes the economists really act before the politicians, I know that. There are books that say exactly the opposite, but I do not believe those books. The economists have really warned us a long time ago, but they have been doing so for a long time. At the end of the nineteenth century the streets were full of horse shit and the facades were black from the soot. We solved that. I'm still one of the generation that was warned we were breathing lead fumes. After all, there was lead in the gasoline. Our generation is probably just a little dumber than the generation after that, because it's affecting your brain. But we also solved that. There's no lead left in the gas. When I became responsible for air quality, I inherited seven places where air quality was too bad. Twenty years ago, it was 1,000. Perhaps Mr Van Raan has those numbers in front of him. Meanwhile, I am in a Chamber where I can look at several members of whom I suspect they have had another talk in high school about acid rain, but we have also solved that. But this one's a little heavier. We do have a more serious one. One day, in my first job at Shell, I was allowed to participate in the sulphur-freeing of diesel, yes. But this one is farther, because it's everywhere. An average household emits 25 tonnes per year. It's everywhere. It's in your house. 7 tons, 7,000 kilos of CO is in your house, including electricity consumption. It's not necessarily all made in the Netherlands. It has a footprint of 2 tons, 2,000 kilos of CO! What's the weight of clothes? The same applies to the car: twice the weight of the car to CO2 goes into the air each year. An extremely fascinating one, especially for Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan, is that also by feeding six tonnes of CO2 goes into the air. It's everywhere. It is also an international challenge. It doesn't stop at borders. The national effect, on the chimney: it's all nice and nice, but eventually the footprint and the shift effects also play a role. And it's not the government either. It's not like the government can stop. I have great admiration for the questions about government procurement policy, but it's all so small in the end. 98% of the production and consumption of electricity, of energy, my estimate is now perhaps very high on the high side, which is private and does not concern the government. So we share in this room a great deal of ambition that is mainly international in nature and that is not primarily about the government, but about our whole lives. What are we gonna do? What are we gonna do to make this work? I have a top three myself, but many of you have embraced the top three as well. First one's next. It is my sacred conviction; I have already started it in my first debate and in the budgetary treatment: love goes through the stomach, but acceptance goes through the wallet. If we are going to confront Dutch people with big bills, the majority will abandon. That majority, who might feel good about it and who also understands that we have to do something and who Hollands-sober understands that we have to clean up our mess, cuts off if it gets too expensive. That is important, because all the costs are already stated by Mr Kops himself and quotes me here in the end will end up with a citizen. Sure. And that's what we have to look out for. They end up in product prices, in rent, in inflation, in taxes, in energy bills, in pension returns: we're going to see it somehow. So my point is, the costs should be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u99	Yeah, as low as possible. The Minister has said: support goes through the wallet. Is that why he refuses to give insight into the total cost of energy transition and climate policy, namely that people will really all drop out when they find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u100	This question was raised twice by Mr Kops in the first period. I'll give him an answer, but I'll try to pursue the argument. We should not just keep these costs as low as possible. Of course, it makes sense to drop the costs as close to the source as possible, near the extinguisher. That's true. At the same time, I dare say that we must keep an eye on the playing field. We must then make the costs feasible. I will come back to the financial instruments, because it is very important. You can keep cost-effective for a long time, but if you come to the door to catch €18,000 for someone's house in one go, then we really scream. So we have to make the costs somehow manageable. I will come back to the financial instruments later. Of course, we come to the question of distribution. This climate agreement is not about distribution issues. This determines as well as that what the level of these costs might be, but then the distribution is to politics, not at the beginning of the climate agreement and not necessarily just at the end, but every year. It's in those purchasing power cards. I am not going to give any consideration to the question of whether additional instruments are needed. I see there are issues of distribution. They are there in every area, and that is what we have the purchasing power debate for. This is not just about the end of the climate agreement, but it is about time and again. This Chamber has asked me to include some figures on this in the NEV. That is not here and it is not at the tables; let's just say that. In fact, I will repeat a number of things that are not at those tables, but to you. The second important point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u101	Before going to the next point, Mr Moorlag has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u102	The Minister is right when he says 'that's political', but why should we wait for a result? We can, of course, say in advance that the burden-sharing must be fair. The Minister says, among other things, that you must allocate the costs to the source as much as possible. Does the Minister also deny how complicated that is? He needs to look into his own party and see how controversial that is. Does he share my view that you need to clarify in advance and that a fair sharing of burdens and lusts should be a harsh precondition for this operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u103	I think every election programme has said that it has to be fair. The point is, we can discuss what's fair for a long time. There have been parliamentary discussions here for a very long time about honesty, in which we do not embrace each other a priori, but have always come out. I think it would be pointless to have that discussion again at a time when no instrument is yet known, no cost is yet known and no financial instrument is known. That is not a fruitful discussion now, but Mr Moorlag knows as well as I do that we have a broad tradition in this Chamber of discussing distribution issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u104	But I don't think we're gonna have that discussion tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u105	No, we're not gonna do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u106	What political party is against honesty? Everyone will be in favour of a fair division, but the Labour Party fills that in a certain way: according to capacity. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u107	We all have our own views on what a fair division is. We don't even have to have that discussion exclusively on the basis of this transition, although the transition may sometimes be a reason for it. I am sure that we will again find moments to talk about this distribution, but not without the figures, measures, costs and financial instruments being known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u108	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u109	This isn't the time. I am sure that Mr Moorlag will be the guardian of his principles of fairness when it comes to the issue. That's what I'm counting on. But that's not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u110	No instruments, none of what you mentioned, but in the meantime the energy tax has already been considerably increased for the citizen. Well, that's already done. Wouldn't it have been better if you'd waited a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u111	The effects on the energy account in 2018 do not follow in any way from the government agreement. They were all trapped in the long-standing statue a long time ago. Mrs Sazias' party also had many moments to make all kinds of statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u112	I hope that there will not be such a blow later, if we do know a little more about these instruments. On the contrary, we wanted to argue that the distribution should be fairer and that we have the clear impression, and we are not just saying that the cost is now disproportionate for the citizens and too little for the polluting companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u113	I just said a lot of things about that. We have just heard Mr Kops explaining that he is always a reliable signpost when it comes to costs that all costs ultimately come to the citizen and that we should keep those costs as low as possible. I would like to go to a second point, which I think is a very important condition. If my second point fails, we're far away. The second point is that we really need to keep an eye on the playing field. Of course, we can easily achieve the climate targets by pushing all activities with CO emissions across the border, but I am sure that we will eventually emit significantly more CO because we are relatively CO-efficient in many areas, including agriculture. Moreover, we will have lost jobs. My point is that no one, whether on this side or on that side of the Chamber, can be in favour of driving away activities while the demand for those activities does not change, but jobs disappear and CO emissions increase. It's impossible to be there for that. The German govern ment agreements, which are sometimes praised here and there, are also strewn with oppressive formulas about competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u114	I think the Minister should look beyond the Netherlands alone on this point. He says we shouldn't be hunting activities abroad, but look at the animals in the livestock industry. There is still a large-scale logging of forest in the Amazon. There are areas that are five or six times the size of the Netherlands, where soy plantations are used for the cultivation of animal feed, which is fed to the animals here. That is also all CO emissions. In fact, we destroy the Earth's green lung, we plant soy there, and we feed it here to our animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u115	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u116	The question is: shouldn't the Minister take that into account? The impact of the Netherlands is also very large in terms of CO emissions abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u117	We can involve the tragedy on the other side of the earth in this debate, but what I am talking about is that shifting CO emissions and activities to cross-border areas is not a productive way of achieving climate goals. That has nothing to do with this, because that soy goes into the same animals, but on the other side of the border. I am sure Mr Wassenberg will agree with me at that level, but it is separate from the point he makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u118	No, that's a misdemeanor. That is what the Minister is saying: if it does not happen here, it will happen elsewhere. It's happening here. We need to take action here. And if we cut the rainforest to feed our animals here, you can't say: then we move it abroad. That's bullshit. The Netherlands is a country where insanely large numbers of animals have been kept in recent decades, for which more and more areas are being felled in the rainforest in order to grow soy. We need to make decisions about that here, and we need to bring it back here. In this way we can not only achieve less emissions here, but also less tree cover and less CO emissions in those countries on the other side of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u119	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u120	We're not having a livestock discussion here. But as long as people continue to eat the meat and the animals continue to eat the same, it really doesn't matter on which side of the border that happens, except that in many cases Dutch farmers can produce significantly more CO-friendly. Mr Wassenberg should be proud to do that, but I cannot get him to do that in this debate. There is a third condition that I think is very important. I have heard them here too: that is that we will need a lot of people for that transition. There is something there that I find very positive in principle. At the bottom and the top of the labour market, we have not felt so much that global pressure. That global pressure is really in the middle of the labour market. There you do not have the locality as a weapon, but also not the high level of education. The middle of the labour market has been able to be under pressure from global developments in a variety of analyses. Those are also the economic analyses. This is an opportunity for the middle of the labour market. We must celebrate, we must cherish it, we must applaud it. I believe that there are excellent jobs in the installation and construction sectors. I'm allowed to say that as a Delft bikemaker. The percentage of engineers in the cabinet is still slightly higher than in the Chamber, but we are a scarce asset. But those are beautiful orbits, and we have to fill them. We need the work, that has to be done. We offer people a career, a career. This work is needed over the next few decades. This work can be done by people if we provide adequate training and retraining. I would also mention the enthusiasm of young people for courses and courses which may have had less attraction in the past. I always call it the biggest luxury problem in the labour market in recent decades. But let me add that a luxury problem is still a problem. So that's what we need to do. Hence the task groups. I will come back to that in detail, because that is important. What is the government's commitment now? Mr President, I think Mr Jetten would like to ask another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u121	I waited for the minister to finish his top three. I think that is the case now. On the first point, the Minister just said that it is ultimately up to politics to determine where those costs land. I agree with him. We should also do this in the context of Princess' Day and all the pieces that come after it. But I'm still trying to imagine for myself what this means for all those people at the climate tables, but also for us as a room. At the climate tables, perhaps brilliant things are coming up that will, by definition, have an impact on where those costs will land. In the meantime, as a Chamber, we must not disturb the breeding chicken during the negotiations, but we are being discussed in an interim debate and then when the climate agreement is in place. But if we in the Chamber are going to say that the distribution of costs has to be completely different, they will not be happy at these climate tables either. Perhaps the Minister could give a more detailed explanation of how he sees this dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u122	Well, I don't know in detail, but I do know an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u123	I'll deal with this when the cabinet is deployed. It fits in there. By chance, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u125	I would like to reassure Mrs Yeşilgöz when it comes to the use of the cabinet. We have one goal. I'm on a ton hunt. I'm not hunting for any other business. There are all preconditions; that is certainly true. But this is about the barrel hunt. I am not the only one who says that it is the way to achieve the goal in the most effective and efficient way, because in the end emissions are not percentages of one or more of the other, but in tonnes. I'm on a ton hunt. That's the goal. What else is the stake? I think it's important to distinguish a few things. It also came back in the discussion here and there. Let me just be very clear about it: let us first distinguish which things are not on that table. That's important. Some things are not on that table, but on your table, here. Firstly, the distribution is not there. It is not up to companies or organisations at tables to determine where costs land. Of course, companies themselves are free to pass on costs. On the other hand, customers are free to buy or not buy the product. But it should not be the case that income, cost or burden-sharing arise at that table. That's one. The second thing that is not there is a discussion on 49%. Of course, 49% can change in conversations with other countries, but not in conversations at these tables. We have a coalition agreement and it says that we are currently focusing on 49%. If the target is adjusted, it will be adjusted, but that will not be determined at those tables. That's two. This also means that the tonne table is in principle leading. Of course, all exchanges are possible. In all honesty, I say that there should be a new barrel table. That's what I wrote in that letter. The PBL has counted on that once again. It seems that it leads to other outcomes, which are closer to a real goal. So we'll adopt it. They'll be here at the end of March. We're gonna have to deal with that later, but they're leading. What is not under discussion is the phasing out of coal. The minimum CO pricing is not under discussion either. Of course we look very intensively at the consequences. That's what we do with the industry. We never make policy with our eyes closed. If it turns out it has to be different or whatever, maybe it has to be different. That's what we're discussing here, but it's not for negotiation at the tables. It is possible that there are better ideas or that it should be implemented differently. It's all possible. You can do it with all these things. But it's not a negotiating point on those tables. Then we have written all kinds of things in the government agreement on aviation in a European context and so on. Whatever we've written down there, those are things that aren't negotiable. Nor do they belong to this agreement. The same applies to the financial frameworks. Of course, on the way, it can be seen that this is something that needs to be dealt with differently in the finances, but that can never be the outcome of such a climate agreement, because in the end, the budget law is here and not at those tables. It may be a result, but for the time being the frameworks of the coalition agreement and the budget are the most appropriate framework, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u126	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u127	At this point, I'm actually done. I know what question Mr Van der Lee is going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u128	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u129	All the points raised by the Minister when it comes to what is not at the tables, but must play in politics, I agree, except for the latter, because it can be interpreted as meaning that the subsidy instrument can no longer be discussed if it has a budget that exceeds the agreements of the government agreement. Can I understand that all the instruments can be discussed at that table, i.e. subsidies, standards and pricing policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u130	The question is whether we can talk about subsidies at the table. Things can come out of the discussion on the tables that lead the government, being this Chamber and the government, to redesign such an arrangement. But it is not the case that public arrangements that this Chamber is about are being negotiated on tables with private parties outside the eyes of society, outside the eyes of parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u131	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. So it also means that we can think about instruments that have a grant component attached to them. Then it is up to politics to assess whether this is going to be achieved. But one does not have to stop thinking because it is quite clear: it should not cost more than that much euro in the coming cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u132	What we have said is that we are ensuring that it is cost-effective. But if these insights lead to other ideas, we do not close our eyes to policies. As soon as this affects budget law or legislation, it is here. But thinking is never forbidden. A number of rules in the positive that are on the table are clear in the letter. I refer to the focus on cost efficiency. It must also be borne in mind that not everything will succeed. Not all ideas work. We send on the net number and not on the gross number. It must be true not only by sector, but also together. There are also a number of sectors which make considerable use of electrification, but this must be understood at the other table. Different questions have been asked about the different tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u133	I might have expected the Minister in the block about what is not on the table to include climate adaptation. But maybe he's saying, "That's on the table." That's what I'm thinking now, but is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u134	That's very challenging. I am pleased with this question, because I did not mention it. I probably would have come across it in my notes. The climate envelopes are aimed at tons of CO. So we are not going to build dikes of climate money. However, there are projects that serve both objectives. I understand, in particular, from the waterboards that there are projects that can play a fruitful role both in one domain and in the other. That needs to be looked at more closely. But in principle, the budgets are there to ensure that CO emissions are reduced and not to mitigate the effects of higher CO2 emissions. That's what it is. So that's not on the table either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u135	If it strengthens each other and serves both objectives, can we claim the EUR 300 million from the envelope that the cabinet has for everything that is on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u136	If something serves two goals and it also has two different funding shoulders, things can be made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u137	I think that the Minister is getting over the budgetary aspect quite easily, in the vein of: we are all going to take care of that. We are already seeing the shadows ahead. From 2021 onwards, municipalities will have the right to free natural gas districts and we have an obligation to make 250,000 homes a year more sustainable. 250,000 homes times €20,000 is just 5 billion a year. It must then be made clear where the 5 billion a year of investment capacity comes from. If the municipality knocks at your door and says "you will be cut off from the natural gas" while you just bought a new central heating boiler last year, then how should we deal with the question of the capital destruction that is taking place? You can say "we're all gonna see that," but I think it's a little light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u138	I'm not finished yet. We are still getting to the financial instruments. I have said that I am going to talk about public acceptance and how we should approach it. I share the concern of Mr Moorlag, but let me finish. If I forget the unexpected, he should at least hit me verbally. Then I'm gonna get my act together. It's a very real point, not a bad word about it. I'm talking a lot about it, let me put it this way. We could have a drink about it. The sector tables. I really think of the sector tables as the engine block, because they are given the tonnes and they have to do it. They will also be given the task of doing it cost-effectively, but not only because they will also be given the task of making it financially viable in cooperation with the funding task group. Again, if we ring a doorbell at a household to raise €18,000, it won't work. As we have always done throughout the whole construction of this country with its gas networks, sewers, water pipes and electricity grids, we must do it here too. We have to cut large investments in such a way that it becomes manageable and acceptable. But I will come back to Mr Moorlag's broader point later. The independent presidents of the sectoral tables are currently setting up their tables. I think that in total some 150 individuals will soon participate, but the number of applications is many times greater. There are table presidents who almost panicked when they saw how many applications there were and they had to limit all those applications to a few dozen. That was a lot of trouble. The climate council is monitoring progress. Those five presidents are in there. That council should keep an eye on the cross-sectoral issues and one of them is, of course, space. It was Mrs Dik-Faber who said: well, that will be something if we roll out very sunshine and wind, because what will be left for agriculture? That spatial sector-based cross-link must be established. It cannot be the case that, at one table, the country is being redesigned without looking at the balance and how we feel about it. That's one of those cross-links. Innovation is another. How do we spread the focus across the different areas of innovation? In fact, separate task groups have been set up for financing, labour market and training, which depend on climate change. I'll say something about that in a minute. Of course, this climate council has the mandate to invite anyone who wants to invite them, and depending on the subject, you can also find several attendees. The first task force is funding. I sometimes hear it as "Finance," like that's where the money comes from. No, it's really "financing." It is therefore the development of financial instruments. I have positioned myself in the fan club "building-related funding" and I still belong to that. But the question is, for example, how institutional investors can invest in heat grids. How do we make that possible? How do we make it attractive for those institutional investors to invest in it? How do we ensure that people are not confronted with large bills and that it disappears neatly in fixed duty and it is earned back with lower consumption? It's investments that last for decades and there's no reason to cough them up today. How do we ensure, for example, that Invest-NL, a vehicle often referred to in this gremium, is used? However, I am strict: we must place it where it is necessary and, above all, do not place it where it is not necessary, otherwise it will be over. So those are the funding questions that lie with that task force. It is specialised work and the tables must also register funding questions there. Another point is the labour market; I have already spoken about it. That labour market task force has, I think, been in possession of an ESC opinion since April. The previous cabinet has requested that ESC opinion on this energy transition. The ESC always works so smoothly that it may come sooner, but it may not. With this SER advice in hand, we must try to make the transition from old to new with education, training and the interest of young people. And mind you, we have 1.2 million people in the Netherlands who can work and want to work. There's gonna be a couple of people here who see opportunities. So that's a separate task force. The parties with specific expertise and a history and influence will play a part in this. And there's enthusiasm for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u139	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u140	I was done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u142	Actually, about both task groups. I'm glad the Minister's already saying something more about what's supposed to happen. I also understand that it should be in line with existing initiatives such as Invest-NL. It makes me feel good to hear that, otherwise it will be something extra and I think: what are we all doing here and what does that offer? I would like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to tell the Chamber on 1 June or so how these task groups are going to proceed, so that we can get a little more insight into that. Are they, for example, going to see if your work could be stimulated by fast depreciation periods? What do they do? What are those extras? I'd like to get a closer look at that. This also applies to the task force on the labour market, because if we already have a Technics Pact, what are they going to do extra? I'm really wondering. I don't have a picture of that yet and I would like to have more of what we can expect from it as a Chamber before they go into the summer and have to do real hard work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u143	Will I explain in detail later how I see Parliament's involvement? Because this is just one point. The same applies to these sectoral tables. What kind of things are there to do? How do we see the intersections? What great choices do we see? I actually wanted to pay particular attention to the many questions that have been asked about Parliament's involvement. There some of the spokesmen might also have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u144	You also said at the beginning that this point will be given special attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yes. Some still have the scars of the energy chord on the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u146	Deep. Very deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u147	It's been mentioned a few times. I'll go into that separately. Let me do this in the broadest sense, otherwise it will become a blank and the subject deserves a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u148	Well, well, well. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u149	The Minister has already told us a bit more about the financial instruments than in the letter, what this task force needs to do. For the sectoral tables, concrete results have been mentioned in the cabinet letter. However, I regret that we are missing it for, among other things, the table that deals with the financial instruments. The Minister has now mentioned a few examples. Does this include financial instruments for business? The Minister now mentions examples of building-related financing. By now, I think the whole room is a member of that fan club. But the business community will also be faced with financing commitments. Is that from that task force too, or is that elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u150	I think that's an interesting question. I want to admit that I am a big fan of the concept of a financial instrument, but that is still at the beginning. As far as I know, the group isn't quite complete. So these are interesting questions. I will link that question with the way the Chamber is involved and when we will find out more about it. Different subjects seem the same, but they are not. I think that the involvement of all kinds of Dutch people and organisations in the conclusion of the agreement is something other than support at the level of the households and the people themselves. So I would like to deal with them separately and start with the involvement of society in the conclusion of this agreement, in this discussion. The fact remains that you don't put 17 million people in a room to discuss this. It remains that no one wants to sit at the table if you do everything in public, at least not the parties who might fear that they will be ruled. How do we want it? At these tables there are about 150 people who have a mandate and who have direct contact with their supporters. There are a lot of important decision-makers behind this process, who will slowly realise that they need to take steps and respond to what is happening in society and how they need to work with other companies and institutions. That's the first layer. Those presidents then, of course, have the opportunity to put all kinds of separate groups to work. You can call them clusters, like sometimes called subtables, special assignments, you name it. It is obvious to look separately at things for which there is a great curiosity and interest in the built-up environment, e.g. geothermals. In electricity, hydrogen is a theme that really deserves special attention. There are more people involved in that entourage. It should also be possible to work with a kind of webbased knowledge building, with modern research. The formation of opinions is different these days. It's not like you're giving your idea to one institution that says whether it's a good idea or a bad idea and where you get feedback from. Much more web-based knowledge is provided and made available in networks. People react to each other. It's about getting ideas in a modern way. This should take place in dialogue with the Presidents of the sectoral tables. I am not yet on a very specific point, because we need to put these tables together first. Trying to get people who have good ideas to come forward with them. They may include technology, support, techniques or policies. After that, other people can pick up those ideas and maybe process them further. There's access, there's room for new ideas. We don't just need the legacy parties at the table so it becomes a closed shop. In addition, at the fourth level, there are all kinds of parties already working on this. Those parties do not necessarily have to sit at the table and do not necessarily have to play all the roles. They're just doing all kinds of work on the transition. TenneT does not have to take any of this into account in all respects. TenneT knows that a lot of things have to be built and can just work on it. Those are the levels. I'm getting on board. These levels do not yet include the households themselves, the people who have to do something. I am also asked a lot and the people present here probably also: what should I do now? It's not the 70% that's asking this, but it's the 10%. At this stage we are still really at the point where you can say that isolating is always good and that not a gas fire in the room is also a good idea. However, there is still no comprehensive approach. After talking about it with different people, it is my belief that we will only get the support of two things. Now going by the doors as part of a campaign makes little sense. You can't say something big is coming, but we're not telling you what yet. People will not find that reassuring: I have to do something, but they don't even know what. The first point is that there is clarity about what is going to happen. Now I come to Mr Moorlag's point. I have had the VNG and the municipalities at the table and congratulated them on having a truly primary, crucial role in this process. The municipality is the government that makes the heat plan, knows what happens to your street and has to take people on. That is not by putting a note on the bus or publishing in the local newspaper that between the year x and the year y there will be a heat network à la sister and so on. People must be taken and informed. It is obvious that people are approached and that they have options. They need to know what they can do in a given period of time and what that means for their home, the construction and the costs. People need to be able to see on a small road map what the possibilities are on their streets. Where can they choose from? Who's coming over to set it up? How's it going? People don't do that themselves. The second is that we make it easy to handle. We need to make it financially viable. People need to be able to sign in on something in such a way that they can process it. They have to be able to pay it, or it has to be financed somewhere, so that it can be included in, for example, the basic right. If we haven't taken care of these two things, none of this will happen. I am now thinking with the municipalities about which manual we can make to do it in an attractive way. That's the time to create support and appeal to people. Then there is an action perspective and there are possibilities. Then we can think about campaigns aimed at the public. Then we can also think about ambassadors. I can imagine that this would have to be done in different sectors or perhaps even by municipality. I don't know if that's necessarily national. My proposal would be to include that whole support plan and the communication surrounding it, including the part of the municipalities, in the elaboration of that agreement after the summer, so that at the end of the year we have a plan for that which we can talk about here: how do we deal with it, how do we get everyone involved? That would be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u151	Is this point finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u152	Yes, this point has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u153	Then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Clear, those two points: first make clarity, then behavior. But I'm missing one third step. This has something to do with the democratization of energy supply. Is there also a moment of participation in decision-making? What are we going to do at what level? We no longer live in the age when the gas was introduced from above. They also want to participate and participate in the decision. Isn't that a third step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u155	It's certainly not for me to block that. That part of entrepreneurship, which, by the way, your colleague from the SP is also regularly advocating, will certainly not be stopped by me. That is not something we are deciding here, but there is no reason to say that it should all be done by governments. There is, of course, ample opportunity, in itself already, to settle things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u157	The municipalities are in the climate council. I have asked the Minister whether this position is sufficient, also because, just as he describes, there is a great responsibility for municipalities. They have to make plans and they have to get people along, enthusiasm and information. Did I hear correctly that the Minister implicitly says: that they are in the climate council that's fine, that's a good step, but after that there's still a lot behind and we're going to work with municipalities to make schematics et cetera, et cetera? Because if it stays with the climate council, I honestly have a little less confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u158	I don't know where that lack of trust should come from. It is clear that they have this role and that they must do so. It is clear to me that together we must develop something for this, also some kind of template. Not every municipality of the 380 is equally competent to take marketing to its own inhabitants. It is clear to everyone that there should be some sort of toolkit, an approach, perhaps with something like a national campaign on it. Well, that could be a good idea. I have had an extremely enthusiastic conversation with the VNG about this, in which we have really stated that this kind of thing needs to be done. I haven't heard from them that they don't think they're involved much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u159	Proceed, Minister. Wait, Mr. Kops first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u160	The Minister talked about making things easier for us and that we should have the support of the citizens. He was also talking about funding. What exactly does he mean by that? That citizens, households, have to take out loans in order to pay all the costs? That they're being paid deep into debt? Already 37% of households have late payments, just difficulties in paying the bills. A million households already have trouble paying the energy bill, literally sitting in the dark. Is the minister going to charge those people, those households, with costs, loans, debts? That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u161	I am pleased, on the one hand, that Mr Kops is beginning to develop a certain amount of curiosity about what is going to happen in that climate agreement, but he is getting ahead of things and is using very big words for something that does not yet exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u162	Something that doesn't exist yet, no. But we're talking about this right now. That is exactly what the Minister does in several debates: do not want to say anything about the costs. But we are talking about a climate agreement that is coming up and the Minister refuses to clarify the costs over and over again. That's impossible, isn't it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u163	We're on our way. I will pass through Mr Kops' questions when I pass through those of the various Members. Mr Kops is curious about the costs. Me too. You can calculate it when you know what you're gonna do. I told him that we're not getting support until it's easy for the households and he gets angry and asks, "What? Does that mean that's no longer easy?" No. My point is exactly the way Mr Kops wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u164	We come to Parliament's involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u165	Parliament, yes. I wasn't there and I don't have that scratch on my face, but I've heard from several members of this Chamber that their perception is that the involvement in the energy agreement hasn't been seen as optimal. Let me say in advance that there can be no agreement that in that sense is an agreement that would put the Chamber at a disadvantage in terms of its legislative task or budget law. It can't be. So if it comes out of an agreement that things have to be different in law or in budgets, it's ultimate in this Chamber. Before then, of course, there is no definitive agreement. It's not like you're gonna hit it once; there are stretches of law. Yes, of course, it is always possible for politics to make agreements with each other whether something looks good or not, but it is ultimate in this Chamber and nobody changes it. That's the law of the state, and that's not gonna go down here. So that's before. But how would you like to organize that? The first is, of course, that we are talking in the debate about the stakes here. I don't have the illusion that it's necessarily just this session. You have ample opportunity to ask written questions or to put questions to me in other ways during debates. We can do all that, but we'll discuss the stakes in advance here. Then parties have to work. They'll do that in private. They work. I don't think that's all state secret, and I don't think it's all about closed curtains, but there's just private parties talking to each other. Governments are in directing or facilitating roles, but in the end the big tour will be the force for private parties; not only for households, but also for industries, for all kinds of organisations, cooperatives and so on. They'll discuss it with each other. In the summer there must be some sort of main line. That is not yet an agreement, but it is the main thrust; that is important. I can imagine that it would be possible to do so just before the summer, for example, to organise a kind of technical session in which the state of affairs, the dilemmas, the remaining points, the formation of thought would simply be presented and technically discussed. These are all things that cannot yet be voted on; there are no legislative proposals, there are no budgetary proposals. That will simply be the central point: what are we talking about now? That seems to me to be a sensible course of action, because there is no reason to be very secretive about it either. Then that will be further worked out and at some point you will come to something that is an agreement, in the sense that of course it is not an agreement if there are still things that are needed from this Chamber, but we have just talked about that. So there is an agreement. If, therefore, action is taken before this Chamber, they simply come to this Chamber in proposals, legislative proposals, budgets, and that can then be discussed again and finally decided upon. So that's how I see it. This means that where the government is concerned either through budget or through legislation, it does not disappear from this Chamber. There's no slap in the face somewhere in a room on something that isn't yours after that. That is my wish and that would be my commitment to this process. As far as I am concerned, the role of this Chamber, with which I have in fact made a commitment to this Chamber, but also in response to Mrs Mulder's question, in order to provide adequate information in the interim. It's coming for the summer; I hope I can make it, but otherwise it'll be just after the summer. Do you mind if I take a small blow to the arm? I can see from the faces that Mrs Mulder does not like it and Mr Van der Lee might like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u166	Okay, you can think about it. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u167	I had a question about this exactly. In my opinion, it would be reassuring for the Chamber if we could set a date before the summer, when we still have a moment when we are being updated, no matter where you stand in that process. I think we're going to recess on July 6th, so it's got to be somewhere in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u168	The question is clear. That is what the Minister has just said: either before the summer or after the summer. But maybe it's good to later...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u169	I'm quite willing to put pencil on the agenda for an information session at the end of June. If I can convince you that it will be better to do so later, it will depend on my strength of conviction. Shall we do it like this? Shall I try to organize it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u170	Yeah, I think that's very good. In addition, I have one additional question on the process. I can remember from previous discussions that the Minister's desire to keep pace and speed up also had to do with the fact that he wanted to take some account of what is happening there in his budget preparation for 2019. Is that still the Minister's ambition, and what exactly does he need when it comes to the progress of this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u171	That is a big guess, because for the moment, as we know, the frameworks are the frameworks. I don't prelude on organizing a billion-dollar grab with Prince's Day, but it's always more convenient if you know more before such a decision. But I know what I know. We're doing our best, and I think we should hold this information session with this Chamber by the end of June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u172	I was thinking more about mid-June, so that perhaps after that information session we could have a general consultation on energy/climate, where, if we still have concerns, we can still share those concerns with the Minister. Then we can do it before June 6th. That information session is fine in the third week of June and then in the fourth week of the debate or in the week of 6 July, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u173	We are not going to discuss the agenda, but your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u174	Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u176	My answer is not yet clear. I'm gonna have to think about that. It must all remain feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u177	Okay, then you can come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u178	There are 150 people out there working their asses off and I have to deal with that respect. If I had to do it on my own, it was a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u179	That is actually a bit of what I would like to ask Mr Mulder on a detour, but I will ask the Minister. We are now setting the frameworks together. We give a central purpose, an assignment at those tables. We are all written down and bombarded by enthusiastic people who say: I want to think about a table. Then I think it's really crazy when you say... no, let me put it the other way around. I think it makes perfect sense when you say: I want a technical briefing and I want to know if everything is going the way we agreed on the front. But I think it would be very complicated if we wanted to negotiate on this side and also have precise access to the negotiations and talks that are taking place there. I wonder what it adds. I wonder how that makes the process better or faster. So let's just do that technical session so that we know where we are, so that the minister can indicate if there are any obstacles that the Chamber should remove at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u180	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u181	And then let it land there for a while. That's really super important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u182	I think you guys were just about to come to a solution on when, and the minister just said he'd come back to that in the second term. Then you can still go into that and accept it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u183	I am going through the questions of the various speakers that I may not have answered. Mr Van der Lee warned that the ACM should be involved in good time. I'm from the department of the ACM, so we should signal if anything happens that's ACM-sensitive. So that is a warning addressed to the right person. The balance sheet of the parties at the table is also mainly monitored by the President. They still have quite a head-on about that, but that is understandable. A number of spokesmen, including Mr Van der Lee, have asked questions about whether this is going to happen and whether this is going to happen, such as air traffic. I am trying to do it in general, because Mr Jetten has also asked a question about shipping. I think we should now see that the international aspects of aviation and shipping are not in that climate agreement, because they are not at all part of these emissions. There are, moreover, other passages on this in the government agreement, for example, our intention to commit ourselves at European level to aviation taxation. If this doesn't work out, maybe you can do it, and you might end up doing something yourself. That is what aviation is all about in the coalition agreement. The same applies to the Maut, which was specifically the subject of a question by Mr Jetten. But the international aspects are not in this. That doesn't mean you can't do other things. In the field of non-international shipping or the ground-based part of aviation, you may be able to do something. I wouldn't want to rule that out. I don't see any reason to rule that out now. If I am strongly mistaken, I will be told by another department. Let's see. We have, I think, talked quite extensively about the livestock, and not just about Mr Van der Lee's questions. An important point by Mr Van der Lee concerns the effects of relocation. Those effects are kind of my hobby too. If you say that moving cattle or industry abroad does not help, then you should also be prepared to do the opposite. That's what happens at those tables. There are also international aspects that work positively. For example, you have such a dilemma in the chemical industry. In the chemical industry you can rely on the chimney, but 90% or 80% of the physical products go abroad, with hydrocarbons being used as raw materials. Is that what you're counting on? Well, that would actually be wise. Even if it goes abroad, it's the same earth, the same atmosphere and the same CO quantity, right? So we have to try to make these things transparent in a smart way. I wrote in the letter that we are making it transparent for the time being to make it possible to take policy decisions that are beneficial. The aim is national, but that does not relieve us of the obligation and the desire to understand these things in order to be able to play with them in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u184	I'll come back to the part about the mobility table. I just want to make sure I understood the Minister correctly. Has the Minister now promised that the national impact of the aviation sector and the maritime sector will be given a role at the mobility table of this climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u185	Yeah, I think that's feasible. Mr Jetten is looking at me so closely now that I almost think I am making a colossal error of reasoning and my colleague is going to be very angry. If it doesn't make sense, I'll come and apologize. There is another question from Mr Van der Lee about the circular economy. It is not exactly calculated, but there is the impression that there is a megaton of circular projects across the sectors. Part of the task at those tables could therefore be achieved through circular projects. There are examples of this, and we are working very seriously on it. The Secretary of State of I and W has given this policy a new impetus and is working on very concrete things. I have great appreciation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u186	Last question, Mr. Van der Lee. You've really made up all your questions, both now and now. I think it's pretty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u187	I used to learn how to count well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u188	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u189	I had one more question, which I had already asked in my term. It is about transparency about all the calculation methods used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u190	Oh, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u191	Then it is not just about mapping the CO reduction per instrument, but also about who will actually get the credits for achieving a certain effect. You want parties to commit to things, but then they want to be rewarded; not financially, but in recognition for their contribution. How this is calculated should be transparent for all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u192	That is generally true, but I do not yet see exactly where the dilemma lies. Perhaps Mr Van der Lee can give an example in which it is not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u193	Very briefly, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u194	One of the lessons of the Energy Agreement 1.0 is that there was too little transparency about the methods used by the PBL to present certain outcomes. If that is not clear, it is very difficult for the parties involved to issue commitments. I think there should be an extra blow there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u195	I cannot make a precise assessment of that at this stage. I had a conversation with PBL. They have told me that they are upgrading and hardening the measuring instruments for this purpose. This also leads to a new table. We need to see what that gets us. I have not yet been able to judge that myself, but I do trust it, because they are very busy following this in a credible way and can be with the authority, the calculator on this journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u197	Mr Jetten has asked me all kinds of questions. Maybe I'll come back later on about the energy agreement. Well, his question is "are we achieving the goals?" And I can answer that as well. All kinds of extra appointments have been made. Everyone has to walk on their toes and do the utmost. If everyone walks on their toes and does the utmost, we'll make it. A lot more possibilities to make it easier or to bring it closer, I don't see anymore at some point. So this is actually the answer. That means everyone, including the Empire and I, has to keep walking on their toes. We really need to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u198	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u199	The diplomatic offensive is going on, but as it goes with diplomatic offensives, you don't report everything about it. All sorts of things are being prepared. Let's see what I've had and what I haven't had. I think I'm here. No, there's been another very important misunderstanding. There are two very good readers in this company and they have seen the 30,000 to 50,000 homes. That's a mistake. The coalition agreement is, of course, always the right text. It should have said, "at the end of this reign," and the number is per year. There's just something gone; thank you for the careful reading. Mr Wassenberg warns that everyone is in favour of their own interests. He raises a rabbit who doesn't want to prepare himself at Christmas; you shouldn't ask the rabbit. Well, that's true, but that parties themselves sit at the table and have to deliver their own ideas, is useful in the sense that it is also not very wise to have the rabbit prepared by someone who can't roast meat at all, and the government is in that position. We cannot judge all these chemical or metallurgical processes ourselves. We will leave the preparation of the rabbit to the rabbit and certainly not to someone who is not used to roast meat at all, and let Mr Wassenberg sit in that category.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u200	I asked that, of course, because those companies are there for their own good. We have seen in the energy agreement that climate chips were suddenly called sustainable, which ultimately made everyone very unhappy, including your predecessor in office. That is such an example of something where we should have listened a little less to the energy sector. We would not have called it sustainable and at least we would have been done with it. That's why I asked. Make sure everyone doesn't just defend their own interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u201	Here it did meet the standards. I would like to say this, but I am not going to be able to give you other examples where perhaps the self-interest has been very popular in retrospect. What I'm putting out at those tables is that it shouldn't be a party for lobbyists, it should just be hard work for the public interest. That's what it is. Whether maintaining the Environmental Management Act is a breakthrough is a question of conscience which I leave to Mr Wassenberg himself. I enjoyed Mrs Dik-Faber's lecture on Polsbroekerdam, which, surprisingly, has exactly the same sustainability rate as the Netherlands average. It's the Netherlands in small. We have been asked how companies become aware of enforcement. There have been extensive discussions with the companies. The tightening of the Environmental Management Act stands as well on the retina. We have not neglected enforcement, but have even intensified it somewhat. That was a call from Mr Van der Lee, whom I do not see at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u202	He's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u203	We should be able to walk on our toes to speak in the jargon of just now. This also applies to the bottlenecks for land-based wind. We must do everything in our power to do that too. It is too far-reaching to give a general answer to this, because there are different bottlenecks for different projects. There is a wide variety of bottlenecks, up to and including in the telecoms sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u204	A brief question about this. It has come to my attention that if we want to achieve the objectives, all these bottlenecks will have to be resolved within three months, otherwise we will simply be late because of the lead time of projects. Does the Minister know that period or can we give ourselves a little more time? If it's three months, it's hard to get to work and take away all the bumps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u205	It is necessary to get to work very hard and take away all the bumps, but I don't know the three-month period. I'll dive in for a while. But it's necessary anyway. The conclusion that we must do the utmost is justified. Sun PV, schools, agricultural holdings and churches can now claim the netting arrangement. It's gonna go on the shovel. Hopefully, a letter will be sent to the Chamber by the end of this quarter. Then I'll pay attention to this group. I admit that I am going to deal with what that means for this group in the design of a new regulation. Mrs Mulder did not disappoint me in her calls for support. She was also one of the careful readers, but I have now answered the question. She asked whether compensation for residents could become compulsory. We've seen the following more than once. The province that Mrs Mulder feels so connected to has recently been a very good proof of that. Initiators of wind-on-land projects must have timely, but also intensive, contact with local residents. Local participation is a very good way to involve people, but the code of conduct is not a legal regulation. The code is an agreement made by the sector with the other parties. But to make this code of conduct mandatory does not seem to me to be the issue. It is important that we follow this type of behaviour because otherwise it will simply be a very complicated battle for entrepreneurs in the wind on land. I do not think there is any need for an obligation, but where the authorities are competent, they are urged to do so. There is also a green deal on the subject coming up, with different parties from society and the sector. I believe that this should also be addressed in the climate agreement. As far as wind on land is going to play a role, we have to work with such mechanisms, because it is otherwise fragile, and that is another understatement. She has also asked a question about the procurement policy of the government, but that is a question that belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's been going on for a while. There is an objective to reduce energy consumption by a quarter between 2008 and 2020 and to purchase energy sustainably. Special attention will also be paid to the grounds of the government in order to develop renewable energy projects there. The same applies to waterboards. Then she asks if hydrogen actually has opportunities in the North of the Netherlands. Oh, yeah, I'd say so. There are also very concrete proposals from the North of the Netherlands. I've already talked to drivers in the North about that. Mrs Beckerman asks an important question about what might be just that one other scratch we have gotten in the energy agreement: the enforceability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u206	You have to be there, because sometimes the minister is so fast. I indicated in the first term that the CDA would prefer not to see solar panels on fertile agricultural land, but on rooftops. Mrs Dik-Faber also drew attention to this. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u207	I don't think we should rule out options. It's en-and. Sun PV not on rooftops produces much more durability per euro subsidy, so I think it is en-en. I do not think that we should make that assessment digital either; this should not be done and that should be done. I don't think that's the way to set up space either. Mr Wassenberg will want to move the livestock across the border. Mrs. Mulder may not want the sun. It's not a big country, and we have to deal with it carefully. We just need to look at that space in an integral way. There is an exercise at BZK to really make a National Environment vision. That has a very strong connection with this exact route. There is competition for our scarce space, but we should not choose black and white approaches. This is a trade-off that will eventually come back to our democracies: provincial, municipal and perhaps also here. But let's not take the theories now that there won't be a sun that won't be on rooftops anymore. That's a statement I don't dare make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u208	I think I'm very much in favour of sunshine on rooftops, but it's about those farmland. If they're really super-fertile, we should just use them for agriculture. In fact, the Minister says that he wants to keep his hands free until the energy and climate agreement, so I interpret what the Minister says. Let me make it clear to the CDA that the CDA does not want that, as a prerequisite. I hope that those who will be sitting at the table will also know clearly that this signal has been given in the Chamber. What is very important when you go to solar panels on huge fields is that you get exactly the same discussion as when you are on land, namely that there must be support for it. In that case, it will be particularly essential for the climate agreement to include acceptance much more explicitly. The letter says something about support, but it is not one of the frameworks, such as cost-effectiveness. Will the Minister of Support also create a framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u209	The framework for support. I think we need to look at how realistic this is, what space is for it and what it takes to get support for it. In general, it is difficult to say anything about this now. I think that the support conditions for wind on agricultural land are quite different from those for sunshine on agricultural land. There are very different aspects to that. Then let's not be too general about that. We all know that the basis of support is not automatic. We have learned those lessons. And that if you want to plan wind or sunshine on agricultural land or land, you still have a hoop to jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u210	I'd like to take the minister back to Polsbroekerdam in the Lopikerwaard. What's happening there is really very interesting. There are all kinds of locations that are very suitable for solar panels: the public buildings, the churches, the schools. They are not used because the scheme is not attractive for these situations, but in the meantime the agricultural land is being looked at. So what happens is that options are not being used, while solar panels are being installed on agricultural land in the middle of the Green Heart. I don't think that's very nice spatially either, but that wrings. At the place where you want them, they don't come, and at the place where you don't like them, they come. Would the Minister like to take another look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u211	I have promised that I will pay attention to this target group when designing the scheme: the schools, the churches. But it is not necessarily the case that, if a subsidy scheme is not sufficient to get certain solar panels somewhere, this is immediately a missed opportunity. Because it could also be that, at cost, we probably get much more electricity from sun on land than from sun on rooftops. We may have to consider that. And that consideration is not infinite. I can hardly imagine that the Netherlands will soon be a country with no grass left because there are only blue panels left. We can't imagine either one of them. But the other extreme, where we have to have everything on rooftops and so everything probably at much higher costs and much higher uneconomic peaks, is also a reality that I oppose. Because in the end everything is paid for somehow by the Dutchman, even if we choose expensive solutions instead of cheap ones. So I do not want to make an absolute choice in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u212	I understand that the Minister says: forever and all situations make an absolute choice, I prefer not to. In principle, this is also local decision-making. I find the situation I have just outlined very undesirable. Now Holland Solar has developed the solar ladder. That is a balancing framework, a spatial tool to see where you can realize solar PV. These are the spatial instruments that are needed, perhaps not primarily for the Empire, but for those municipalities in order to make the right balance. Is that the reasonable alternative for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u213	I don't know the ladder, but I can guess. I can imagine an organization like Holland Solar says: you better do it on rooftops first and then on farmland. But the social costs we bear together here are the revenues of the members of Holland Solar. So if in that framework, in that ladder, the costs don't occur, then I dare question the absoluteity of that ladder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u214	I still have to correct the minister. He said, if it were up to me, I'd move the cattle across the border. But that's exactly what's happening right now. Because every year tens of millions of animals are transported dead or alive across the border. The Netherlands is the butcher, the polier and milkman of Europe. The minister laughs, but soon, in the summer, you get high temperatures again and then you see the horrible images of the pig transports at 35°C, 40°C. That is the reality. Three quarters of Dutch meat and dairy sales go abroad. A minister's predecessor once said: we sell the meat, but we stay here with the shit. And that's literally true. So the moment we are in the process of reaching a national climate agreement, we must take account of the emissions of all those animals here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u215	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u216	Does the Minister agree with me that my question is that we simply need to focus much more on a plant-based diet, that we should not be Europe's butcher and polier anymore, but that we should start to consume more, much more, plant-based in the Netherlands and also want to be Europe's butcher much less?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u217	I'm not going to make any statements about the agricultural sector. Mr Wassenberg and I are probably among the most agricultural eaters in this Chamber, but I am not going to make any statements about that. Moreover, Mr Wassenberg knows perfectly well that thinning the livestock does not mean transporting dead animals across the border. When we move the livestock we talk about it or here, or about the border breeding of those animals. The difference between them is climatologically not very attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u218	I would like to return to the dilemma outlined by Mrs Mulder and Mrs Dik-Faber. I understand that the minister is hunting barrels and thinks: when those solar panels are on land, they produce the most energy. But I think this is precisely an illustration of the complexity of the task and the dilemmas in it. Avebe produces potato starch and is able to make bioplastic from it. They are concerned that farmers are sacrificing their agricultural land for the production of solar energy, because it is more profitable for those farmers. You cannot deny these farmers that right in itself, but we must realise in terms of sustainability that the agricultural sector must produce not only food but also green raw materials in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u219	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u220	Does this not call for a much more coherent approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u221	There are all kinds of considerations to make. Obviously, Mr Moorlag appreciates bioplastics more than electricity. If I were to grow onions, which yield a few cents per kilo, he might have preferred sun PV as a yield again. Let's not make general choices here. The choices in the climate agreement and its spatial implications are not even clear yet. We cannot make statements here in the Chamber one evening about pastures that we have not specifically appointed at all. Let's not do that. Let's keep the choices open. I think it is clear that most Dutch people do not want to turn all agricultural land into blue solar panels, but to say here that this would be undesirable and that electricity generation would be inferior to any agricultural product or raw material, I simply do not think it is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u222	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u223	That's not what I'm aiming for. I want to say that things need to be handled in a coherent way. It is accompanied by huge flows of subsidies. We must therefore realise that the pleasure of distributing a subsidy is preceded by the suffering of taxation. It's just connected. Do you want food production and energy production to compete with each other? I am concerned that the complexity is recognised and that it is considered in conjunction. Is the Minister prepared to do that with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u224	Let us put it this way: to look closely in conjunction is exactly what is being done in the cross-sectoral context'space'. That is the purpose of such a cross-sector theme, to see how those spatial choices are made. And then there is the National Environment vision, in which these choices are made exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u225	Actually, I'd like to suggest that you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u226	For the moment, we are exporting more agricultural products than electricity. I'm trying to get through it fast. I think that the enforceability of the targets is an important point, because that is one of the other things in the energy agreement on which there is sometimes discontent. The impression is that the enforceability is insufficient. What should be enforced in what way, I cannot say now, because we have not yet started, but that it is somehow enforceable and that agreements must be kept, seems clear to me. We need to look at each other in what way we do that. In the end, of course, the Chamber has a look at that. Then I come to the energy agreement and the jobs. The impression is that if you make it with both wind on land and the 100 petajoule, the jobs will follow automatically, but there have recently been some downward corrections. These are not actual changes in expectations, but they are arithmetical corrections. But one should follow from the other. I do not want to go into CE Delft specifically, but the general point is well understood. Mr Moorlag has expressed concerns about these costs. If we look at investments, which we also partly recoup, over a period of 30 or 40 years, they are automatically high amounts. Let me give an example of Mr Moorlag. He's talking about 64 billion for the chemical industry. There is a part of it that is simply in electricity production, because in order to produce it in a sustainable way, investment must be made, as has always had to be invested in fossil electricity so far. After all, investments must be made if you want electricity. Of these investments, roughly 20 billion is in the industry itself. And then I get to 1.5% of sales if you smear that out in 30 years. Look, we shouldn't let investments scare us over a very large number of years or decades. Investment is not yet a cost. It is a manageable exercise if we behave neatly, if we find cost-effective routes and if we make that feasible with financial instruments that make it smeared. That's how we've always built our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u227	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u228	So let's not scare each other too much. The fact that it becomes a project that is aimed at people is, of course, the ultimate truth. That is sung in all keys here. That is something we must do when this agreement comes into force. I'm also willing to look at hydrogen with more than a lazy eye. Mr Kops speaks of a false contradiction. No, I can't calculate the cost of anything yet unknown. We're gonna see what's supposed to happen first. Then we'll ask the PBL what it costs. And then it is up to the Chamber to make statements about this in the role of the Chamber. But to say at the beginning of a trajectory what costs something if you haven't specified it, is crazy. But in the end, of course, the costs will be covered. In fact, I will try to make statements in the NEV 2018 about what that means for the energy bill. That's really just one of the parts. In the meantime, I have answered Mrs Sazias' question when we are going to discuss the follow-up to the netting regulation. We have spoken before about the closure of gas. I have made commitments on this, which I cannot, by the way, repeat very literally, but it is coming somewhere. She asks me if I am willing to take the lead to see together with all kinds of parties how new buildings can be built without gas. Well, this is exactly the core of that table in the climate agreement. That's what we're gonna do. That's what I'm in charge of. I answered Mrs Yeşilgöz's question on how the task groups work. The question of acceptance is on the agenda. I reassured her that it is indeed just the 49% and the tonne-hunt. I am enthusiastic about two things in her speech. First of all, these are the obstructive rules. Perhaps this should also be monitored by the climate council, as a sort of cross-sector thing. Those obstructive rules, we really need to look at them. I, too, am getting signals that parties want sustainability, but that they would run into rules. We must have an open eye for that, that must really be part of it, that must come from those tables. And that would also be something that this Chamber would then have to judge. Then she asked whether the government could also have a role to play in innovation. That is, of course, the case. In the case of deep geothermal energy, EBN has now explicitly been given that role, in order to further develop that role, in order to ensure that this does not have to be done by private parties in ten places, but that a real authority can be built in one place that can do so. In the case of hydrogen, this will have to be done in one way or another in the climate agreement. Mrs Yeşilgöz also mentions thorium, which is interesting. You can be in multiple fan clubs at once. I'm in building finance. As a Delft guy, among many other Delft guys, who are as blunt and harmless as I am, I am also in the thorium fan club. I do notice that there is little overlap between the two fan clubs. But I'm in both. There's a lot going on. The Reactor Institute Delft is investigating this. It is not part of the climate agreement, because it is a technology that will not play an important role until 2050. In all likelihood, that's not gonna work. By the way, fellow members of my fan club think it's gonna work. I'd be special for that. I hear groaning on my left, but I'm gonna ignore that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u229	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u230	I would be very much in favour of it, but it is not realistic to do it in the climate agreement. There is a fundamental research task here. This is also something that governments are allowed to interfere with. Hence my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u231	Thanks for the answer. I have a supplementary question on this. The use of thorium is one of these new technologies, but there are undoubtedly more to come up with. Can we at a later stage, perhaps with a letter from the Minister, give a more detailed account of what might be the driving force or what could be the facilitating role there? Can we, for example, contribute to research in a certain way? Then I'm not always talking about a bag of money, because this is about mega amounts and mega developments. But the idea is to get a little more feeling for these kinds of innovations, which still have to prove themselves, but which seem promising and to bring it together a little more: what is the vision, what is the approach and how do we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u232	This too seems to me to be an interesting result of such a climate agreement, because we have all kinds of developmental activities in all different stages. There are things that are more fundamental, like this one, but there are also things that you can scale up after demonstration projects and pilot projects. There are therefore many tasks in which governments, and this government in particular, have a role to play. Perhaps, if the climate agreement is there, we could provide insight into the innovation priorities and how the government plays a role in them. This should ideally be linked to the innovation agenda of the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u233	I'll be brief, but I have two more questions. The first concerns energy targets up to 2020. I'm getting signals that a number of provinces are not currently establishing land-based wind integration plans. Does the Minister recognize these signals? And if so, does he intend to maintain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u234	This could be one of those bottlenecks. I have the impression that it isn't, but let me check it out. I'll do that together with the check for the three months I promised earlier. It could also be a field where an Indian story goes round here and there, but Indian stories need to be destroyed. So I am grateful to Mr Jetten for presenting this story. I'll see if there's an Indian involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u235	That's great, because I think all these provinces want to, but they're also looking at each other a little bit at the moment. My second question concerns the following. I and I also think Mr Van der Lee said a few words about 49% and 55%. I myself quoted the letter, which says: "(...) to show what additional measures are possible to move towards 55%." Can the Minister be more specific about what is being asked at these climate tables? I really do not want us to have to conclude a new agreement in the Netherlands in three years' time in the European context, because it is not enough in this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u236	That question was asked partly on behalf of Mr Van der Lee, who no longer had any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u237	I think it's clear in the letter. We are assuming the indicative tonnes table to come at the end of March. That's where we'll send the net tons. If you think there's a 50% chance of this ton and a 50% chance of that ton, you don't have two tons, but you have one. We're taking into account the odds of success. So we are talking about net tonnes. We have to cater for both the 49 and the 55. That's what we should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u238	The Minister said that he made a commitment to the question about people who have to pay to get rid of the gas, but that he cannot repeat it. But I'm curious about it anyway. I hope he can dig into his memory for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u239	That's right, that was a little sloppy of me. I'll dig into what the promise was. The free gas closure has been discussed. That was not appropriate at the moment, but it had to be discussed at some other time. I just don't remember when. But I'll have them dig when that was, 'cause I took this off a little sloppy. Mrs Sazias is entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u240	Thank you. This was the Minister's answer. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u241	We will continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber and I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to table three motions, but not after complimenting the Minister for his commitment today and his constructive attitude. I assume that this indicative table of tonnes, which will be made in March, will also be sent to the Chamber. Then I have the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the House of Representatives should be well informed about the progress of the climate and energy agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in mid-June on the design of the climate tables, task groups and overall progress on the climate agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Sazias, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u243	Then I have a motion on the transparency of the calculation methods used. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the establishment of a successful climate agreement would benefit from transparency on the methods used to calculate both CO savings impacts and the allocation of these impacts to specific stakeholders;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the transparency of calculation methods used, in particular by the PBL, is as high as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-576]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u244	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas financial institutions have an enormous impact on the pace and direction of the necessary climate and energy transition through their investment portfolio;]] [[Whereas financial institutions are increasingly able and willing to take a leading role in portfolio policy;]] [[calls on the government to involve the financial sector even more actively in the climate agreement, including explicitly how to promote sustainable (self-) management of investment portfolios in a creative way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-577]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u245	Mr President, I have stayed exactly within the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u246	Yeah, neat. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. We can talk about it for hours, I think, but we will do so in all the forthcoming committee debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u248	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u249	Thank you for the promise that the Minister will see how we can involve the aviation sector and the maritime sector in the mobility table. I think that as a Chamber, we will make sure that it actually means something. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that we have talked extensively about strengthening the basis and working on it. We need to involve people in the conclusion of the agreement, and I have one motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the energy transition is not only a technical transition but primarily a social one;]] [[Whereas a multi-annual public campaign that informs people about what is happening, why it is happening and what it means to them is important, but at least as important to activate and enthuse people;]] [[believes that it will help if the public campaign for both children and adults gets a face with well-known Dutch people who can act as ambassador to the climate agreement;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a multi-annual campaign plan, with a major role for two social climate ambassadors to activate and enthuse the Dutch for the energy transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-578]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u250	Mr. Chairman. I would add that these ambassadors must be really appealing types and not all administrative and political bobos like those already sitting at the climate tables. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I am very pleased that the Minister has said very clearly that the tables are all given the task of working out both the 49% and the 55% scenario and of thinking through, and that we are going to continue to do so. But for that 55% we really need the support in Europe and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in his Europe vision, Prime Minister Rutte clearly identified the target of 55% CO reduction, with a leading group in 2030;]] [[whereas greater ambition in European climate policy requires rapid broad acceptance, as the Paris Agreements will be reviewed at EU level as early as 2019;]] [[calls on the government to launch a large-scale diplomatic offensive towards an EU target of 55% CO reduction by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-579]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of an integrated climate approach over a technocratic climate approach;]] [[calls on the Government to invite sufficient nature and environmental organisations to the sectoral tables to be negotiated on the national climate agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that negotiations for the national climate agreement are under way, achieving 49% CO reduction;]] [[noting that the establishment of targets through consensus between different parties with conflicting interests is always leading to low ambitions;]] [[noting that technological, scientific, economic and/or social developments in the long term allow for higher ambitions;]] [[noting that setting low long-term ambitions puts climate targets at risk;]] [[calls on the Government to periodically adapt and strengthen climate targets in the upcoming climate agreement if developments allow,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-580]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-581]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u252	And last but definitely not least. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that negotiations for the national climate agreement are under way, achieving 49% CO reduction;]] [[noting that the interests of the climate, of healthy ecosystems and thus the interests of ourselves and our children are at stake;]] [[Considering that these interests do not leave room for sacred houses and blind spots;]] [[calls on the government to allow livestock reduction to be an explicit part of the negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-582]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more energy cooperatives are starting up through the postcode rose, for example through solar projects on the roof of schools or churches;]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement is based on a separate energy co-operative scheme which makes it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects in their immediate vicinity;]] [[Whereas it is important to take time, together with energy cooperatives, for a new regime so that the current efforts of existing initiatives and energy suppliers are not frustrated;]] [[Considering that the evaluation of the postcode rose offers opportunities to remove bottlenecks in the postcode rose scheme in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly send to the Chamber the evaluation of the postcode rose scheme, to make proposals to improve the scheme in the short term and to consult ODE Decentral and energy suppliers in order to review the scheme in the long term in connection with the return subsidy for private individuals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a strong need to expand solar energy, but that many roofs from, among others, schools, SMEs and agricultural holdings remain unused;]] [[Considering the need for investment security to include schools and SMEs, but that the SDE+ has financial and administrative thresholds for small-scale projects and that parties with a small-scale consumer connection are not eligible for the SDE+;]] [[Whereas there are still obstacles to care structures, for example through the strict interpretation of "own risk and account";]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how the successor to the netting scheme could eventually become suitable for small-scale solar projects, in order to encourage schools, SMEs and agricultural businesses to install solar panels on the roof;]] [[calls on the government also to consult the solar sector in order to administratively simplify care structures through the leasing of solar panels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-583]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u254	I should like to thank the Minister very warmly for his careful response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u256	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I'll start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents and smaller businesses are not at the table in the current climate agreement;]] [[Whereas every resident and entrepreneur should be given the opportunity to make concrete suggestions that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[Whereas the involvement of residents and smaller businesses in the design of the climate agreement is also desirable in order to create social support;]] [[calls on the Government to give residents and smaller businesses the opportunity to make suggestions, for example through an Internet consultation, when designing the climate agreement, and to inform the Court of Justice of its way of working before 1 May,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Sazias and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u257	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas acceptance is essential in achieving the objectives of the Climate Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include social support as one of the frameworks of the Cabinet's commitment to the climate agreement and to develop ways of securing social support within the climate agreement plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Sazias and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u258	Of course, we are very happy with the commitment that there will be a green deal to deal more and better with residents of wind farms. That's really necessary. That is what we are waiting for and that is why we are not putting forward a motion on this point. We also welcome the Minister's commitment in the field of aviation. We explicitly asked for that. We are pleased that there are opportunities to build adaptively cleverly. There is also room for this in the budget that we have made available. Then I have one final question about the promising initiatives that need a go-moment before the summer, such as the school roof revolution, NERO and other projects. What's the Minister gonna do with that? Does he have some kind of pilot pot for that? I think I'm here with this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u259	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to tabling two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sustainability of industry is shaped by non-binding agreements;]] [[noting that the required CO reduction and sustainability in this sector is lagging behind;]] [[considers that it is precisely this sector that needs to accelerate its efforts to achieve sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to lay down binding measures for the sustainability of industry in the forthcoming climate and energy agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Sazias, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u261	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that green jobs are created but that they are new jobs;]] [[noting that jobs will disappear in the fossil sector;]] [[considers that workers will not flow one-on-one from the fossil sector to these new jobs;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a clear package of measures in the forthcoming climate and energy agreement aimed at:]] [[increased employment in the "green sector";]] [[the retraining and decent flow of workers in the fossil sector;]] [[focussed on research and education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-588]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u262	Then I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u263	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u264	Mr. Chairman. The optimism of the Minister appeals to me. I am also naturally optimistic, but I am sometimes a little suspicious for a professional reason. We should not underestimate the fact that we are dealing here with one of the most complex post-war tasks. It is incredibly complicated and social support is incredibly important. It is not possible for the Minister to say: we are all going to look at that and people, get on the train, we do not yet know what it will cost. To be honest, we don't know exactly what it's going to cost. However, the PvdA believes that in advance the comfort should be given to the population that the costs are distributed fairly and according to capacity. That's why there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that meeting the Paris climate goals is essential for a safe and clean future;]] [[whereas the public support for the climate and energy agreement is undermined if costs are not shared fairly;]] [[calls on the government to allow polluters to pay for a clean future in a new climate and energy agreement and to share the bill fairly in society on the basis of capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-589]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u265	The second motion, on the labour market. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that meeting the Paris climate goals is essential for a safe and clean future;]] [[noting that there are insufficient trained professionals to implement the objectives of the new climate and energy agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude agreements in the new climate and energy agreement to ensure that there is sufficient training and availability for the implementation of that agreement, specifically looking at retraining and retraining opportunities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-590]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u267	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. The answers were enlightening on the one hand and worrying on the other. The Minister specifically said that he does not yet know how future measures will affect households' energy bills: what are these measures going to cost? In doing so, the Minister actually acknowledges that a blank cheque is actually being issued. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate has repeatedly refused to provide insight into the overall cost of the energy transition and how it will fall on household energy bills;]] [[noting that a blank cheque is issued for the purposes of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the government, in each individual measure it takes in the context of the energy transition, to make clear the cost of this and how it will fall on the household energy account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-591]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u269	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. It's about the National Energy Exploratory. That was actually what this debate was about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Energy Exploratory does not address the affordability of the rising energy bill as a result of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the government to include the affordability of the rising energy account in the National Energy Exploratory, broken down by different composite households and different incomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-592]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u271	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legal gas connection obligation is to be abolished;]] [[whereas natural gas is a fossil fuel and the government stated in the Energy Agenda that Dutch households should no longer use natural gas from 2050;]] [[calls on the government to take the lead to bring together municipalities, energy suppliers, housing corporations and the Association Eigen Huis in order to identify what is concretely necessary to build all new buildings without gas connection as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy transition will inevitably entail high costs;]] [[Whereas not everyone has the financial means to incur the costs of transition;]] [[calls on the Government, in the climate agreement to be concluded, to use, where possible, a reasonable and proportionate distribution of the costs of the energy transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-593]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-594]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of a broad-based climate agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 49% by 2030;]] [[Whereas it is important for the success of this energy transition that companies and industries can contribute to this effectively and efficiently;]] [[Whereas the most effective and efficient climate solutions manifest themselves across the walls of individual organisations and sectors and businesses and industries should not be hindered by laws and regulations;]] [[calls on the government to add a cross-cutting theme to the development of the climate agreement, called "obstacle laws and regulations,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-595]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u274	Mr. Chairman. I have asked a lot of questions and the Minister has answered everyone in detail. Thank you very much for that. I should like to make two points. As a VVD, we have also made it clear that we think it is important that there is a balanced representation of the parties at the table, so that hopefully the outcome will also be balanced. From the VVD I would also like to say that we will then also appeal to everyone on the responsibilities and on the commitment. I myself do not have the experiences and scars of the previous energy agreement, but the non-committalness I hear in that connection is also, as far as we are concerned, void with the new agreement. If you make agreements as a sector, you're gonna stick to that as far as we're concerned. I am also very pleased that the Minister has said that there is also a clear focus on innovations, which still have to prove themselves but which we hear a great deal about and which we see. This concerns, for example, a pilot hydrogen, thorium research, geothermal energy and all kinds of other things. I can't wait to see what comes out of it. And maybe I can join the same fan club as the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u275	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. 21 motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u276	21 motions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u277	Yes, Minister, 21 motions. Do you need a suspension? Yeah? That's good. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 7:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u278	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u279	Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to go through the motions. The motion in part No. 575: "Near to inform." If I may be somewhat stretchy and in consultation opportunistic about what "mid-June" means, then I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Beckerman says there's not a year in it. That's a very smart one; very good! No, I will interpret the year well if I get back that I can be flexible about the word "medio." In the motion in part No. 576, also by Mr Van der Lee, co-signed by Beckerman, Moorlag and Sazias, are asked whether these effects are attributed to specific stakeholders. No, they won't. It is not about stakeholders, it is at most about measures or tables. So if it ends with "with which CO-saving effects are calculated," so the word "both" and everything after "become" can be removed, then I leave the motion to the Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her, because she's gonna assume something that can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u280	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u281	I'll adjust her accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u282	In the motion in part No. 577 calls on Mr Van der Lee to involve the financial sector even more actively. This is someone who gets a meal in a Chinese restaurant and immediately starts to sprinkle with ketjap, while he hasn't even tasted it yet. Mr Van der Lee has absolutely no idea how actively someone is involved. He needs to leave the ketjap on the table for a while. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 578 on climate ambassadors. As it stands, I think that is a sensible appeal. I'll leave that motion to judge Chamber. With regard to the motion in part No. 579 we can still philosophize about what is 'large scale' and 'diplomatic'. Most of what is diplomatic is not so large-scale; most of what is large-scale is not so diplomatic. But I leave all that for Mr Jetten and I leave this motion to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 580 is almost inadvisable, but therefore not to embrace. Mr Wassenberg asked the government to "invite sufficient natural and environmental organisations." Everyone always agrees on the word'sufficient', but we certainly do not agree on what'sufficient' means. So I must discourage this motion for Mr Wassenberg's protection, because otherwise I wrongly give him the idea that we are going to do so in accordance with his wishes. So, although this is a motion that you cannot oppose, I would like to advise her on this detour to protect Mr Wassenberg. The motion in part No. 581 requests "to adjust the period of time." Yeah, I read that newspaper article, too. No, the target is clear. That's 49%. Once there will be an adjustment, at a specified time, but we have not embraced the periodic adjustment as a strategy. Maybe we'll regret that, but then Mr Van der Lee will be right. The motion in part No. 582 on the reduction of livestock, I advise; that is not surprising. In the motion in part No. 583 requests Mrs Dik-Faber on the postcode rose scheme. I leave her request to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u283	Back up, back up, back up, back up, back up, back up, back up, back
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u284	Am I skipping one? I was at the motion in part no. 583, on the postcode rose scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u285	The motion in part No. 581.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u286	What about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u287	Judgement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u288	Dissuade. The motion in part No. 582 too. The motion in part No. 583 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 584 contains a call that is very complex, because this has to be discussed with, among other things, the Secretary of State for Finance. It's not easy. I get the call. I would suggest to Mrs Dik-Faber that we hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u289	That's okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u290	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (30196, No. 584). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u291	Thank you. The motion in part No. 585: "for example, to provide suggestions via an internet consultation." We have discussed this at length. As far as I'm concerned, this fits in. Judge Room, then. Then the motion to part No. 586 to explicitly include social support as one of the frameworks. This motion can only come from Mrs Mulder's hand. It does not have a monopoly in this area, but it does have a very strong support for it. But a frame? No, then she thinks too mechanically about frameworks. I can't do this. I don't know what exactly would be meant here. I agree with her that acceptance will be crucial, but I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 587 by Mrs Beckerman on binding measures for the sustainability of industry. How compelling it is and whether it's just for industry, I don't want to ride through it. It almost looks like some kind of antipathy against the industry. We are simply going down that path and are going to ensure that binding agreements are made equally, but I do not recommend this motion. I am asked for a clear package of measures in the motion for a resolution. 588, aimed at increasing employment, retraining, and research and education. I'd like to await the advice of the Economic and Social Committee. There will be an ESC opinion. That is what the previous government has asked for. There will also be a cabinet response. I would ask the authors to hold this motion until then, because I am now handing out a lot of blank cheques, while the ESC opinion is still to come. I mean, you're not asking for a SER advice for nothing. I respect that, and I need to think about it. That's what I do with the Cabinet. I therefore call for this motion to be retained, or else I must advise her against it, when we may then find out afterwards that there are sensible things in it. That is what I am considering to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u292	Mrs Beckerman has until Tuesday to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u293	We'll find out. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Moorlag on his excellent report. We've been talking about this for a long time. In this form, I dissuade the motion, not because we are against the word 'fair', but because everyone understands something else and I may otherwise spread an impression that is not correct. Then the motion to part No. 590. It is the same fate as the motion in part No. 588. I also see that Mrs Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee are signatories to both motions. I have the same story here, so I would like to ask her to consider this further and to give her the opportunity to hold this motion, and otherwise I must advise against it. Then motion to part No. 591 by Mr Kops. "Each individual measure" is included. That's complicated, because sometimes it's about packages. So this motion is unworkable and I must advise against it. The motion in part No. 592 on affordability or unaffordability. There's no way to determine it by the NEV. It can only determine the amount of the energy bill. I have made clear commitments on this and I am going to keep them. This motion, which in turn causes confusion, does not have to go over it. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 593, which asks the government to take the lead. It is simply described here that we need to organise a climate agreement for this. I don't know what that adds to that. "All new buildings" is another term. That goes with a neighborhood approach. I have to discourage the motion in this form, and of course we agree with each other that new buildings must first be as gasless as possible and later all of them. The motion in part No. 594 by Mrs Sazias and others demand a reasonable and proportionate distribution according to capacity. That is the same fate as what I have just done to Mr Moorlag. I advise against this motion. In the motion, the VVD asks for piece number. 595 for a cross-cutting issue, namely legislative and regulatory bottlenecks. I was just excited about the idea. I'll leave the motion to the Chamber. Then I have a few more questions that I would answer. I did not find the answer to Mrs Sazias' question, but she has now tabled a motion on it. So I didn't get anywhere in that. I would like to respond to Mr Jetten's very happy remarks. He was almost dancing that the aviation and the maritime sector were now part of the climate agreement. He knows that it concerns the Dutch, the national parts. I'd like to mark that here. I don't want to make him any less happy, but I want to mark it. Then there's Mrs. Dik-Faber's three months. There is probably a misunderstanding there. In three months' time the monitor will be here, but that does not mean that all the measures must have been taken because otherwise it will not be possible. It's just that we're in a hurry and we have to do everything we can. Mrs. Mulder asked if I had a pilot jar. Well, of course we do. There's the 300 million for every year. Soon the cabinet will decide how the first tranche of it will be distributed. Everything in it is in it, and everything that isn't in it isn't in it. We are going to divide the further instalments, knowing the outcome of the climate agreement. Depending on that, it can be allocated. Those are the jars that exist, but that does not mean that the projects mentioned by Mrs Mulder are immediately awarded. What is in the prices is up to the cabinet. It'll be in the Chamber soon. That's what I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u294	Brief question on a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u295	I had a very short question in my second term, namely whether the indicative tonnes table which will be available in March will also be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u296	Yes, I'll send the indicative barrel table to the Chamber. I think that's a good idea. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u297	I didn't file a motion about having to pay for shutting down gas. I would like to receive an answer, but that can also be done in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u298	We'll keep digging. Now I have treated Mrs Sazias unfairly again; twice at least! I'll look it up. We're on it. There's been a ruling on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u299	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-08-tweedekamer-11.u300	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the staff, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
