ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mr Bouali's questions on behalf of D66 to the Minister about the report that Trump has high levies on import steel. I call Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Madam President. D66 has often warned: protectionism. If you withdraw as a country behind the dikes and pretend to be alone in the world, then you're really fooling people and not just that. You also damage your economy, your employment and the image you have in the world. This applies to the trading country of the Netherlands, but that applies entirely to a large country such as the United States. Then the consequences for this kind of protectionism are even palpable and downright harmful worldwide. That becomes painfully clear now that Trump has announced that he wants to raise high rates on imports of non-American steel. This has major consequences, Madam President. Not only for China and Europe, which are already threatening countermeasures, but also for the Netherlands itself. Yesterday the fresh American ambassador was already visited by the Dutch steel industry. Don't do it, was the message. Don't do it. In the Netherlands a lot of steel is made for the American automotive and aircraft industry. Jobs are involved, and there is a great deal of revenue involved. The ambassador seems to have said that he will convey the concerns of the Dutch sector to President Trump. That's great, but it's a question of whether that helps. My question to the Minister is first of all: does she agree with D66 that protectionism, certainly of this caliber, really does not get us anywhere? Is the Minister also prepared to sit down with the American Ambassador himself to make it clear that these measures are in nobody's interest? And especially not in the interest of the Netherlands that, let us be clear, does not dump steel at all in America, as other countries seem to do. Madam President. These were my questions at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to Mr Bouali for his pertinent question. To name a few facts: we have, of course, taken note of President Trump's announcement as a cabinet. It is important to stress that the decision has not yet been taken. It's a decision-making decision. We have already taken a number of steps, multilaterally and bilaterally. At a high level of administration, there has been contact with our ambassador and a number of EU colleagues. Here too, there has already been contact with the Americans for the announcement just made by President Trump. I'm gonna talk to my American colleague Wilbur Ross myself. Of course, I also have contact with the American Ambassador Pete Hoekstra. It is important that EU trade ministers have already made a clear decision in Sofia last week on the Commission's proposals. That was one of the important issues discussed in the Trade Council last week, namely what to do in the event that America would adopt protectionist measures such as this one. As you know, Commissioner Malström, at the request of the Netherlands and with the support of wider EU Member States, has announced a number of measures should America actually take this decision. That is, of course, the issue at the WTO. We still want to stay away from safeguard measures, but we are going to look at what possible rhetorical measures will have to be taken. We are against protectionism. That's supported nationwidely. The Netherlands has advantages in fair free trade. We are also in favour of this within the Commission and at the WTO. We also think it is important to explain once again that the EU, and in this case the Netherlands, in the case of the steel sector, which is the wrong allies, may be punished, should America adopt these measures. Dumping is a shared problem. We may agree on some parts of the problem that President Trump is trying to appoint, but the proposed measure punishes precisely those who can be an ally in it. The wrongdoers are punished, in particular the Dutch steel industry and Tata in particular, so an escalation takes place in the form of measures and diplomatic steps, but escalating, because of course we also remain in dialogue with a very important ally, the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	I am very pleased with the Minister's answers. I am also pleased to hear that she is prepared to have strong talks with the American Ambassador...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The second possible consequence of this radical action is at least as frightening: the effects this protectionism can have on the world as a whole. Trump, with his America First, may be the most dangerous trade war in recent history. As far as D66 is concerned, therefore, we must keep our heads down already. As a trading nation, the Netherlands has nothing to do with a trade war. We owe our prosperity to free trade and an open economy. We must not go down to the level of the populist regions of President Trump, in which he puts the interests of his own country and his allies at risk, unthought-out and rücksichtslos. We can already see that the resistance within Trump's own party is growing and growing. So we shouldn't let ourselves be drawn out of the tent unnecessarily. In this context, how does the Minister assess the reaction of the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, who threatened almost immediately with all kinds of counter-measures? The Minister briefly mentioned this, but I would like to zoom out some more. Does the Minister agree with D66 that we, as Europe, should not be throwing unnecessary oil on the fire now, but should take well-considered steps to prevent a trade war? Does she want to pass that message on to Juncker and his people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think I just named the steps. They are specific and relate to the sector. The broader story of course calls for a buy-out from a broader multilateral system, including the US free trade system. If you look at the Applete Body and other WTO mechanisms, we are, of course, also working mainly through EU Commissioner Malmström and the whole of the EU to convey our message and concerns: protecting the free trade system, protecting the regulatory system that has been built so carefully, improving the WTO and, of course, careful dialogue with clear steps. Retelling is an option, but it always has to be calibrated again. I think I have explained what the Commissioner has now decided, with the support of the Netherlands. But like I said, we're still talking. Dialogue is very important. Within the American Republican Party, there are many voices expressing their concern and expressing their own opposition to the possible decision. We need to make sure that we can avoid a final decision. That's the first bet. And, of course, we must not inevitably suffer unnecessary damage to common interests and relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bouali, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	No, Madam President. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. You may sit down again. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Becker of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	What can the Minister's assessment mean for the Dutch business community? How does she involve a company like Tata Steel in her efforts? I get sounds from the Dutch business community that we should at least try to say an exception for the Netherlands as a country or otherwise, if that does not work, for specific products. Because there are 2 000 jobs at Tata Steel alone. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	As I said before, we first look at dialogue. I don't think it's appropriate to publicly display all the ideas we have now. We've already had contact with Tata at a high-level official level. Tata Steel has also approached a number of MPs and ourselves. That is also very good, because we need all the information that can help. We are acutely aware of what jobs may be at stake. That is, of course, a matter of great concern. We take this seriously. We are talking bilaterally and through the Commission at the highest level with the Americans to emphasise that the national security rule does not apply. It is wrongly applied in the argumentation. That's made public, even by myself. Secondly, we stress that the allies who want to work together against dumping and its effects, which also affect Europe, must fight them together, but we do not want to be the victim or the child of the account unintentionally. We can also argue for exceptions for Tata. Of course, there's a willingness to do that, but you have to see it in the range of conversations. We're still in phase one. We want to hang out with the Americans, the Republicans and others to ensure that that decision will not see the day at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	The second supplementary question, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u13	The VVD already asked questions about this in May 2017, when President Trump announced his investigation. In the meantime, it seems to be true that a trade war can unfold with effects for different sectors. It is too far for Question Time to ask for all these effects now. We have asked written questions about this. In the light of current developments, I would ask the Minister to do her best to answer them within a week or two, so that we in the Chamber could possibly have a more extensive debate on this with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u14	Not just my best; it will be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u15	This has been going on for a while now. For business, the most crucial is that there are uncertainties. A while ago the CDA asked questions about Bombardier, the Canadian aircraft builder with many European and Dutch suppliers. The American court has said that these import charges of 300% are not allowed. Now we have the next point, the steel levies. Of course, the Dutch Government can visit the ambassador and have coffee, but I do not think that is enough. The question to the Minister is: when are we going to get this bigger and discuss this seriously at WTO level or at another level with the Americans, so that we do not have such a problem with the Americans every week? This brings great uncertainty for business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u16	I would just like to correct the picture of diplomacy and international relations. That is not a cup of coffee with each other, but that is not the intention of Mr Amhaouch. I have a phone call with my American counterpart, Wilbur Ross. The American ambassador is the representative of his country here, but we play it much higher, including through Congress. European Commissioner Malmström has drawn a very tight, hard line. I agree with you: this is not a long-term issue, but a matter of short-term responses. I think that the line set by the Commission is very clear. We are, of course, also clearly looking at rhetoric. We are also looking at safeguard measures. They're parallel currents. For the Netherlands, the stakes are ultimately protection of Dutch jobs and Dutch sectors. However, within the WTO, we have a number of major problems in multilateral consultations with the Americans, because there is currently no consensus on the Applete Body, so to speak. We draw a common line within the EU and we fully support the European Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Amhaouch, just for clarity. This is the second supplementary question. If you do that, the group doesn't have... okay. Yes, I know how that goes: then you get into a fight in the group. Then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u18	Sharp questions from Mr Bouali. But I think that was only half, because America started last year by giving companies that export tax advantages. I believe that the WTO has condemned this. America hasn't taken any notice of that yet. If it is right, Europe has now begun to impose sanctions: starting with 5% and then 1% each month. How do you view these European Union measures? Do they not lead to the trade war that the minister wants to prevent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u19	No. What the European Union is doing in this case, and I shall return to your specific case at a moment's notice, is to start talking and announcing what will happen, but we are playing this through the WTO in the first instance. The EU, including the Netherlands, is playing it through the international rules of the trading game. This announcement of a possible decision, which has not yet been taken, will indeed be a first step towards a crisis in the international system and thus further strengthen the trends of protectionism. That's not what we're here for. Everyone's got damage from that. We, too, are an international trading country. The sanctions taken by the European Commission will undoubtedly have been taken within the framework of the WTO, but I need to be briefed on exactly which case you are referring to. If you could give me an example of the sector and the timetable, I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u20	There's no second term, but maybe at another time. If you have a case, Mr. Azarkan, you can just pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u21	I suggest that we discuss this extensively once, but I think it is going to be 1,600 products, starting next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you.
