ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u1	We will continue to deal with the legislative proposal 35000-XVII, Adoption of the budget statement of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation for 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the questions asked, the input and this opportunity to talk to you about foreign trade and development cooperation policy in a broad sense. Earlier, in October this year, I had a very good and useful conversation with your Chamber about the note "Investing in perspective. Good for the world, good for the Netherlands," which was published in July of this year. A number of months have passed and we are now fully engaged in the implementation and implementation of the policy. Today is the opportunity to discuss the first budget of BuHa-OS based on the new note. Before I go into the answers to the questions put, I would like to mention a few elements of the note itself, which is the guiding principle of the budget. The SDGs, signed by all Member States, are indeed the international framework for foreign trade and development cooperation policy. They are a continuation of the Millennium Development Goals. The major global issues at the moment, as many have recognised, namely poverty, climate change and human rights, are included in this agenda. You will not have missed the fact that the SDGs are an inclusive agenda that requires everyone's efforts, not only from governments but also from civil movements, civil society organisations, scientists and businesses. Both in the Netherlands and on a journey I discover and experience that Dutch entrepreneurs offer a huge opportunity to strengthen their position abroad. The SDGs are a nexus between the auxiliary branch and the trading branch of my portfolio. I am not bipolar in my performance, but I see a beautiful convergence, a coherence, for which the SDGs offer a solution in working with knowledge and technology, with a earning model for the Netherlands. The big issues of this time create a huge demand for Dutch knowledge and skills. But there are also huge opportunities and an assignment to accelerate positive change in many developing countries or emerging economies. Foreign trade and investment are very important for our economy. It strengthens the innovative capacity of the Netherlands, currently number 2 on the Global Innovation Index, and provides demonstrable and measurable prosperity and jobs. That is why, of course, I am fully committed to the earning capacity and earning power of our business, innovation, but also, of course, the role of SMEs, start-ups and scale-ups, as it is called, and of companies that want to provide smart solutions. As you know from the Trade Letter, which follows the Foreign Trade and OS note, we do so through economic diplomacy, by launching and pursuing missions in the Cabinet, by supporting the diplomatic posts and through the RVO for all entrepreneurs who want to start or continue to grow abroad and just want to grow with those so well-known internationally worn Sustainable Development Goals. It's not a question of whether we're gonna do anything, but what we're gonna do, where and with whom. That is why we have also formed the so-called SDG alliance in the Netherlands with renowned companies. These are the top sectors in the Netherlands that are committed to the SDGs. Another alliance is led by former Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende, and it's all companies and sectors that are connecting. Coordination remains incredibly important. That is, of course, even more relevant when we look at the impact of the Brexit on the world and especially on the Dutch economy and business. Another question is how best to deal with emerging protectionism at world level, which puts pressure on the trade system, the international agreements we have made in the WTO context. These are agreements that will ultimately benefit us enormously. A regulation of the international trading system to make it fair and inclusive has enormous benefits for everyone, but the pressure from protectionism brings with it a huge new threat. As you know, Prime Minister Rutte and I were allowed to hold talks in Washington earlier this year, but also in the WTO context, we continue to work for an effective, multilateral approach to these problems and at-risk moments. This is the earning side, Madam President, the economic side. But the prevention side is also mentioned in the note and is implemented in the budget. That is the deepening of the SDGs, because when we look at the world, this is a hugely important moment in our history. We need to work even more on prevention if we are to look at the statistics of the number of people fleeing from armed conflicts, the millions of people fleeing, including children, the internally displaced people, but also those who are still starving as a result of climate change or conflicts. That's true now. But if we look ten years ahead, several further developments will put an extra strain on the most vulnerable, poor and fragile countries. Climate change, for example, is a development, I refer to the recent IPCC report, which is combined with a huge increase in young people in the labour market and with high unemployment. These developments are, of course, cause for concern. This cabinet, like a number of previous cabinets, therefore opts for a structural approach to the root causes. The Netherlands wants to contribute to this. We are doing this with a long-term vision, but we are looking for results in the shorter term. It concerns both political adaptation and mitigation, a good analysis of the risks, but also the creation of opportunities. That is why the note is also called knowingly investing in perspective. In the note we have taken a number of choices: youth, education and work. This is the triangle that is being discussed at the World Bank, at the OECD, at the IMF, at all the renowned international institutions, and, of course, at the United Nations, where we ourselves are a Member State. The question then is how we can respond to these challenges in a smart, effective way, in a credible, inclusive way, and then implement them. That is why we have put extra emphasis on education, education and vocational education. Investing in education does not just mean an opportunity for the individual to develop himself. A society in its entirety benefits from that. Investing in education therefore means investing in society's agility and resilience. I would like to refer to the World Bank report on 2019 The changing nature of work, when it comes to the opportunities offered by ongoing technological developments. But we also need to look at how changes in the labour market will take place through the introduction of and rapid changes in the field of technology. This affects the competitiveness of the Netherlands, but also affects developing countries. Because low wages are not always a comparative advantage for many markets that still think they can benefit. The World Bank's report does not necessarily gloom us, but it does raise a number of questions: how we ourselves, as the Netherlands, deal with technology, but also how we can help countries and our own companies. Investment in human capital is therefore also the theme of the World Bank during this period. Madam President, one final point, as a conclusion to this introduction. It is about the budget, based of course on the ODA budget. The budgetary element of Foreign Trade is modest. The ODA budget is also modest if you look at the needs of the world, but it is a percentage, and of course it is most of the budget of Foreign Trade and OS. This cabinet invests again in development cooperation, also in the light of the ODA expenditure standard of 0.7% of gross national product. However, as described in my note, every possible additional follow-up step for OS is considered in relation to other policy priorities within the budgetary frameworks. This is a first reflection on Mr Lintmeijer's question. But ODA isn't the only answer. Actually, we've known that for years. Maybe we ourselves are a little guilty of inflating ODA as the only answer, in the last decades of development cooperation. The developing countries themselves are looking for the transition from aid to trade, preferably a combination of it. But ODA always remains the jewel in the crown of international cooperation. It is catalysing, it creates opportunities, but it is up to the government itself, where it can function, to levy taxes, prevent corruption, and demonstrate good, effective governance based on the rule of law. There, of course, it is failing in many countries. That is why we are working on this in broad alliances. We are deploying development cooperation where we consider it necessary, but the annual gap of EUR 2.5 billion is therefore called "from billions to trillions". This is also clearly stated in SDG 17. This concerns the interaction and coherence between the commitment of public authorities, civil society, businesses and the important role of economic growth. ODA is therefore a lever to mobilise other resources and modernise our commitment through innovation. Madam President, I would like to move on to a number of points or questions raised by the three previous speakers. It may not have been a direct question from Mrs Faber of the PVV, but she said that poverty is even worse than before. I assume that she believes that poverty has increased and that the numbers of people who are poorer are greater than ever. Now, in fact, there has been considerable progress in developing cooperation countries, not only thanks to official development aid. In 1990, there were 1,850 million extremely poor people in the world. Now it's less than 700 million. This improvement has been achieved not only through improvements in China, but also in dozens of other developing countries, such as Ghana or a country such as Rwanda, which wants to get rid of the aid relationship and only focus on trade relations. Great progress has also been made on social indicators in Sub-Saharan Africa. Life expectancy used to be, in 1960, 53 years. Now that's 72 years. This is a success. The biggest jumps are in poor countries. I'm doing a categorization of a few countries. Ethiopia: from 38 years in 1960 to 65 years in 2015. Niger: from 35 to 60 years. Through systematic vaccination campaigns thanks to help by the Netherlands, but also by the Gates Foundation, for example, infectious diseases such as measles and polio have been dramatically reduced. That's not the least, that Gate Foundation, Bill Gates is a billionaire who's bet his money well: his own money, and everything is measurable. We have also been able to achieve enormous successes in the fight against malaria, tuberculosis and HIV. Child mortality was also halved between 1990 and 2015. This is all a result of international cooperation with, among other things, the use of ODA. The greatest progress remains in sub-Saharan Africa, especially in the poorest families. The stats go on and on. There are plenty of sources to look at. Is there more work to be done? Of course. Is there much more to do? Of course. But now to say that everything has failed? No, that's scientifically unsubstantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u4	I have a brief question for the Minister. It warmly outlines the major successes achieved in the field of development cooperation in recent decades in reducing mortality and so on. I would also like to underline that, but it is late to mention the shadow side of it. These successes are relatively easy to achieve in relation to other problems. It's low-hanging fruit that gets picked quickly. The result is a rapidly growing population with many other problems, for example in the form of large migratory pressures. That story must be brought to the fore in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u5	Yes. I agree with you, but I will come back to the special points you have also mentioned. Those are questions. In Mrs Faber's speech, I have not been able to recognise a question. I wanted to do justice to her speaking time. I've heard a tirade, but I haven't been able to find a question. To be able to recognize something within the story, I have therefore highlighted a few facts that are always interesting to share. It is always selective, but it is an important element of investing in social capital and it is measurable. Then I'm going to continue with the questions and the interesting story that was shared by the representative of... Sorry, excuse me, I don't spend much time in this Chamber, Madam President. I forget the names sometimes. I believe it was Mr Overbeek's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u6	Yes. Present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u7	Again, excuse me. It's not every day I'm allowed to stand here. You made a fine speech. It was interesting and, of course, exciting for us. That always gives us a moment of reflection. To sum it up, the first point you made is that successful economies Germany, England, Japan and South Korea were pursuing a strategic industrial policy in which protection and state intervention are central. I do not know whether I would like to share that view by definition. We still believe that protectionist measures have led or could have led to counter-measures by other parties. In my view, a protectionist policy as a central element for a period of socio-economic growth in a country is no longer current policy. The countermeasures that are being taken at present, for example, among the greats such as the US and China, lead to enormous risks and also have major consequences, especially for developing countries. They bear the consequences in a kind of secondary layer. We believe that the consequences of protectionism are ultimately more negative for both workers and consumers, but in this case, I think that your position is particularly about workers' opportunities and how growth can be dealt with in a number of countries. We are therefore in favour of a multilateral solution and not protectionism. I also don't know if the growth path of a Germany or an England.... you went back to the English industrial revolution.. is relevant in the twenty-first century when we look at value chains, industrialization at another time and the opportunities that technology can offer to actually leapfrog, to jump over a particular development moment. So I can't agree with your analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u8	Mr. Overbeek. We do one interruption each time, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u9	I actually wanted to sit down, but the Minister is making it very difficult for me to sit down when she makes this statement, because that is exactly what is happening. That is exactly what the large developing countries, the successful developing countries, are doing now: leapfrogging. In doing so, they make use of foreign investment. Their large emerging multinationals are investing in the United States and in Europe in advanced technology sectors. Not to mention China once: our highly advanced steel industry has been bought up by Tata Steel, a multinational from India. That is the way of leap-frogging and that is what the West is fighting with a hand and a tooth. The Minister himself sent us correspondence on a proposal from Europe, to which the Netherlands subscribes, to screen foreign investment in Europe for its effects on national security. That is precisely the kind of protectionism that it says developing countries should not surrender to. I think it is an internally contradictory message that the Minister is giving us here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u10	Well, obviously, I don't. It would be sad if I were to conclude that now. I believe that the investment protection instrument referred to by Mr Overbeek is very consciously related to the security or safety factor of sensitive industries within the industry where we have legitimate concerns about takeover and end-use. A number of companies are now mentioned. When we talk about protectionism as an economic growth model for countries to join, I must say that the world economy is no longer operating in this way and those countries themselves do not want it. They're looking for a connection. They want to benefit from, for example, Everything but Arms, trade agreements with the EU. They want to be supported. The EU Africa Summit was about investing in Africa, indeed to counter the pressures of demographic change. Think of the rise of youth and lack of perspective. But it goes in a different way, in the sense that the question comes from the countries themselves. I think we should look very cleverly at how we can invest in education there, how we can help growth sectors there to come up and how we can give them access to the market. But with protectionism, we often keep the countries at a very low level of development, because they do not have the quality products to compete on international markets. Madam President. I shall continue with Mr Overbeek's second point. That may also go a little further on the previous theme. If I understand correctly, the argument was that the West wants to strengthen its own role by means of bilateral trade agreements. I think I have just argued that we are in favour of clear rules of the game for trade and investment and for handling and applying them. We see the WTO as the appropriate forum for this. The WTO must be reformed. It has lost effectiveness and credibility. Staying away or resisting various countries also does not make it easy for the organisation to function effectively or better. We still believe that the WTO should have the resolution body for this. The Applate Body, the dispute resolution body, should be able to function properly, for example. Trade agreements themselves must respect the WTO's rules of play, but we see value in concluding trade agreements. We are, of course, committed to sustainability, animal welfare and human rights. Then it is still a question of whether you want to make the EU only or whether you want to include an investment agreement in it, but the conclusion of treaties does not diminish any of the possible resistance to the other views people have on trade policy. I shall come back to the previous point made by Mr Overbeek. Another question from Mr Overbeek was whether I look at the consequences of the value chain perspective in the same way, and I think that we will come back to the same issue in a different way. I shall first say what I see and then perhaps Mr Overbeek can conclude whether it is the same or not. Our consideration is that companies must act in accordance with OECD principles and UN principles, which are very clear in this and that they must take responsibility for their role in the value chain. Violations of human rights and forced labour are abuses which must be prevented and addressed. At the beginning of the value chain, workers and farmers should also be entitled to a living wage or a living income and should receive it. In our cooperation with the ILO, we are committed to creating and promoting access to and the possibility of living wages in producing countries. We demand or expect companies to truly comply with the OECD guidelines and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as I just mentioned. These two are sometimes a point of weakness, as is often appointed by members of the House of Representatives. I have promised that I will engage actively in discussions with companies that are mentioned or are concerned that they are not actively committed to these principles. This is part of participation in trade missions and in international corporate social responsibility. However, companies themselves have a role to play in this. They must identify the risks and ensure that the right approach is followed and that there is a prevention agenda. We are also promoting compliance with the directives and principles through agreements. The effectiveness of these agreements will be evaluated in autumn 2019. There are many studies available in the meantime, but an integral evaluation is offered in accordance with the government agreement. I cannot yet make a commitment when this evaluation will be completed, because it will not start until the autumn. It will have to go through a number of agreements, some on process and others on content and results. Some agreements have already started. Madam President. Then there is a question from Mr Overbeek about our plans for UNIDO. In the first instance, the UN General Assembly will only vote on the Secretary-General's reform package in January. Then it is a question of looking at which funds and programmes or organisations, such as UNIDO, have a role and, if so, what that role will be. It is too early to include UNIDO at this stage of the budget. We always make a weighting based on our own policies. Then there is the question of whether I can make a commitment that we are going to investigate whether a restart of the Burkina Faso textile industry can be supported on a modern, sustainable basis. We do not have active cooperation with UNIDO in the textile sector. Mr Overbeek's question is, of course, whether I want to investigate it. I'll wait for our multi-annual strategy for Burkina Faso to see what we're gonna do. After that, we always see which channel fits best. We don't bet on a channel in advance, because that wouldn't be the most effective way. Madam President. I come to the last few questions from Mr Lintmeijer. He asked if the percentage of ODA for the poorest could not be raised further. The percentage referred to by Mr Lintmeijer is the percentage of Dutch GNI going to the least developed countries. In 2017, according to its own calculation, this was indeed 0.27% of Dutch GNI. In doing so, we reach the UN's agreement of at least 0.15% to 0.20% and even ignore it. But, as Mr Lintmeijer also knows, aid to the least developed countries is not the same as a percentage of aid going to the poorest. They often live, or nowadays with the growth of cities, in the middle-income countries. That is why, for example, we are still working in a country like Kenya, but we are also working in middle-income countries such as Lebanon and Jordan in the context of reception in the region. We also support internally displaced persons. On balance, most of the Dutch ODA goes to the poorest groups. That is, of course, our target group. There was also a question about the geographical shift in OS policy and reaching the poorest groups. As you know, we have chosen four focus regions characterised by a degree of instability: the Sahel, the Horn, the Middle East and North Africa. Within these focus regions, we focus on a number of countries. There are three categories, as explained in the letter: the broad SDG relationship in ten countries, an OS relationship with specific objectives, including in ten countries, and then there is a group of countries where a limited OS commitment contributes to the broader objectives of foreign policy, including security, stability and countering irregular migration. But in principle we always look at the poorest countries with a low human development score, according to the Human Development Index. Then there are three more questions. A question has been asked about the EU Trust Fund for Africa. As Mr Lintmeijer knows, it is a large fund. There's been a commitment of 4.1 billion. In the first instance, we in the Netherlands have always made the assessment that the fund has worked well. Part of it goes to economic development. Part of it goes to improving migration management, i.e. border controls and human policies, including at the border, in countries of transit. There is also an investment in good governance and conflict prevention, but also in the resilience of refugees and host communities. There's absolutely no ODA going to border surveillance. It is about border management and doing so in a correct way that is in line with the human rights agenda that we have. The Netherlands has committed itself to bilateral contributions to this fund for around EUR 26 million. The Netherlands has also given money to projects aimed at voluntary return and reintegration of stranded migrants or refugees. This comes partly from the budget for migration and development from the larger budget, but also from the Stability Fund, which is shared with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The fund has recently been evaluated. I think there are a number of lessons, including for the EU Member States, to talk to the Commission again. Then there was another question about the possible use of development cooperation in the reception of Venezuelan refugees in Colombia, Curaçao and Aruba. First of all, of course, I would like to say that Foreign Trade OS does not play a role in the kingdom areas. No ODA is used there because this is not in line with the definition. We have therefore supported the reception in Colombia for Venezuelan refugees. Migration policy and foreign detention are a matter of country. This means, as you know from your conversation with the Secretary of State of JenV, that Curaçao and Aruba are themselves responsible. The government policy is constantly examining how the Netherlands can provide aid and assistance, but this aid and assistance will not come from the Development Cooperation budget, as this is not in line with the definition of the application of ODA. Then there is one final question about the International Strategic Consultation. This is a public-private partnership aimed at positioning Dutch business abroad. It also works on market editing plans. The BuHa-OS note, which focuses on the SDG, is the starting point for this public-private commitment. The companies themselves didn't need any encouragement either. They already did it, but they have introduced a tightening up themselves. We look with them at the sustainability. But it's a consultation and not a procurement body. It also looks at regulation and whether companies comply with all international agreements on corporate social responsibility. I am talking about this in various gremia, bilaterally with companies, with other fora of business, such as VNO-NCW, and the existing Trade Council. I myself requested, even after consultation with the House of Representatives, that civil society also participate in the deliberations of the International Strategic Consultation, because it is relevant as regards the objectives in both our commitment to foreign trade and international cooperation using development cooperation funds. This is it for my part, Madam President. I hope I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u11	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I do that while we are political opponents, but let us remain somewhat courteous. I would like to mention the fight against poverty. I said in my first term that little progress has been made. I based that on facts, too. I am referring, for example, to the World Bank, which reports that poverty in Sub-Sahara has doubled between 1981 and 2010 from 205 million people to 414 million people. I really do not believe that this has been corrected in recent years by 200 million people. That's really not caught up, especially when we're looking at population growth. As a result of this huge population growth, gross domestic product per head is simply lagging behind, while Africa is already lagging behind. The African growth curve in terms of GDP per head has been just bizarrely low over the last 58 years. That's grown from $889 a year to $1,780 a year. If you compare that with Western countries, then there is just a lot left behind. And that's when Africa actually owns a wealth of raw materials. It doesn't end up with ordinary people. The ordinary people have absolutely no benefit from this, because of the enormous corruption that there is. And as long as that huge corruption stays in Africa, this whole exercise is pointless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u13	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her valiant attempt to answer my questions. Those were, of course, important rhetorical questions. My contribution was above all an ideology criticism of the underlying ideology, as it speaks to us in the strategic note and in other documents, and as the Minister reaffirmed it by referring to Ricardo's comparative cost theory. That's exactly what my criticism is about. Having said that, it is good that we can have that thought exchange here. I'm grateful for that. On two points, I have the observation that my question, whether it is misunderstood or not, is answered - and probably because it was well understood. On the first question, where we apparently have a difference of understanding, I was talking about the value chain. I gave the example of the iPhone. I showed that if developing countries follow the rules of the IMF and the World Bank and this minister and specialise in the production of the goods in which they have a comparative advantage, they have been condemned to specialise in the trough of the value chain: in the production chain where no or hardly meaningful value is created or added. This value is appropriated, perhaps not produced, but this requires a completely different discussion on both extremes: where research and development are concerned, and where marketing and financial services are concerned. We reserve these two sectors for ourselves, because we are setting huge thresholds for developing countries that really want to move forward through leapfrogging. I see in the Minister's response a confirmation of that point of mine. The final point is the questions that the Minister has not answered at all. Of course, that doesn't surprise me either, because I didn't expect her here to say, "Damn it, you're right; we're going to do something completely different. These were my questions about the exorbitant Dutch balance of payments surplus: 10% of GDP. It is politically irresponsible to continue that year in, but not for, years. There was also the related demand for the European Union's agricultural protection. The Minister is so opposed to protection. Then why don't we put an end to that very quickly? The developing countries are asking us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Overbeek. We have now come to the Minister's answer. Oh, Mr. Lintmeijer, excuse me. How can I be so sloppy? You're on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u16	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. But we're all in the mood for Christmas dinner, so let's be clear. I had planned to do a little more than 15 minutes second term, but for the sake of time I will limit that to the three minutes. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I am, of course, aware of these ODA rates, which are 0.27%, but I naturally base myself on the figures we get, among other things, through the Court of Auditors itself. It is good that you added to that with regard to the poorest countries versus the poorest recipients. It is also good that you mentioned the evaluation of the EU-Africa Fund. I'm very curious about that evaluation. I honestly do not know by heart whether everything has been sent to us, otherwise I would also like to receive it from the Minister. With regard to the Venezuelan refugees, I understand your point that the ODA funds are not spent within the Kingdom. I would like to draw attention, as in several places in this Chamber today, to the fact that there is a fundamental issue in this area within the borders of our own Kingdom, with our greatest neighbour there. We will continue this discussion in several places. My group believes that a number of structural improvements are really necessary. Then there is my final point. As a result of the imvo discussion, I do not want to define it entirely as system criticism. I have mentioned a number of examples of Dutch companies, too, which go wrong in their actions in development projects or in developing countries. I understand that the Minister says that she appeals to them where that happens, but the underlying point is that we are often in a situation where there is an uneven playing field, where it is almost inevitable that abuses arise which can then be very difficult to deal with. Perhaps the Minister's answer went all that way, but I asked whether we could not just look at the platforms where we meet, and such a public-private institution that you have created, such a platform is not just an incident. We should also be able to look at a number of imbalances in the way in which trade relations are established, so that the path towards abuses is actually too great. That is why we need to pay attention to these underlying issues as well. My invitation, for example to this public-private institution, to anchor it in the mission, remains. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Recoupled for a moment, without wanting to engage in a text-exegesis as far as the World Bank is concerned. I do not know which report Mrs Faber is referring to, but our entire note and budget is based on World Bank analyses and, of course, on indicators measured at an international level. And when it comes to the increase in poverty, nobody says that this is not the case. What we are saying is that poverty has declined across the board, so there have been successes. That was Mrs Faber's statement. In fact, that comes down to it, and that is what I often hear from the PVV in the House of Representatives that development cooperation is a waste of money, that we have to spend it in our own country, that results are not measurable, that it is actually all money tossing. Well, that's not proven - far from it. There are results, and I just showed them to you the other day. Is there a conflict, are there consequences of climate change or demographic growth, are there new problems in places? Yes, and that is precisely why we are committed to preventing all these crises, and we are committed to prevention and an approach. Can we take care of everything? No, and that's what the World Bank is about. The World Bank identifies two factors: investing in human capital as the opportunity to break out of poverty, despite all the structural factors that naturally play a different role and counter-play. But the World Bank remains a good source. The World Bank and the United Nations are working closely together, so that is very convenient. I am now looking at what Mr Overbeek himself described in part as 'rhetorical questions'. I don't know if I'm gonna have to answer that, because he gave it to me himself. A rhetorical question is always good; it poses a theorem. I think we do have a different view of the world. You speak of ideology. "Ideology" is always a rather heavy word. I look at the facts and think that at this time, in which everyone has committed themselves to the SDGs, it is still best that aid and trade go hand in hand. An increase in investment, in order to create a new economy right now. We can't make up history. Unfortunately, we cannot make up for everything that has caused colonialism, slave trade and all that, but we can look more clearly at what the countries are asking and want, and at what has been proven to be working. I think that's important. Then I would like to consult Mr Overbeek at another time. But in ideology it may be a different approach. Of course, this also concerns the balance of payments surplus. Yeah, I forgot. We differ on the harmfulness of the balance of payments surplus. We are also, of course, looking at the opportunities and capacity of the Netherlands, precisely on the basis of the growth in income, jobs and shared prosperity. This is good for most of the Dutch, including those in the Netherlands who are still at risk of being left behind. It also reflects the strength of our business, not the weakness of the consumer. I fully agree that we need to do more to promote fair trade and work towards a truly viable wage and income for the poorest families in developing countries. That is what we are doing by calling companies on their responsibility. I also agree with Mr Lintmeijer's suggestion that we can do something more towards companies, because there are, of course, concerns about the voluntary basis of participation in international corporate social responsibility, especially if you look at the voluntary nature of the OECD and UN directives. If we are talking about violations, incidents, then we really need to see how the policy can be strengthened. This is not a step towards legislation, it is simply a search for better application and compliance with the instruments that already exist. I say an active role in this, precisely because the field of power is unequal. Madam President. In this way, I believe that I have responded to the comments and answered the questions. Thanks to you and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u20	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-28.u21	We have now come to suspend the meeting. My script says that 15 minutes will be allocated to consultation of the political groups and that half an hour will then be allocated to voting. We can also do it this way, but you might think that we are all going to Christmas dinner now and that we are discussing what we are doing with the motions by group during Christmas dinner. Then we can come back for the votes. I note that we want to deal with the votes first. Okay, then I'll suspend the meeting for a maximum of ten minutes until 7:25. I think the votes can go pretty quickly.
