ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today, apart from many other tax laws, mainly about the 2019 Tax Plan of the Rutte III cabinet. It is a very complex package, in which we certainly have to look back on a period of heavy burdens and growing complexity of the whole structure under Rutte II. We must do so because the Dutch people have been suffering for years from a sharp fall in purchasing power. The PVV has brought this to the attention again and again, as in the latest General Financial Reviews. After all that acid, the common Dutchman would also like to taste the promised sweet, and not just the foreign fortune seekers and the multinationals. Especially in an economy which has been growing steadily for many years as a result of international developments, it is all the more surprising that ordinary citizens are still lagging behind. How can we do that if we go back into an economic valley, Henk and Ingrid wonder? The cabinet now comes up with a package of measures that it calls misleading burden-relieving measures; misleading because it is burden-reliefing compared to a baseline path previously established by this and the previous cabinet. On balance, this package plus the so-called basic path will lead to a burden increase of 100 million, according to the State Secretary himself, for the next year. De facto it is certainly more, at least according to the CPB, which amounts to 800 million. Here comes the unpredictability. Illustrative for this is, for example, the past year 2017. A plus of only 0.5% for a typical household, while the economy grew by 3.2%. At 46%, the purchasing power even decreased, according to the CBS, which also observed large differences between groups. This government is beating itself up and calling the lifting of previously imposed heavy burdens a relief. It's like the burger's on the rack. Left and right the government has loosened some screws, but others are also turned on at the same time. And at the end of the song, that burger is still screaming on the rack. In addition to the increase in charges, every year there is a more complex tax system which, in the end, has to affect tax morals. Small examples are increasingly dependent on the labour rebate and the general tax rebate. Then you can say that you only have two disks left, but de facto you are introducing new disks again. The so-called fiscal greening measures make it completely bizarre. The only one who will be green is the taxpayer: green of misery. As of 1 January 2019, consumers will pay three euro cents more tax per spent cubic metre of natural gas. As a result, an average household quickly loses around €50 more on the annual energy bill. Another €50 more will pay consumers on the levy Storage Renewable Energy, ODE, for both electricity and gas. In addition, the electricity producers already pay higher CO charges, which they also, of course, pass on. All this is served to the citizen with a VAT sauce over it. Tax on taxes. Together, about €300 for an average family. But this year, in the context of greening, the scheme for the bicycle made available by the case is supposedly being simplified. While billions are being thrown away to the migration industry, the cabinet has now considered the addition of the bicycle of the case. If you have a bicycle from the store now, you can use it in private, but you have to keep track of exactly how many kilometres you cycle and what benefit you get from it. You can subtract the cost. Instead of the current bizarre scheme to determine the private advantage of a made available bicycle of the business, we now have the flat-rate addition of bicycle of the business: 7%. The bike gets the same status as a lease car. If you have an electric bicycle of €2,000, then an annual addition of €140 applies. Based on an average marginal rate of 42%, this leads to a tax of €58 or €5 per month. The question is who invents such a bike addition, but this addition also shows the elitist thinking of this cabinet on the other hand. 'Cause what if you don't have an electric bike, but an electric car? For example, if you are such a left-elitist snob riding around in a Tesla, you do not pay a 7% add-on, but then you pay only 4% add-on. Although next year it will be capped at €50,000; it will still be a huge waste of money. In recent years, we have already spent EUR 6 billion on subsidising hybrid cars, which have not produced a gram of CO reduction. So 7% add up if you drive an electric bike and 4% add up if you drive an electric car. My group wonders whether the elitist thinking of this cabinet can be better illustrated? A question from my group in this connection is whether the Secretary of State knows other countries where a bicycle is taxed? Here again we see another missed opportunity. If those Tesla riders were simply to pay their taxes, then the American billionaire Elon Musk would get less money from the Netherlands, and at the same time Henk and Ingrid could finally get a tax cut, starting with 6.2% on their vehicle tax. But no, this cabinet does not opt for the ordinary Dutchman, but for subsidising the expensive toys of the left elite. And those Tesla's will get less CO2? No, no, no. There are perhaps people who think: The Netherlands is already full of windmills and solar cells, so the electricity from the Tesla rider might come from those windmills. Pertinent incorrect. 83% of electricity is still produced from coal and gas. Only 13% of electricity production is from renewable sources. And since that is currently the maximum and that creates an additional electricity demand for Tesla, we need to look at the marginal electricity production. It is produced 100% with coal and gas. So no gram of CO2 is produced less by subsidising an electric car, rather more, because you also have additional losses in the chain. Quite apart from the fact that my group is not awake at all from those CO2 stories, but you already knew that. Where does the Secretary of State think you can drive better, in a modern, clean diesel or in a Tesla, which runs on coal in the Netherlands and on lignite in Germany? Mr. Chairman. We come to the next tax subsidy scheme, a scheme that discriminates against Dutch people since 1964. I am talking about the unfair regime which, through the so-called 30% scheme, offers a considerable tax advantage, because 30% of their salary is unpaid. The scheme would one day be intended to bring specific expertise to the Netherlands. The investigation of research agency Dialogic and the reaction given by the Secretary of State in April this year show that this is completely obsolete. The majority of this tax subsidy goes to the so-called head office functions. My group cannot see the specific expertise of these head office functions at all. Moreover, this scheme is mainly used in the same category of head office functions in the salary negotiations. This means that the scheme completely misses its purpose, because in this way the tax advantage goes directly to the multinational, which is otherwise already being pampered. It is also interesting to note that the cabinet chooses to reject any form of specialization of the scheme, for example in order to limit the extreme advantage for very high incomes, because it would result in complexity or other undesirable effects. Thus, where the common Dutchman is dealing with a multidisk system in combination with a jungle of income-dependent tax discounts, which overlap, with different routes of up and down, which are once again being discussed every year, it is not negotiable to make the expat scheme special for the expat with a salary far above the beaming standard, because that would lead to complexity of the system. Mr. Chairman. I come to the VAT increase for the low rate. Of course, I have already mentioned this in the General Financial Reviews, but I do not want to miss a chance to indicate how bad this measure is. This VAT increase of up to 3 billion, I heard the Secretary of State at the General Financial Reviews say, is again detrimental to the purchasing power of Dutch families. In addition, it causes a deterioration in the competitive position of small businesses in the border region. €3 billion means €385 per family, where citizens have had to turn in for years: an unprecedented attack on the average family budget. And then I read in the newspaper last week that in the backrooms where the climate tables are, we are again thinking of a further increase in excise duty to pay for the ongoing climate hysteria. I come to the ATAD, the European directive against tax avoidance. It is well known that the PVV is abhorrent of European directives. Here again we see how it works. A directive from Brussels, made by foreign apparachiks, does not take any account of country-specific situations. This time it is in particular the housing corporations that are screwed up. Indeed, ATAD limits the interest deduction for many corporations, increasing the tax burden. And those housing corporations can barely build because of the green madness. For the so-called sustainability of three existing homes, they could have built one new home. But who, as always, are ultimately really screwed, are Henk and Ingrid, who either see the rent of a social home rise, if they have already acquired one, or see it happen that the tax burden is even less built. And that while there has been a huge shortage of social housing for years and 86% of what is being built goes to status holders. I have already indicated this in the General Financial Reviews. It is clear that we do not support this directive. Finally, my final topic is discs, tariffs, tax rebates and marginal income tax pressures. If you look at the introduction of the two-disk system, you can see that the rate for the lowest income groups remains almost the same and for the highest something drops. A small middle group pays the price. It's getting worse. If you look at the general tax discount, it will be higher, but also more quickly reduced, so much faster that a middle group will pay the price. If we look at the employment discount, it goes up and is also reduced more quickly. Once again, it's a middle group that pays the price. The middle group is not always between the exact same limits, but roughly at twice the mode you are permanently in the firing field. Then we have the accelerated limitation of the mortgage interest rate deduction. In 2019, the maximum rate of mortgage interest will be adjusted to 49%. It then drops in steps from three percentage points to 37,05% in 2023. The result is that the middle income will soon notice a reduction in the mortgage interest rate deduction. The marginal tax burden is also a bizarre line, more or less as a result. Between roughly €8,000 and €10,000 you are at 35%. Then it drops to 8% to shoot around €22,000 to €23,000 to 40%. The highest incomes are at 50% marginal pressure and, again, a large middle group is at a marginal pressure of about 55%. The middle groups are not getting off well, but the situation for the working poor has been worse for a long time, a group that has grown to several hundred thousand people under the Rutte II and III Cabinets. These are people who are affected by these bizarre fluctuations in the marginal income rate, people who are affected by the situation that they suddenly have to pay back hundreds of euros for supplements because their income goes a few euros across a border. This has nothing to do with a balanced, progressive income tax. Again a missed opportunity and wrong choices. My question is: how can this be the result if you have actually been tinkering and hitting yourself with a new two-disk fare? In conclusion, Mr President. The Netherlands is longing for relief. Time for a cabinet that has the support and will to reform and relieve taxes. It is clear that this is not going to work with Rutte III. Time for a new cabinet that pays attention to the ordinary Dutchman, a cabinet that can reform our tax system, because it does not waste our hard-earned tax money on climate hysteria, asylum industry, corrupt regimes in Africa and all kinds of other subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution to last month's financial considerations, I called on the cabinet to increase the rate of reform on acute socio-economic issues. I mentioned the ongoing issue of pensions, labour market problems and the overcrowded housing market. The government's legislative agenda on these issues is too limited. Well, that cannot be said of the government's fiscal drive and the Secretary of State: today we are discussing no less than nine tax legislation proposals in a wide range of areas. This drive for action is so intense that the Council of State warns that this will undermine the predictability of tax legislation and undermine the citizen's perspective. I ask the Secretary of State what lessons he learns from this criticism. The question is whether the Tax Administration can handle all this. A service that's been under enormous pressure for years. Mr. Chairman. What is the broader story behind all these tax plans? What is the underlying fiscal narrative to say once postmodern? I see three main lines and one dominant ideological tension. The first line is to make labour cheaper by moving from direct to indirect taxes, including the fiscal greening. The second main line is to strengthen the Netherlands as a European country where tax is good for existing and new companies and the third main line is to combat international tax avoidance. In the first paragraph, measures such as the introduction of a two-wheel system, the increase in the general tax rebate and an increase in the labour rebate are included. The increase in the reduced VAT rate provides the financial space for this. A series of fiscal greening measures is also being taken. I refer to environmental and energy investment deductions, car taxes, the shift of taxes on electricity to natural gas, the increase of waste taxes and the reduction of landlord's tax on the sustainability of rental homes. The second main line reduces corporate tax to 20.5% and the low corporate tax rate for SMEs to 15%. Employers' costs on labour are also reduced. In addition, the S&D reduction is intensified. Finally, the third main line concerns the implementation of the European anti-tax avoidance measure, ATAD1. These three main lines together should lead to a Netherlands where citizens are left with more money, where consumption is actually priced tax, the environment is taken seriously, businesses are not made tax-deprived and tax avoidance is no longer tolerated. The package provides a reduction of charges of up to €6 billion in 2021 and a structural effect of just over €4.5 billion compared to the baseline path. I underline the word "base path." Grosso modo improves most population groups in purchasing power, with all the ifs and buts that go with it. Mr. Chairman. My group is in favour of these guidelines. They also follow the previously discussed tax agenda of the Secretary of State. At the same time, however, we note that the simplification of the tax system, which is so much needed, with the exception of the introduction of the two-disk tariff, is of little priority. It is precisely now that we are getting ahead of ourselves economically that a review of the far too complex system is the right time. Why, I ask the Secretary of State, are we putting this forward again? My group wants to see more ambition here, even in an overcrowded fiscal agenda. This is also the time to name the ideological tension of this whole package of measures, namely those between parties who want to restore the principle of standing and those who are more committed to the instrumental direction of promoting participation in the labour market. The fact that this cabinet's fiscal package contains so many measures is likely to be indistinguishable from this tension. The introduction of the two-disk rate in relation to the principle of carrying capacity, the increase in the labour cost aimed at promoting participation in the labour market and the increase in the general tax rebate are, of course, linked to the support of purchasing power, especially at the lower end of the income building, with all the keys to up and down paths. Mr. Chairman. With this package of measures, we hope that four years of major political differences have been pacified, but it does not become much less complex. We understand that the Secretary of State wants to develop building blocks for a simpler tax system, at least in the long term. My group is hoping for a more robust and therefore less instrumentalistic income tax, more than is currently being done in accordance with the principle of so essential carrying capacity. Mr. Chairman. In this context, we must not forget that major fiscal interventions by this cabinet are still to be carried out in the present period. I refer to the interventions that will result from the far-reaching energy transition which will inevitably lead to further shift in energy taxation, to consequences for car taxes and to calls for more CO pricing than has been the case up to now. How is the Tax Administration prepared for the tax passage of this energy transition? In this context, my group also calls for a clear picture of the purchasing power effects of the energy transition and not just through the impact of inflation. Can that be promised? The tax greening measures in the 2019 Tax Plan are in themselves not impressive, although they all point in the right direction. Is this, as I ask the Secretary of State, because the great greening display still has to be made in the context of the energy transition? Mr. Chairman. In all of these considerations, it is good that the proposed abolition of the dividend tax does not go ahead. The foundation of the abolition was poor, the incomprehension in society great and Unilever's decision on the establishment of the headquarters undermined the intended effect. All this is without prejudice to the objective of abolition: a locational environment which is also fiscally attractive; without prejudice to its importance. How does the Secretary of State judge this fiscal attractiveness now the dust of the discussion on dividend taxation which has descended? I am talking not only about multinationals, but also about new companies that are considering setting up here, about start-ups and scale-ups. About companies that want to distinguish themselves by social entrepreneurship, through sustainability. Can our tax establishment regime cope with international competition? Where would the Secretary of State want to see tightening up? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of the establishment regime, I would like to ask a question about the expat regime, the so-called 30% regime. It is a tax exemption involving a lot of money, more than 800 million a year. My group can justify the reduction from eight to five years of this flat-rate allowance, now that provision is made for firmer transitional rights. The question is how the scheme works according to business type. Is it the larger companies, the multinationals, who benefit from the tax exemption for their expats, or do they also share in proportion with smaller and young companies, innovative start-ups and scale-ups, our SMEs? Can the Secretary of State paint a picture of that? The major high-tech companies will increasingly be subject to fiscal policy in the coming years. For example, we see a sneaky development in which megatech companies such as Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Alibaba market products that until recently were exclusively reserved for traditional service providers. They build their position into financial department stores that undermine the classic earning model of banks and financial institutions, for example. These Big-Tech companies have the number of customers, the digital infrastructure, the data, the software and the liquid resources to make the difference in financial services. How does the Secretary of State assess these developments from a fiscal point of view? Is further tax regulation necessary? And what is the Dutch line now a fast-to-be-implemented European digitals cannot count on the broad agreement of the Member States? How does he see the relationship between Big Tech and Big Tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u6	I listen with great interest, as often, to Mr Ester. He asks a question that sounds like rhetorical. I wonder what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u7	I asked some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u8	I'm referring to the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u9	Do you mean the European digitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u10	No, it was about the growth of the big international companies and their tax accommodation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u11	This is, of course, primarily a European issue, because the Netherlands cannot achieve very much on its own at the moment. I am disappointed that these European digitals were not able to count on the broad support that has been given. I'm really sorry about that. This is now being postponed for another x-number of years. National control powers are limited. In general, my party is somewhat critical of Europe, but this was a very good opportunity to make a tax difference. Again, I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u12	I thought I'd listen to that joyous fact. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u13	You're welcome. My last sentence was, I believe, a question to the Secretary of State. How does he see the relationship between Big Tech and Big Tax? I think that's such a lovely phrase that I'd like to repeat it. Can his tax administration handle the web-based economy, the digital platform economy at all? The Christian Union Group appreciates the modernisation of the Small Entrepreneurship Scheme, the KOR. SMEs benefit from administrative burden reduction and a turnover-related VAT exemption. It does justice to the greater diversity among small businesses. The question here is: is there a better view of the European derogation? My group welcomes the announcement of a more fiscally balanced treatment of equity and debt. From the perspective of financial sustainability, this is an important step. The intention is also related to the Earnings Stripping measure in the ATAD package. Can the Secretary of State give us some more text and explanation about its impact on our SMEs? Mr President, I move from business to the tax treatment of citizens. Last year, this House adopted a motion by my group with broad support, calling on the Cabinet to report annually on developments in marginal pressure in our country and on the policy envisaged to reduce this pressure. I look forward to the study next spring, with the main question of how the pain points in marginal pressure can be eliminated. At the same time, I ask the Secretary of State how this motion has been incorporated into the current Tax Plan 2019 and what developments he is aiming for in the next three years. For example, in that period we see the necessary turbulence in the marginal pressure of hiring single-earners as a result of the gradual phasing-out of the rent surcharge. Due to the flatter tariff structure, earners see light at the end of the dark fiscal tunnel. And it's about time, Mr. Chairman. It's about time. Increasing the phasing-out limit for couples in the child-related budget and increasing the care allowance for couples also contribute to this. The purchasing power development for one- and two-earters is therefore reasonably balanced in 2019. But there is still a lot of fiscal work to be done to structurally close the gap and at least to reduce it. My group's question is: what final objective does the Secretary of State envisage? Mr. Chairman. Volunteering is the cement of society. The social benefit is great for people who work for others. The Christian Union Group is therefore pleased that the tax-free allowance for volunteers is increasing. At the same time, we are asking the Secretary of State whether it is not reasonable simply to index these amounts. Does he want to consider this? This is an important social signal. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the third and last main line: combating tax avoidance. In this respect, the coalition agreement and the 2019 Tax Plan mark a break with the past. And that was necessary, too. The tolerated virus in our country led to no longer explainable tax excrements and international hoon and incomprehension. With the new policy, we roll back the tax runner for letterbox companies that do not add anything to our country's economic potential. The Christian Union Group strongly supports this. The Netherlands does not belong in the wrong international tax lists. It is significant, however, that the new position is mainly due to European directives. Anyway... Better late than never. My group does have a few brief questions about the plans. Letterbox companies are being addressed. But the substance requirements aren't really impressive. A physical office and a wage bill of over a tonne: for a little tax-handed multinational, that's not a real bump. How does the Secretary of State assess these requirements from the point of view of effectiveness? Is the Netherlands the only country that opts for its own combination of the A- and B-model? The ATAD Directives involve a great deal of international coordination. Can the Secretary of State also share here how his services have been prepared for this and how this international tax cooperation has been arranged? How is it foreseen that EU countries can learn from each other about the implementation of the ATAD Directives? It is good, Mr President, that there will finally be a withholding tax on interest and royalties. This judgment is independent of the fact that I, as one of the few within my party, am not a fan of U2. My group also welcomes the announced tightening up of the rule-making practice. There was a hint of backroom politics around that. How exactly is the anonymised public ruling agreement going to be poured into the barrel? I like to hear it. All in all, these new anti-tax avoidance measures constitute a trend break. The effectiveness depends on the professional rigging of the Tax Administration, but also on the sanctions policy. Can the Secretary of State go into more detail about his ability to enforce compliance and impose sanctions on companies that violate directives? How firm is he going to bet on this? Mr President, I shall conclude. The Christian Union Group supports the three main lines of the Tax Plan 2019. Citizens can expect a positive purchasing power effect, business gets more air and the Netherlands is finally going to take serious action in the fight against tax avoidance. Greening gets the attention it deserves. At the same time, it should be noted that the great battle has yet to take place: the smart and social use of our tax system to enable the radical energy transition. My group looks forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a comprehensive package today. For example, the 2019 Tax Plan package itself consists of seven legislative proposals. And there are also the Implementation ATAD 1 and the Fiscal measures national monuments. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the large number of measures. These range from combating international tax avoidance and tax evasion to reducing the burden on citizens through lower labour charges, from plans to stimulate the Dutch business environment to further greening of the tax system. And I would like to thank the Secretary of State for offering the measures in separate legislative proposals. My group is pleased that it respects the Hoekstra motion, adopted in this Chamber when dealing with the 2016 Tax Plan. After all, this motion calls on the government to allow the Senate to make a separate political final assessment of individual legislative proposals. Many of the measures we have before us can count on the support of my group. International tax avoidance and tax evasion must be combated. Greening should be encouraged as much as possible. And narrative structures used to avoid the recovery of tax debts must be combated. But the PvdA would have liked to see more, Mr. Chairman. The package before us has a huge number of buttons, from the introduction of the two-disk system to a large number of changes in tax rebates, from the tax measure to the reduction of base items to the increase of the reduced VAT rate. But isn't the machine itself in need of a thorough review, I ask the Secretary of State? The Van Dijkhuizen Commission made a wide range of recommendations for such a review in 2013. For example, the Committee recommends that a number of deductions be abolished, including the self-employed deduction. In addition, the Committee proposes that the care allowance, the rent allowance, the child benefit and the child-related budget be integrated into a single combined supplement. And she advises that the care allowance should go directly to health insurance companies to prevent fraud. My group would like to receive an appreciation from the Secretary of State for the relationship between the present package and the recommendations of the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. And I would like to hear from him what additional recommendations he intends to follow. According to the Van Dijkhuizen Commission, the levy in box 3 for savers and investors should be based on actual savings rates. The principle of the capital efficiency levy is a supposedly flat-rate return. This was and is under attack, partly because the actual return remains significantly below the flat-rate return. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what progress he is making in developing a system of capital efficiency tax based on real returns. It is still crazy that we do not tax real capital income in the Netherlands, as is common in almost all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u16	My group in this Chamber and our group across the street have also argued a number of times in favour of looking at real returns. Under the previous cabinet the tax on the flat-rate return has changed. And actually, whether you think it's fair or unfair, there's, of course, an element of progression in that. I would imagine that would appeal to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u17	It goes without saying that, under the previous cabinet, the flat-rate return was closer to the actual rate of return, but I would also embrace further steps, which I do not see the present cabinet taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u18	Are you thinking of other solutions for achieving a heavier tax? Left or right, the actual return can go up and down, but in a progressive sphere that is of course something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u19	What I am thinking of is taxing real wealth revenue, as is common in almost all countries. It's really crazy that we don't have that in the Netherlands yet. The committee-Rinnooy Kan did in the report Fixing means paying the recommendation to reform the local tax area. The previous cabinet then, at the request of the groups of D66 in the Second and First Chambers in particular, gave the building blocks for such a reform of the local tax area in a letter. It would then seem logical that a shift from state to municipal taxes would appear on the agenda of the current cabinet in general and the Secretary of State in particular. Maybe I missed it, but I can't find anything on that. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State what the latest developments are regarding a reform of the local tax area. Mr President, I would like to turn to some of the individual proposals put forward by the cabinet. In this case, the Law on withholding tax has been amended in the "Business Act." Much has already been changed about the withholding tax Act. That's why I'll be brief. We are pleased that the unfortunate plan to abolish the dividend tax is off the table. Abolition of the dividend tax is in many cases a gift to foreign governments, in one case to foreign shareholders. In fact, the abolition can also be counterproductive to the attractiveness of the Netherlands for foreign companies. In any case, the normal Dutchman the cabinet claims to stand up for has little or nothing to do with it, two Rabobank economists write. But what does that normal, ordinary Dutchman have than the rate reduction in corporation tax, I ask the Secretary of State. Of every euro earned, it only gets €0.73. The problem is that the normal Dutchman is not invited to the Catshuis, where the business community is a welcome guest of this cabinet. We have already referred in this house to the sharp analysis of this by Wimar Bolhuis. In his dissertation, he estimates that since 1986 the burden on labour and income has on average been 3.3 billion higher than promised in campaigns. At the same time, however, the burden on industry is limited. The deviations between election programmes and government agreement are even detrimental to economic growth. Now that the cabinet has finally moved on to the dividend tax, it insists that the tax on profits for companies should be reduced in order to improve the business environment. And so the international race to the bottom in the profit tax is aggressively driven by the Netherlands with lower rates. But for a good location climate it is at least as important that there are good schools in a country, that there is good health care and that it is safe on the street. In this context, it is quite shocking that it was initially foreseen that EUR 2.9 billion of promised public sector investment would not be made and that this amount has now risen to 3.7 billion. In short, the government's promises to invest heavily in the public sector are not going to be very successful, but companies will have their 4 billion by means of lower income taxes. How does the Secretary of State feel about under-spending on the public sector? Who in the cabinet will ensure that this is prevented? Also, between the initial estimate of tax revenue in the Millions Note and the final realised revenue, there is usually a significant difference, which in certain years amounts to more than EUR 10 billion. What is the Secretary of State doing to close this hole? According to a study by the Central Planning Bureau, the innovation box favours large existing companies and worsens the position of challengers. While costs are estimated at EUR 1.7 billion, the CPB believes that this is a subsidy for profitable companies with past innovations. What lessons does the Secretary of State draw from this? In any case, it is clear to the PvdA that there is no question of efficiency and a contribution to economic renewal. Mr. Chairman. The Rutte III cabinet prides itself on the fact that, after years of austerity and tax increases, the burden not only on businesses but also on citizens is reduced. In the words of the cabinet, everyone must feel the "in the wallet" that the Netherlands is out of the crisis. Where the cabinet claims that the new two-disk system leads to more than EUR 5 billion in burden relief for the citizen, my colleague in the House of Representatives calculated that in 2042 only 36 million of this will be left. In short, the structural effect of the new income tax is about €2 per person per year. NRC even calculates in the Factcheck that the structural impact of all measures is a burden increase of over €1.2 billion in 2042. On balance, the image is even more negative. And on balance, the picture for the vulnerable is extra negative. The PvdA wants people to be sure of fair taxes, but finds justice far to be sought. While the lowest incomes are at least improving, the top rate is reduced to below 50%. Tenants advance half of it compared to buyers. Benefit recipients are left behind in people with jobs. And people in the Disease Act even lose an average of €900 and in individual cases thousands of euros a year. The PvdA doesn't just think that the latter is unfair, it's really antisocial. And that while Shell does not pay a profit tax in the Netherlands, we know the lowest effective tax rate on capital and the tax privileged position of dgas remains unaffected. Pass-throughs of the various Millions notes show that in 2017 the lowest incomes improved more than higher incomes. This was achieved under the Rutte II cabinet. In 2018, the highest incomes have improved on the contrary. This was done during the formation meetings. For 2019, the lowest income group is expected to progress 1%, with middle and higher incomes at 1.6%. This was achieved under the Rutte III cabinet. My group does not consider the result to be very social. If the Secretary of State is to count on our support, it must be more social.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u20	I have a question about Mrs Sent's comment on Rutte II and low incomes. In 2016, I believe, I tabled a motion on marginal pressure, especially at low incomes, which was hugely high. Last year, this was confirmed by a motion by Mr Ester. Is it true that Rutte II has ensured that the tax burden on low incomes was indeed so low?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u21	I take this out of answering questions in the Lower House. The answer to those questions shows that the transfers of several Millions' notes in 2017 have improved the lowest incomes more than the higher incomes and that this is not the case precisely in 2018 and in 2019 as a result of the formation discussions and as a result of the present package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u22	I am very curious whether this will indeed be confirmed by the Secretary of State shortly. But I have one more question for Mrs Esther. Imagine...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u23	There she is again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mrs. Sent. Unfortunately, Mrs Esther is not present in the Chamber, Mrs Sent is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u25	I had always intended to address Esther-Mirjam Sent in the right way: Mrs. Sent. I have a question for Mrs. Sent. Does she agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that it is time not to use income tax to control purchasing power and the like? And that everyone has to work, so that we can get out of that pitfall for the lower incomes, which, after we get the figures, are still under a very heavy marginal pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u26	I agree with Mr Schalk that we sometimes go too far in micro-instrumentalism when it comes to taxation. I shall now come to that in my speaking time. So that might also be a reason to interrupt for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u27	Here comes more Ester. Go ahead, Mr. Ester!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. It's hard for me not to make jokes, but I swallow them. Let's talk about those things that were mentioned, about leveling. If I look closely at the figures, I can see that the gini coefficient decreases by 2.7% in relation to the basic path. I honestly do not remember that this has ever happened to such a degree. Linked to this is the fact that if you look at the figures around the marginal pressure, Mr Schalk also pointed out that there is an extreme leveling there in the coming period. If you look at the gross income around €15,000 and at the gross income around €50,000, three and a half times more, you can see that there is a net huge leveling. How do you indicate those two findings in relation to the core of your argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u29	The essence of my speech is based on answers formulated in response to questions in the House of Representatives. These answers show that the lowest income groups are the least advanced, the middle and high income groups the most. As far as the gini coefficient is concerned, it is very unfortunate that Mr Reuten is not taking part in the debate, because he can make very good methodological speeches on the limitations of the gini coefficient as a measure of income inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u30	But so can you and I. We need Mr Reuten for many things, but not for this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u31	But there are limits to the use of the gini coefficient as an adequate measure of income inequality. What the passing-through shows is that the lowest income groups are improving about 1%, the middle and high incomes 1.6%, and so it is not levelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr Ester, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u33	Sure. Of course, you should not use your criticism of that gini coefficient only if it is convenient; you should always use it. But the fact remains, if you look at the extreme marginal pressure, that this extreme leveling also stands out around those two income groups that are very elementary, €15,000 and €50,000, where there really is an extreme leveling stroke. That's from the same data from the same Secretary of State. So how do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u34	I don't see that leveling blow when the lowest incomes are making the least progress. I do not see this leveling blow when people in the Disease Act are given a gross measure of choice. I don't see that leveling blow as tenants make less progress than buyers. I'll be back to talk about that in a minute. Where was I? I think I'm gonna bring in the study of the Central Planning Bureau for a while. Did I already... ?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u35	I can tell you that. You would have stayed with "If the Secretary of State wishes to count on our support, then it should be more social." Then you end up in the extension of the leveling. To help you, I have your text in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u36	Oh there, yes: "then it has to be more social." Sure, I'm gonna repeat that one more time. If the Secretary of State is to count on our support, it must be more social. As a result of this de-levelling, my group is having great difficulty in talking to Mr Ester about the proposal that, by 2020, for new sickness benefit recipients without work, the ZW benefit should not be counted as an income which determines the level of the work cut. Can the Secretary of State explain to me again why he thinks that sick people should go backwards without work? With a view to de-levelling, the increase in the low VAT rate from 6% to 9% calls for additional attention. There is a risk that lower income groups will be hit relatively harder by this measure because they spend relatively more on goods and services that are taxed lower. In order to assess the impact on different income groups, an understanding of the spending patterns of individual households is required. These spending patterns can be found in the last usable CBS budget survey of 2004. This data is the basis of the most recent analysis of the CPB, which dates back to 2014. This study suggests that VAT is a regressive tax. In other words, as a percentage of disposable income, the effective VAT burden is lower for higher than for lower incomes. For my group, the CBS data are too outdated for an adequate assessment and the CPB study calls for an adjustment, because it analysed the abolition of the reduced rate by lowering the standard rate. That is not the issue at the moment, and so I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to map the impact of the present increase in VAT on different income groups, so that they can be taken into account in the consideration of the next Millions Note. Mr. Chairman. Our general concerns about micro-instrumentalism...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't fast enough. Let's get back to VAT. You're asking for a study. Are you really sure about the outcome? Or should I ask the other way around, do you really think it is irresponsible to do something about VAT without that study? Is that the port of your speech? Or is it actually more to want to know what the effects are for better insight, which, of course, no one can be against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u38	I think that it makes sense in all of these measures to know how the various groups are affected and to offer compensation where we think that is ideologically desirable. This compensation does not have to be that we reverse the VAT increase. It could also be in other areas. But at the moment there is no insight to get a good grip on how different income groups are affected by an increase in the low VAT rate. Our general concerns about micro-instrumentalism also apply to the greening measures contained in the present package. And here too, we fear that the weakest should bear the heavy burden. Citizens and businesses must feel that the bill for the climate transition is being fairly distributed, the PvdA believes. That is not the case now. Take the ODE tax on gas and electricity that is under discussion in this Chamber. Citizens and businesses do not make a proportionate contribution. After all, prices for households are 13 to 66 times higher than for some companies. And that while low income groups can easily be spared by an increase in energy tax refunds through the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u39	You can place that energy tax wherever you want, he will of course just end up with the consumer. So my question to Mrs Sent is whether she realizes that if you put more into the industry, more into the electricity producers, it will end up with the consumer. My question is whether she realizes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u40	What can then happen is an increase in the return to the energy tax via the energy bill. It's also leveling once to do it that way. The Netherlands Bank advocates a substantial tax on CO emissions. According to DNB's research, a tax of €50 per tonne of CO does not have a major impact on the Dutch economy. It can even lead to growth. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that one robust and effective CO levy is a good alternative? And how does he look at the position of tenants in energy saving measures? After all, they often have no influence on the sustainability of the housing, and corporations cannot possibly handle all housing in a short period of time. The idea that tax increases on natural gas will lead to substantial energy savings measures is therefore only partly true. As a result, a large proportion of tenants will have to pay extra tax for a longer period of time, while they themselves cannot influence the timing at which the landlord decides to take energy saving measures. Will the Secretary of State take responsibility for this? The proposal to abolish the bpm refund scheme for taxis and public transport from 1 January 2020 raises the question of calculating the expected environmental impact. And how does this environmental impact relate to the cost increase of the transport of care? Mr. Chairman. The relationship between the Law adjusting gambling tax for sports betting and the Remote Gambling Act seems confusing to my group. In my group's view, some of the issues contained in the first legislative proposal should be dealt with in the last legislative proposal. For example, the bill we are debating today stipulates that a promotional distance game of chance will not be regarded as a remote game of chance. But does not belong to such a provision in a law that deals with the regulation of distance gambling and not in a law on gambling tax, I ask the Secretary of State. The PvdA is in favour of providers of national sports betting becoming taxable, let there be no misunderstanding about that. But why doesn't the Secretary of State choose to tax the players as well? Mr. Chairman. My group can count on the support of replacing the tax deduction of expenditure on monuments with a subsidy scheme. In other words, we support the concept. However, in my group's view, the details of the subsidy scheme are not sufficiently clear. For example, applications are checked only on a broad basis, so that a quality test for a grant application is not included in the new system. How can the desired quality assurance be achieved in an ex post test? Surely the Minister can't take responsibility for this? Worse, the subsidy rate is adjusted downwards if the subsidy ceiling is exceeded. We understand this, of course, from the point of view of the grantor. However, from the point of view of the grant applicant, it is incomprehensible that an application is only partially accepted for budgetary reasons, while maintenance has already been carried out in the previous year. And does the Minister think that people will take on great financial obligations without clarity about the subsidy? Mr. Chairman. The tax avoidance measures in the present package can count on the warm support of the PvdA. We welcome the fact that debt financing in corporate taxation is made less attractive. However, in our opinion, the possibilities of exempting corporations from ATAD 1 have not been sufficiently explored. We consider that the impact on the development of the burden on housing corporations is unacceptable. The motion-Van Apeldoorn c.s. The tax burden on housing corporations has therefore been co-signed by us. We are concerned that the overall tax burden on housing corporations hampers the agreed investments in the new construction of social housing and the sustainability of existing social housing. As far as we are concerned, we need mitigation measures. Mr. Chairman. The present proposals focus on measures that are feasible for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u41	I would like to return to Mrs Sent's remarks on housing companies. In itself, it is clear that ATAD and the limitation of the interest deduction also affect the housing corporations significantly. However, is she not afraid of me that if you are going to argue for an exception, you will soon be in breach of European law? I would also like to know whether Mrs Sent sees the mitigating measures she is advocating in the fiscal sphere or in the non-fiscal sphere, because I think we are soon going to run into European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u42	I have a feeling that the cabinet has not made sufficient efforts to exempt the corporations from ATAD 1. If it turns out that this exception is not possible, if it is now a station that has passed, then there must be other mitigation measures if the consequences for sustainability and for the assignment of housing corporations are such that we consider them undesirable. My concerns lie in that field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u43	If I listen carefully, you really do not expect so much of this exception situation because we then run into European law. So it's about the softening. Is the PvdA Group therefore prepared to argue in favour, for example, of a different design of the landlord's tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u44	If these are mitigating measures to achieve the agreed investments in the new building of social housing and the sustainability of existing social housing, then these are measures that we will be looking forward to looking at. The present proposals focus on measures that are feasible for the Tax Administration while taking into account stacking risks, for example, we learned during the highly appreciated technical briefing by an impressive number of officials from the State Secretary's Ministry. But what about the feasibility of the citizens package before us, I ask the Secretary of State. The Scientific Council for Government Policy writes in its report "Knowing is not yet done" that people should not only know the law, but also be able to do it. A realistic picture of people learns that knowing does not always lead to doing, that do-power is limited, that it decreases due to stress or mental stress and that it occurs in the best circles. The government has embraced this realistic perspective and, in its letter of 29 June last, states that the government will examine in advance whether policies and regulations are effective for citizens. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State how this has been tested in the present package. Informateur Herman Tjeenk Willink refers in an annex of his final report to the British-French drama film I, Daniel Blake, in which a 59-year-old English furniture maker after a heart attack needs help from the government for the first time in his life, but gets caught up in the red tape. Tjeenk Willink mentions this film because according to him citizens in the Netherlands are also victims of rules, forms and a suffocating bureaucracy. In his opinion, that leads to great displeasure. Let me give you an example from the Secretary of State's portfolio. A single parent with a part-time job and two children has to do with 12 income elements, 18 different forms and 80 payment times per year. How does the Secretary of State judge the "doubtfulness" of this? Is the mental load kept low in this example? Is the cumulation of charges being countered? If not, what can we expect from the Secretary of State to improve the "sustainability" of tax legislation? I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u45	I would regret that, Mr President, and that is why I am still interrupting. Can Mrs Sent imagine that there is tension between the first part of her speech, concerning justice, income decline and serving the right groups for demand and dependence, and the last part of her speech? What we see a lot in legislation is increasing complexity, and that has a cause. This is often the reason why we are striving for refinement. Then this could be the result. I think there is also a balance between these two elements. Does Mrs. Ester agree with me? That's a joke, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mrs. Sent. Oh, it's a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u47	Well, I don't think it's funny at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u48	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u49	The first part of my speech was about the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. On the contrary, the Van Dijkhuizen Committee makes a large number of recommendations for merging deductions and for making payments in a different way, which means that the example I have put forward is no longer on the table. The beginning and the end of my speech are, therefore, in line with each other. I do agree that it is important to look at the efficiency and justice of the measures in all such measures. There will have to be a good balance. The Van Dijkhuizen Committee has made nice recommendations on this, but unfortunately the cabinet has not followed up on this in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u50	Like the previous cabinet, I note, but I will come back to this subject myself later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u51	But the previous cabinet didn't have this on the table at the formation. I'm rounding up. In the extensive package before us, an impressive number of buttons are turned. Still, it's disappointing. It is not fair, because the lowest incomes are the least advanced. Not to mention the grave disease law measure. It is not effective, because the introduction of the dual-disk system has a zero impact on employment. It's complicated, because micro-instrumentalism is thriving. And while turning the buttons, the promised revision of the "machine" itself is absent. Increases, income-related schemes and deductions all remain. The State Secretary's commitment to prepare the building blocks for system improvements for the next cabinet is for the PvdA "too little, too late." It is reprehensible for the cabinet to spend EUR 6.4 billion on public money without carrying out a fundamental tax reform. It's raining missed opportunities. And that is why we look forward with extra interest to the answers of the Secretary of State and Minister to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the first tax package of the Rutte III cabinet in this house. Spoke is of an impressive amount of tax measures in many areas with significant consequences for taxpayers. The legislative proposals now before our Chamber, nine in total, will apply from 2019 until 2023. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and also the officials in the Department of Finance for their continued commitment and commitment to the Tax Plan 2019 package (seven laws), the legislative proposal for the implementation of the first EU anti-tax avoidance directive, and the draft tax measure national monuments. The proposals include many and varied tax measures. Because I own and own a state-owned monumental farm, my colleague Jan Anthonie Bruijn will go into the tax measure for state monuments after me. I am shortening my speaking time for Mr Bruijn's contribution to today's tax debate. The Secretary of State sent his fiscal policy agenda to the House of Representatives on 23 February this year. That agenda is a further elaboration of the fiscal issues of the coalition agreement Trust in the future of 10 October 2017. The five priorities in the State Secretary's fiscal policy agenda are: reducing the burden on citizens by reducing the burden on labour; improving the business environment; a greening of the tax system; a firm approach to tax evasion and avoidance; improving the services provided by the Tax Administration. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have taken note of this list of measures. The list leads to many measures taken by the Secretary of State. In dealing with the legislative proposals, I had to make a choice because I have no room to discuss all the issues here. In particular, I would like to address the following three issues: the income policy of the cabinet for small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises; transitional arrangements in the various legislative proposals; instrumentalisation of tax legislation. The VVD Group in this Chamber always evaluates with the greatest attention the income policy of the cabinet for the middle income and the incomes of small and medium-sized enterprises. My group chairman, Annemarie Jorritsma, made this clear during the General Political Reviews in this Chamber on 30 October last: 'The VVD will monitor the fiscal position of middle income and small and medium-sized enterprises'. The VVD assumes a careful and social policy of the cabinet for the lowest income categories in society. The people with the top incomes also have their own responsibility for the social acceptability of their incomes. On balance, in the opinion of the VVD, middle income and SMEs should not be the child of the Dutch tax account. In the light of media reports in recent weeks when dealing with the tax package in the Lower House, my group asks the Secretary of State to reflect on the income improvement of the hard-working Dutch people with a middle income, particularly around the starting point of €68.507 of the highest rate disc. That starting point will be fixed from 2019 to 2024. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the interaction between the tariff reductions in income tax to 37,05% and the future deductibility at the rate of 37,05% of mortgage interest rates, gifts, entrepreneurs' deductions and the SME profit exemption. But now I see Mr Köhler standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u54	Yes, I was interested in reading your text, I must say. That's the downside if I get a text. Mr. Köhler. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u55	I can imagine, Mr. Chairman, that you would be curious to see what else will follow. So do I, but I had another question about Mr Van de Ven's comment on the development of that €68.000 individual income. He brought this in the context of the developments concerning middle incomes. What are the middle incomes in his definition? Where do they start and where do they end up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u56	As I said, we in the VVD believe that the government should ensure that there is a good income policy for the low-income groups and that those with top incomes should take into account the social views on those incomes. In between you can vary with what you see yourself as a top income or a middle income. It will depend on your political background and your own political anchors how you want to define a middle income. So there is always a certain bandwidth, up and down, around the amount of that €68.507, which comes out so pregnant. That amount is fixed for the years to come. In this respect, I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u57	I'll ask the question differently. Can the incomes in the highest income quartile, i.e. the highest 25% of income, still be included in the middle income in your approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u58	I think that's a bit of a difficult discussion. I know that Mr Köhler is an expert in the field of quartiles, but quartiles themselves are already a medium of a number of income increases. If I make a statement on this, I will be dealing with the quartile calculation and how it relates to it. That goes a little too far in this respect. I'm just saying that you can think differently individually about what is now or isn't a middle income. I am convinced that Mr Köhler has a different view on this. I will continue with the tax measures and transitional arrangements. The 2019 Tax Plan package leads to a number of tax facilities being abolished or reduced. These measures are marked by immediate entry. It seems that the cabinet chooses as a policy not to propose a transitional right in principle in the event of a change in tax facilities. Originally, the following legislative proposals were submitted without a transitional right: The increase from 2020 to 26.5% of the dividend tax for directors/major shareholders (DGA) in Box 2 and from 2021 to 26.9%. Reducing the maximum duration of the 30% scheme from eight to five years from 2019. Ongoing agreements, in particular for expatriates for which the 30% deduction scheme was agreed in 2011, would lapse despite the agreements made. The interest deduction for housing corporations, the limitation of the interest deduction scheme, will be brought under the new rules against the fight against international tax avoidance and tax evasion from 2019 onwards, also referred to as ATAD 1, while housing corporations, heavily funded by debt, in particular national loans. There is no international tax avoidance or evasion in this situation. The same applies to projects of public private cooperation (pps). New PPS projects as of 25 October 2018 will be covered by the proposals for the interest relief reduction from 2019. It was proposed to limit depreciation on real estate from 2019 onwards. Under this measure, the WZ floor value for the maximum depreciation on real estate in e.g. would be increased from 50% to 100%. As a result, the cheese farmer who drives his company in an e.g. can pay less on his business property and thus pay more tax. This limits his cash flow for new investments. In the meantime, transitional legislation has been proposed for a number of, not all, tax-aggravating proposals. I refer to the 30% regime for expatriates which led to disbelief abroad. For the depreciation up to 100% of the floor value of real estate, a transitional arrangement has been proposed which means that the e.g. can still write off on real estate that has been put into service up to three years before 2019. This transitional right leads to a somewhat longer depreciation period for newly acquired real estate and a lower maximisation of the soil value. In the case of housing corporations, the cabinet has decided, as a flanking measure, to provide structuralally EUR 100 million for the reduction of the rate of the landlord's tax in the context of the increased tax burden under the proposed reduction of interest rates. At the heart of the government's choice not to introduce a transitional law on tax-aggravating measures concerns the question of reliable government. The members of the VVD Group ask the government to reflect once again on the relationship between transitional law on the occasion of the introduction of new tax measures and the issue of reliable government. My final topic is the instrumentalisation of taxation. The Council of State notes in its further report to the 2019 Tax Plan that the principle of carrying capacity is under pressure. In the Council's view, the principle of capacity has been put under pressure in recent decades, partly under the influence of the policy choice to make taxation available to purposes other than the distribution of the tax burden, i.e. instrumentalisation. The Council gives an example of the reduction in working hours. The employment discount is originally a tax deduction for costs associated with the acquisition of income but is now used to promote the labour market. The VVD is based on the following generally recognised principles for taxation. These principles are neutrality, simplicity and recognizability. Neutrality of taxation implies that tax subjects should be taxed or exempted according to general standards. Simplicity and familiarity for the citizen of taxation are conditions for the tax to be seen as fair. The main objective of taxation is to provide the State with means, on the basis of the tax legislation in force, to carry out the public service tasks. The VVD considers that instrumentalisation of taxation, a secondary objective, is permissible provided that the stated primary objective and the secondary objective are not in conflict with each other. The pursuit of secondary objectives may affect the general principles of taxation for the VVD of neutrality, simplicity and recognizability. In this context of liberal principles, my group was surprised to learn of the measure to introduce a flat-rate addition of 7% of the bicycle in the case. At a market price of €1,000 from the bike we heard rather a price of €2,000, but we are a bit more modest at the VVD.The annual taxable benefit of 7% for the taxable employee is €70, i.e. €5,80 per month. Under the future rate of 37,05% this tax addition leads to a monthly tax of €2,16. My group takes the view that global warming and the government's environmental objectives require fiscal greening measures. The members of the VVD Group ask the government whether the proposed bicycle measure is desirable, taking into account the priority of greening the tax system. They also raise this question in particular in view of the need to simplify tax legislation. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. These members ask the government to generally reflect on the extent to which the tax system and the proposed tax measures are to be maintained when the Council of State finds that the principle of capacity is under pressure. The VVD Group sees that after the deep financial and economic crisis in the Netherlands, people in the Netherlands have regained confidence in the safe, stable and positive society that has been built by the people themselves in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u59	I have a question for Mr Van de Ven. I go back to instrumentalism; a long word, made even longer by Mrs Sent, namely micro-instrumentalism. Mr Van de Ven rightly points out that the tax system should be neutral, simple and recognisable. The Council of State is now saying that the system of distribution of income and increases leads to differences that cannot be explained properly by the differences in position between these groups. A wonderful sentence of the Council of State, which I have just quoted. Does Mr Van de Ven also agree with what I said to Mrs Sent that at some point injustice was created by the fact that income tax was actually used for political purposes, such as bringing all people to work, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr Schalk is a very good listener. I have indeed said that there is a problem here that we have to look at. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this. To immediately call out that this is unjust, I go a little far. I do not think we should take that view. I agree with Mr Schalk that the government's income policy and the instrumentalisation that is taking place there is certainly also a point of attention from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u61	I shall come back to this in a moment in my own speech. I shall now end with the questions to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u62	I would like to return to Mr Van de Ven's comment on the tax greening measures, which dealt extensively with the bicycle measure. Earlier in his speech, following his group chairman in the General Reviews, he said that it is important to look closely at the effects on the purchasing power of citizens and the effects on small and medium-sized enterprises. In this light, how does he look at the measure included in the tax greening in order to reverse the energy tax reduction? This brings a difference of €50. How does he see the balance between burdens on citizens and burdens on business?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u63	I thank Mr Binnema for his question. It addresses a specific aspect of which I do not have the details in mind at the moment. That's a little far-fetched for me. In my view, compensation is being offered for this austerity of lighting as described. I agree with Mr Binnema that the government should look at the main aspects of income policy. This also means that there must be a balanced income policy for greening measures. That's the balance of the cabinet. I pointed out that the VVD supports the fiscal greening measures. However, we are also asking for this package to be considered in particular in order to ensure that the package remains balanced in the future. Then I shall return to Mr Schalk's question a little bit. Instrumentisation must at some point have a limit to make taxation recognizable to the people of the country. They need to know what they're paying tax for. Madam President. I was talking about the Dutch who have themselves rebuilt that safe, stable and positive society in recent years. I have come to the end of my speech. The VVD notes that the government's commitment to tax measures in the 2019 Tax Package is aimed at strengthening the positive prospects that people have. The members of my group look forward with interest to the answer given by the Secretary of State to their questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Mart van de Ven changes himself as the owner and resident of a national monument which I am not to treat the National Monuments Tax Act in this house. I'll take over the stick from him. The VVD Group believes that preserving our cultural heritage in the broadest sense protects the identity of Dutch society and its citizens. If you drive through the Netherlands, you will notice how mills, historic sites, small and large monumental buildings, the dikes, ports give the Netherlands its own identity. We are proud of our Netherlands as we recognize the Netherlands with our cultural heritage. The preservation of this identity of the Netherlands with the support of state monuments in private possession is my group's commitment to this debate on the government's proposal to transform the existing tax deduction for owners into a subsidy scheme from 2019. Unlike the government's statement in the response, the VVD Group believes that managing, preserving and using all the Dutch heritage is not only a pleasure. The ownership, possession and use of a national monument is indeed also a burden. The owner or resident of a national monument is confronted with legal obligations that can be based on the moral obligation to pass on your national monument at any time in a good state of maintenance to a next generation. In view of these conservation obligations of a legal but also moral nature for private owners and owners of a state monument, it is necessary as a government to maintain an easily applicable regime in order to support conservation costs of private state monuments. The commitment of this debate to my group is not so much that the politically recognised financial compensation for state monuments in private possession can be transformed fiscally neutrally from a tax deduction to a subsidy scheme from 2019. This is not a debate on the process for us. For the VVD Group, the use of this bill or the ease of use is, under the pre-condition of enforceability, possible for the user of the existing tax deduction scheme, without damage to our cultural heritage, to be transformed into a subsidy scheme, for which the government has put forward three considerations as set out in the reply. At the heart of the issue is that the citizen who has to assess the financial consequences of his investment in the maintenance of his national monument will no longer be able to count on the tax deduction in the year of maintenance expenditure, subject, of course, to the condition that maintenance costs qualify as tax deductible costs. Under the proposed subsidy scheme, the State Monument owner can only submit a grant application in March or April, in the following year, with the submission of supporting documents and reports. The owner must then wait and see whether his investment in his national monument is eligible. I would ask the government once again to address the uncertainty that this entails for the owner. How does the government assess the ex post subsidy ratio with the legal certainty that residents and owners need, including as one of the general principles of good governance? Does the government see any possibility of doing something about this, such as offering the opportunity to apply for a grant in advance, which is not unusual in the case of grants? My group may have a motion for a resolution on this matter. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group is not convinced that the government's claim that the administrative burden of the application procedure of the State Monument Grant in private possession is comparable to that of the tax deduction is correct. These members provide for a viscous process in the proposed subsidy schemes. In doing so, the members fear a demotivation of the owner of a national monument in his or her decision to invest in the national monument in any year. Can the government justify why the administrative burden on citizens under the proposed subsidy scheme does not increase compared to that under the existing tax deduction scheme? The VVD Group asks the government whether, as an alternative to the legislative proposal, the enforcement and supervision by the Tax Administration of the current tax deduction for private government monuments could not be improved better, under the pre-condition of quality assurance by the Tax Administration of the maintenance work to be carried out. In the past, there was a central point of contact within the Tax Administration for assessing the tax deductibility of maintenance costs of state monuments, which had excellent expertise and handled requests from private individuals adequately and expeditiously. Can these activities, which now seem to be concentrated at OCW, not be carried out equally well by the Tax Administration on the basis of past experience? In doing so, the deduction of maintenance costs of private government monuments could be maintained at the marginal rate in accordance with the scheme for annuities. In future, this will be regular 37,05%. How does the government see this? Finally, my group has shown that there is great concern among the owners of monuments that they are getting worse in the new regime. What is the government's support for this legislative change among stakeholders? In the House of Representatives, the Geluk-Poortvliet motion was adopted, according to which the owners of national monuments using monuments should not deteriorate in the new regulation. Does the government consider this motion enforceable? Can the government promise that the total budget now available for the maintenance of monuments will also remain available? My group looks forward with interest to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u66	I listened with interest to Mr Bruijn's story. He mainly focuses on private owners, but the story is a little bigger than that. Numerous national monuments are in the possession of churches, synagogues and parishes. Last night, they urged us to make sure that this arrangement continues. I would like to quote from your statement that no one is going to go backwards. Does that also apply to the churches, parishes and synagogues? Under the scheme, this own contribution is reduced by 10%. Then I'm talking about the Sim scheme. This is extremely important for churches, parishes and synagogues, because they are now fully involved in the submission of applications, but they can't have that. How do you respond to that, if I may ask from the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you for the question. That is, of course, also a very relevant point for my group. That is why I also ask the government whether the Geluk-Poortvliet motion is considered enforceable. That motion states that owners of state monuments using the monument deduction do not deteriorate in the scheme. My group reads 'owners' in that motion in the broadest sense, and so it is not a matter of private owners, but of all owners, including legal persons other than individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u68	Thank you, that seems like a very clear answer. Churches, parishes and synagogues possessing national monuments are therefore expressly covered by your request that no one should go backwards? Do I hear you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u69	My group reads this motion in such a way that the owners are also referred to as those owners you mean. That is how my group reads this motion. I ask the government whether the motion is enforceable in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u70	In addition to Mr Ester's question, I have a question for Mr Bruijn. Before I ask that question, I say, looking at Mr Ester, that it is not 10% down. The proposal is that by means of this link, so the Sim scheme you are talking about, those churches, synagogues and parishes go from 50% to 60%. You mentioned a reduction, but that's an increase, isn't it? Then we agree. The question to Mr Bruijn is the following. I do find it interesting how he explains that motion. In the group of individuals who own a national monument there is also a group that makes use of the possibility offered by the legislator to have a fiscally transparent body. These are the owners of an NSW estate in particular. The legislator has always meant it for people who are in an undivided estate. That could be 15 to 50 people. What does that mean? This means that you have an e.g. who manages that estate to avoid all kinds of difficulties in the family. Taxally, they're looking through that. Tax means that the shareholders pro rata parte and the depository receipt holders partly own a national monument if there is a national monument on that land. This group is excluded from the subsidy scheme for individuals in the proposal. That group may participate in the Sim scheme, but then shifts behind in the queue. So she's getting worse. Do you expect me to understand you in such a way that you're making a plea for that group? I have also drawn attention to this in the written questions, but in fact I would like to hear whether you also think that this group should not go backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u71	We agree with the Geluk-Poortvliet motion that the owners of national monuments do not go backwards on balance, regardless of whether they move from one scheme to another or from the tax deduction scheme to a subsidy scheme. On balance, owners of national monuments do not go backwards, below the line. That's how we read this motion. We ask the government whether this motion is also enforceable in this sense. This includes the owners designated by Mr Ester. This also applies to the owners as indicated by you, regardless of which scheme they are covered by and whether they remain covered by the same scheme. That is, of course, an effect. This motion sees at the bottom of the line on all owners. That is how we read this motion. The question to the government is whether that is correct and whether the motion is enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you. Then I would very much like to join those questions to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u73	That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Madam President. There are moments when the confusion strikes, like the recent briefing on the nine legislative proposals in the Tax Plan package that are under discussion. On some subjects I blinked my eyes for a moment, for example when it was about players at sports games, at least, in my innocence I thought that was what this was about. That's when I abstained from commenting. It is well known that the SGP has little to do with all kinds of sports madness, especially when it comes to exorbitant amounts for people who are better with the ball than anyone else or who can ride a little harder against a mountain than anyone else. As far as I'm concerned, the tax wasn't allowed to print heavily enough, until it dawned on me that it wasn't about athletes, but about players, about gamblers who make bets around sports games. Take that business, I'd say. As far as I'm concerned, the marginal pressure can go up there. Why only 29% about the gakrevenues? After all, this gambling tax goes against the tax that the ordinary Dutchman has to pay, who earns his or her money with hard work. Even after the introduction of the two-disk system in 2021, you're going to pay 37,05% in the low rate and 49,5% in the high rate. By the way, those lowest incomes up to €20,000 will pay more tax in the coming years: 37,05% instead of 36,55%. That problem is, of course, solved by various measures and discounts, but if you match that with the marginal pressure tables we got through the written round, you come to the conclusion that this is a clean appearance. I remind the Secretary of State of the 2016 motion of my hand, which I mentioned earlier, and of a motion by Mr Ester from 2017. What do we see now? Actually, there's hardly any movement in it. Only if you go from €22,000 per year to €23,000 will we see a substantial improvement, but the marginal pressure is still 56%. After that it is around 90% and at the top even on the outlier of 167%. You can't explain that, can you? What is the State Secretary's assessment of this exorbitant tax burden? Does not the use of taxes as an incentive to work, work and work ultimately create a mismatch? Is there really nothing you can do about that? Something very strange is happening. On the one hand, the Dutch are pushed to work more and earn more, on the other hand, they are hard hit in the segment where earning is important to grow towards a modal income. Let's link it to the route to the two-disk system. Up to €20,000 you're going to pay more taxes than before, so the incentive is: get above that €20,000 income, because then you're going to pay less taxes. Next you get into what is now called the second disc from €20,000 to €33,000 and there the load goes down slightly according to the overview "parameters ingrowth path two disk system," but you hardly notice that, because you get caught tremendously there. On average, you will pay about €0.90 tax on every extra euro earned! Of course, you'll even have an extra €10,000 gross income of about €91. My question is: is this reasoning correct? If so, are they the wrong incentives? How do we get out of this impasse? Isn't the root cause that we actually stimulate with the principle of acceptance on an individual basis? I have already mentioned this with Mrs Sent and Mr Van de Ven also hinted in this direction. In fact, this runs counter to the other principles of the tax and supplement system, which are geared to household income, such as child-related budget, rent allowance and care allowance. A different starting point is used only in the case of direct taxation. This is now even criticised by the Central Planning Bureau. In the report One earners under pressure is put in place: "The difference in the tax burden for one and two earners has increased considerably; the question arises as to whether a further increase is desirable for the sake of uniformity and efficiency." Now that Mrs Van Engelshoven is here too, this is a wonderful time to ask her, as Minister for Social Affairs, whether she agrees with my group that it is high time to tackle the unequal treatment of one and two earners. I am afraid the Minister will not be able to answer this question today because she is here for another bill, but perhaps she can whisper the answers to the Secretary of State. Then we can follow and receive the opinion of the government on this point. The Council of State also draws attention to the fact that the system of distribution of income through taxes and surcharges leads to differences in disposable income which cannot be explained by the differences in position between this group. He even links that to the broad concept of prosperity, a theme widely shared in this Chamber. What is the State Secretary's opinion on that point? Is it right for the Council of State to make this link? If not, why not? If so, what does the government intend to do about this? Madam President. Following on from this point, I refer to the tables provided by the Ministry on marginal pressure. I just mentioned them. A first conclusion is that these tables are concealing another problem: the gap between one and two earners. The Secretary of State initially indicated that he could not provide tables for two-earners, but after some pressure, an overview emerged showing that it looks much more favourable for two-earners, especially for the least-earning partner. This is in line with the picture I have already outlined during the General Financial Reviews. Then I indicated that it seems that the gap between one and two earners is getting smaller. Mr Ester has just mentioned this. The purchasing power rates are more favourable for the single earner than for two-earers, but this purchasing power development is less favourable for the single earner. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, the percentage should be released on the income that households can still spend after paying taxes and contributions and receiving supplements. Then you've got a whole different story. It turns out that two-earners improve on purchasing power compared to one-earners. In other words, the gap is still not getting smaller but even deeper. Net progresses the two-earner more. Of course, we give him that much, but the increase in percentages gives that positive picture, while the reality is negative. Ergo, the gap between one and two earners is still widening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u76	I hear "two earners" all the time, but it's actually two one earners. That means you have twice an employment rate of two individuals. In other words, in my opinion, the single earner is not necessarily comparable to two single earners. What is Mr Schalk's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u77	Well, maybe it'll be a very semantic discussion. I'm just basing myself on the report issued by the Central Planning Bureau. It's called one earner under pressure. The position of two-earners and one-earners is very well compared. I assume they're choosing the right position for the two-earners, whether they're two single-earners or whatever. No matter how you turn it, everyone's there by now, I think, on the understanding that there's a huge difference in structure between two-earners and one-earners. I don't think I need to repeat that, but I'm just gonna do it just in case. We know that two earners who both earn €20,000, so twice €20,000, pay €2,000 tax over €40,000, while a earner who earns €40,000 pays something of €10,768, I say by heart; something in that spirit. That's five or six times as much. That's a given, no matter how you name the two- or one-earner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u78	I see a difference. Where there are two single-earners, that is the ceteris-paribus assumption, both perform the same amount of work, while the single-earner is half of that work. So you have an employment comparison. The one has 50% of the labor and those two single earners have 50 plus 50, so 100%. I don't quite see the equation yet. I think that in the past we have opted for individualisation of taxation. Then it is very difficult to compare the two-earner as defined with one-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u79	This approach is a little new to me, I must say. As if two earners had suddenly been approached in a completely different way than in the past years. The particular thing is that it is often not based on individualism but on the common household, on common affairs. We are talking about the issues I have just mentioned, such as health benefits and the reduction in working hours. They don't go towards that one person, that one earner or the individual part. That is precisely where the common income is taken into account. Madam President. We may just make things more complicated and I realize that this is a matter that keeps coming up again and again. It's like we're in some kind of impasse. Everyone understands that something has to be done. At least I understood that, including Mr. Van der Ven and Mrs. Sent. But it's a little locked. I noticed it in the General Political Reviews and in the General Financial Reviews. On the one hand, there is understanding. Of course, the coalition has also made agreements and is working on a certain route. I note that there is no structural change at the moment. Will the Secretary of State be able to take me on a route through which we can explore the future? Is he prepared to explore longer-term options to remove the pain points around marginal pressure and also around one- and two-earners? Such an exploration gives the current coalition room to walk its path and that route also does justice to the position of the First Chamber to reflect on government policy for now and for the future. Madam President, with regard to the fiscal greening measures 2019, a few brief points of interest. There are a few things that are going to be discussed here that are going to be of interest to the individual citizen. Take reducing the energy tax. I think that is a confusing text for ordinary citizens. It is a reduction in tax relief, so it becomes more expensive for consumers. Another point. By abolishing the bpm refund scheme, businesses and institutions dealing with contract group transport are affected by target transport. Is this realistic when it comes to target transport in the region, to transport people with disabilities, to transport the elderly or to transport children to school? What consequences can or will this have for student transport? A single question on the increase in VAT from 6% to 9%. Suppose an entrepreneur delivers goods or services in December but does not send the invoice until January. What is the rate at that time? What if the invoice is sent in time but the customer only pays in 2019? Of course there is also a question for the Minister of Education, because otherwise she would think: think of me too. Can the Minister of Education indicate how the Tax State Monuments Bill now assists in the religious heritage agenda recently signed by the Interkerelijk Contact In public affairs? Perhaps a little further on from the discussion that just took place. Madam President, I started my speech with confusion about the gamblers. I don't like to gamble, and I don't think the Secretary of State likes to gamble. But I do not like confusion either, which is why I hope that the Secretary of State will clarify the future of ordinary citizens who are prepared to pay taxes, but who do want to be treated fairly. I look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. Mr Binnema, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Fortunately, I am not in possession of a confusing first or last name, but we are going to see it, the rest of this debate. Madam President. My predecessor Marijke Vos said about a year ago in this place in the Tax Plan debate: money is just money, it's what you do with it. I am happy to endorse that, even if only because many of the questions and concerns she raised at the time, with the proposals we are discussing today, have not necessarily disappeared. In fact, in some cases they have only become more topical and pragmatizing. The core of GroenLinks' contribution to this debate today is the imbalance that we see between the extent to which the tax measures of this cabinet affect citizens or, on the contrary, benefit businesses. I will work on this by highlighting, in the light of the discussion we had in the General Financial and Political Reviews, the still moderate justification for the reduction of corporation tax and other than fiscal aspects that characterize the Dutch locational environment. And where it is intended to allow companies to pay their reasonable share by combating tax avoidance, I will ask a number of critical questions about how the Netherlands implements this European regulation. But, Mr President, I would like to begin with the fiscal greening measures of this cabinet. If I recall correctly, in response to questions from the Labour Party, the Secretary of State indicated that the two largest measures in terms of burden increase, 410 million for the reduction of the tax reduction on energy, indeed, Mr Schalk, which is complicated, and 200 million for the shift from electricity to gas, reach citizens for 92% and 54% respectively. And although not part of today's debate: renewable energy storage, too, remains a fifty-fifty division between citizens and business. What does that mean for the 'polluter pays' principle, which was also upheld by the cabinet? In the Lower House, GroenLinks-Kamerlid Bart Snels made the proposal to share the burden of greening more fairly. This is also part of the debate that has been taking place in recent weeks on climate justice, from left to right, in coalition and opposition. Last Sunday this was also discussed in Buitenhof, where CDA leader Buma was present. He also said that this should not be done at the expense of the citizen, but not at the expense of the business community. If I assume that the CDA still supports the climate goals, how will it achieve them if it is not at the expense of the citizen and not at the expense of business? At the General Political Reviews in this House, our group chairman tabled a motion asking the government to work out the measures needed to achieve the climate targets in such a way that, firstly, they lead to a proportionate burden-sharing of income for citizens and, secondly, to a proportionate burden-sharing of consumption between industrial consumers and citizens. The Prime Minister stated in his reply that the motion was "untimely" because of the talks at the climate tables in particular. However, he indicated that the motion, I quote: 'as far as we are concerned, it is also a point of attention when drawing up the climate agreement'. At that time, in the light of the advice given by the Prime Minister, we chose to hold the motion. We have been patient over the last few weeks and have seen when it will be timely. Mr. Chairman. For GroenLinks, this is the time to give concrete substance to the fair distribution between citizens and businesses. And we are calling on the government today to translate the principle of a polluter who pays and of a proportionate distribution into action, now that it says so. In concrete terms, we ask the government to send a novella to the House of Representatives, in which the tax reduction in 2019 will remain at the same level as in 2018 and not be reduced by the mentioned €51, with a proportional transfer of the burden to the large consumers in business, as was also discussed in the House of Representatives. This is an essential part of our group's assessment of the tax proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u82	You are referring to the debates in the House of Representatives, so I feel free to do so for a while, because of course this includes cover and I would like to avoid repeating the whole discussion that has taken place there. Are you going to talk about that? Are you asking for what did not succeed in the Lower House to be done here again? Or do you ask for something else, and in the context of coverage? Then I know what debate we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u83	My point is that since that debate on the Tax Plan in recent weeks, several parties have expressed their views on this desired proportional distribution between citizens and businesses, but I also note that the coverage proposed by GroenLinks at the time by that amendment has not been able to reach a majority. But we still support the principle that these 410 million should preferably not be paid by citizens but by business. I would therefore like to invite the Secretary of State to provide cover, with the principle that there is still a shift from citizens to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u84	It is not often that I mention the PVV colleague, but I do this morning. If you are looking for a balance between citizens and businesses, you should also ask yourself whether the burden you place on companies is not passed on to consumers. Mr Van Strien just debated that, and I thought that was a very sensible point. I do not agree with him on many points, but this is, of course, something to consider. Does this also play a part in the approach of GroenLinks in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u85	It is a remarkable observation, but it does not hurt to see D66 and PVV put forward similar arguments from time to time. I believe that this debate has also dealt with the fact that the burdens that are being transferred to business cannot be transferred one-on-one to the citizens. It can also stimulate innovation and further promote energy saving. It has certainly not been said that this is the way it works, even in terms of competition. I would like to refer to the reports of De Nederlandsche Bank and the CPB on this subject. On the contrary, it can be an incentive to start producing and undertaking in a different way, so it is not a fact that it is translated one-on-one to citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u86	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u87	Finally, Mr President. I'm glad you took that point, Mr. Binnema. That last one's right. It's not one-on-one, which is why we don't have an equal position. But I think it is a relevant point that was raised. I shall be speaking about this myself later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u89	I also have a question for Mr Binnema. This energy transition is a large-scale operation in the long term, with, of course, the cost component being a very important one and the passing on of the burden. I find it a little too easy to unilaterally shift the burden to the business sector when dealing with the Tax Plan 2019 without having access to the total cost of this transition in the longer term. Unless, of course, you already have that access. I would also like to take this opportunity, if I may, Mr President, to make another point. I happened to watch the same interview in Buitenhof. There, Mr Buma did not say on behalf of the CDA that no one should be charged any costs, but he warned about taking far too fast decisions, without understanding the facts and the real costs. He has also pointed out the major risks, and I would like to join with him if you place the burden on business unilaterally. Business is in an international competitive environment. I agree with your plea that it should be encouraged to innovate. But I do not agree with you that we can solve the problem of energy transition unilaterally as the Netherlands. We cannot close our eyes to the environment in which we operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u90	GroenLinks' plea will certainly not be to unilaterally reduce the costs or costs of climate change and the necessary measures to business. Don't read my plea like that. What matters to me is that we are currently seeing a imbalance between the burdens placed on citizens and those placed on business. In one part of Mr Van Rij's and Mr Buma's speeches last Sunday at Buitenhof we are extremely pleased. In order to maintain the support for the enormous task we face, it is necessary that the burden placed on the citizens is not too heavy, so that they can be carried in a good way. It is precisely from that perspective that we think that we should look closely at this: are these burdens not now disproportionate to citizens? The contribution that we can ask from industry to this energy transition must certainly be demanded, I think. We are not deaf to arguments about the possible effects that this may have on the international position of Dutch industry, but we know precisely that we are supported by CPB and DNB who indicate that there are opportunities here, which do not lead to such effects that we put business in an impossible position. This is also in line with the concerns we have about the retreating movements there, it seems somewhat like business at the climate tables, as though, despite all the reports and figures that tell us that we are not going to achieve those goals in this way, the urgency has still not got through. Both during the discussion on gas extraction and the financial considerations and the General Political Reviews, the government's answer to my questions was always: we do not want to disrupt the talks at the climate tables, but at the beginning of December we know more. In the meantime, at the beginning of December, the end of December. We do not want to be too pessimistic, but is it not time to take into account the same scenario for the climate agreement as for the pension agreement? In other words, what is the Cabinet's plan B when the revenues from the climate tables are disappointing to achieve the objectives we all support, and what fiscal measures are being considered? Please respond. Then I'll get to the locational climate. In the discussion on this subject, the new rate of profit tax is defended by reference to the average in Europe. The cabinet therefore does not recognise itself in the image of a race to the bottom, to which Mrs Sent referred. What you are not saying is that this average in the EU is already lower than the average in the OECD countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u91	By "you" you mean the chairman, or do you mean the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. President, excuse me. I mean the Secretary of State. What the Secretary of State does not say is that this average is already lower than the OECD average in the EU anyway, and that it is also strongly influenced by countries such as Bulgaria, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Lithuania and Romania, with rates of sometimes only 9% or 10%. Is it not much more logical to compare the Netherlands in this respect with countries that have a similar size and structure of the economy rather than with this abstract EU average? Does the Secretary of State not think it is likely that other countries that are still above the EU average will follow the Dutch example? After all, would it not be the case that factors such as quality of life, infrastructure and the level of training of workers are considered more important for the locational environment, as well as digitisation and opportunities for start-ups? Will the Secretary of State also comment on the IMF's recent visit to the Netherlands, namely that multinationals are not investing enough and that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular deserve extra support, for example through research and innovation? I agree with the questions of the Labour Party about the innovation box and the CPB's research on that. The SMEs that are already sitting here want to stay and not be lured to the Netherlands at lower rates: that seems to me to be an important focus. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the issue of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u93	A brief question for Mr Binnema. It seems as if he is creating a contradiction between multinationals and SMEs. Maybe I didn't. Maybe I didn't get that right. But do we not need them both very much and are there not very good examples in this country where multinationals create jobs, hire suppliers from SMEs, from family businesses? Just look at the Eindhoven region and see how successful that is. If we want to abolish the innovation box, we no longer have an ASML in Eindhoven. This will have an enormous impact on employment in Eindhoven, both for family businesses and for start-ups. Then we can throw that whole business model that's been so successful in the garbage pile for the past 20 years. So now I misunderstand that he's always looking for a contradiction? I hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u94	This was a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, you misunderstand that, I say to Mr Van Rij through the President. I did not mean to create a contradiction as if we were not seeing very good cooperation between SMEs and the multinationals. Firstly, I referred to the IMF, which notes that the investments of multinationals are lagging behind and that, in terms of research and innovation, more focus should be placed on SMEs. I am also always thinking of combining it with multinationals where that is possible. Secondly, the innovation box, which Mrs Sent just mentioned. I did not advocate abolishing it at all. I have just said that it does not meet the needs of SMEs when it comes to research and innovation. Where cross-pollination and cooperation are possible, very much. Where, as far as we are concerned, the accents are wrong, I have advocated a shift of emphasis. I wanted to go to the issue of tax avoidance. I would like to emphasise an important part of this, namely the so-called CFC measure to prevent profits from being transferred to subsidiaries located in countries with a low tax rate. In addition to implementing this rule through Model B, the government indicated that it would go further than necessary by partly applying Model A in the form of the CFC rule, giving the impression that the Netherlands is progressive compared to other EU countries in combating or preventing tax avoidance. Our question is whether the door is not open to tax avoidance. In a large part of the Member States of the European Union, the CFC measure is already applied at a higher percentage of general profit tax rates. Examples include Italy, 14%, and Denmark, 22%. The Netherlands applies this rule only if the percentage is significantly lower, i.e. the rate of 9% or less. Can the Secretary of State say more about the arguments for choosing this rate? Moreover, we see that some of the EU Member States apply no exception to that CFC measure to companies carrying out substantial economic activity where the Netherlands does. Mr Ester also referred to the Dutch substance requirements of €100,000 in labour costs for staff. Office spaces actually used for at least 24 months seem to be quite easy for larger CFCs. The government's consideration of applying fixed substance requirements is to avoid competitive disadvantage of CFCs vis-à-vis companies operating only in the home country and to make the measure enforceable for business and tax authorities. According to the Government, the concept of essential economic activity will be completed before the end of the calendar year. It is precisely because of the points I have just mentioned that it is important that this interpretation should be carried out as quickly as possible. When can we expect that? It is also important to know whether the contaminated income can be taxed entirely via Model B. In Model B, the profit to be attributed is according to the "at arms length" principle. Model A deals with specific categories of income. Fiscalists refer to the relationship between Article 13ab and Article 8b. If functions by which those infected benefits are obtained, namely not exercised in the Netherlands, there is virtually nothing to be taken into account for the purposes of Article 13ab under the "at arms length" principle according to Dutch standards. I'd like the Secretary of State's response. I still have a number of questions, comments and concerns about the State Monuments Tax Act. I fully endorse the comments made by Mr Bruijn on this subject. First of all, we have concerns about quality assurance and monitoring. On the one hand, because it appears to be linked to the amount of the maintenance activities and, on the other hand, because it seems to be mainly a matter of reviewing the plans and not of actual implementation. Secondly, we see that owners of green monuments can get in trouble because the budget is insufficient, while also giving priority to professional organisations and world heritage organisations. Finally, we ask you to clarify how a grant and a loan from the Restoration Fund can or cannot be combined, because they seem to be mutually exclusive at the moment. I would like more clarity on that. Madam President, in conclusion. My input has focused on the balance that we lack in these tax measures between the burden on citizens on the one hand and on business on the other. The most specific issue we raised in relation to the climatological measures, coupled with a specific request to submit a novella to reverse the reduction of this energy tax reduction. But that also applies to the choices made in the Business Act, with an unconvincing justification for the need in the context of the business environment. We look forward to replying to the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mr. Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-3.u97	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
