ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the Act introducing additional birth leave. And how appropriate: in popular terms it is already called "cradle." Welcome to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I see that there is a whole series of spokesmen with quite a lot of minutes of speaking time. In view of the clock, I would like to propose that the first term of office be completed before dinner break. Perhaps that is an encouragement for you to be brief and concise and also to keep your interruptions brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u2	First of all, Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Cradle! We often talk here in the Chamber about abstract subjects, about laws and regulations that an outsider often can't imagine, but fortunately today we are talking about a proposal in which a lot of people feel. I'm not a father yet. I hope to be one day and that seems like a very special moment, really a new phase in your life. For the first few days, I don't think you have any idea what's happening to you. And in the first few weeks you also have to learn a lot: changing diapers, giving bottles and keeping the household running. The latter alone, I find difficult enough already. When I think about it, it's kind of bizarre that as a society we expect to be able to say to partners after two days, you go back to work. That you have two days to get used to that new life and to get to know your child: it actually doesn't seem to me, to be honest. And this bill, the Law introducing extra birth leave, the Cradle, is therefore really a step forward as far as GroenLinks is concerned. By the way, compliments to the creator of that appropriate name! It offers partners the opportunity to spend longer with their newborn child, and it is to be commended that, after a discussion that has been going on for some time now, there is now a legislative proposal. But, of course, there is one thing, but as far as GroenLinks is concerned, this bill is far from going far enough. We are calling for a fully paid maternity leave of four weeks instead of that one week the cabinet is proposing. And we would like eight weeks of additional parental leave compared to the five included in this bill. I'd really like to explain why. My group fully supports the objective of this law but believes that it will only be achieved if everyone can take full paid leave for a longer period of time. We really believe that the present proposal, with only one week of full paid leave and the remaining 70%, will not allow everyone to take that supplementary leave. Unfortunately, as we expect, the objectives of the law will not be met for everyone. Longer leave ensures better bonding between parents and children, as stated in the Minister's explanatory statement. Several studies have shown that partners who take leave immediately after birth are later more involved in education and are therefore more satisfied with their lives. But two or five days' leave isn't gonna make that difference, I'm afraid. Another argument for extending leave is that it is good for the position of women in the labour market. It combats pregnancy discrimination because partners will also be out of the running for longer when their child is born. However, this will only be effective if the length of leave for women and their partners is as uniform as possible. The ESC has also argued for this before. With a week's leave, this difference is barely reduced and will therefore have less effect. Finally, the more balanced distribution of work and care tasks. Longer leave allows fathers to worry more after the birth of a child. Here too, I think: that does not happen in a week. In order to really break working and caring patterns, in other words to really ensure that not everything ends up on the mother's plate, fathers need at least four weeks' leave. We therefore find it extremely regrettable that out of the six-week leave in the current legislative proposal, five weeks have not been paid in full and that therefore the objectives of this law will not work out in such a way for everyone. I am very curious to see whether the Minister shares this conclusion. Does he also share the conclusion that this question is perhaps even more important, that this law is a step forward but not yet a final station, also given that it is still much better regulated in many European countries even after this law? Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight two specific groups which, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, do not benefit sufficiently from the current legislative proposal. Firstly, they are the parents who come under the social minimum if they take leave. In his reply, the Minister stated that the partner would have to take the leave or save for it himself. We do not think this is a good solution, because it is not possible or desirable for everyone. The Council of State and the UWV also point this out. I would once again ask the Minister to look for solutions for this particular group, so that everyone can really make use of the leave. The second group we ask for special attention for are thezzp'ers. The government has the starting point thatzzp'ers have to take leave of their own. We do not share that point of view as GroenLinks. Not allzzp'ers can afford to temporarily not work and have no income. It is precisely in the best interests of the child that both parents are home the first period after birth. It shouldn't matter if you're an employee or azzp'er. Does the Minister share this interest of the child? Does he also see that from this point of view it is desirable to arrange something forzzp'ers as well? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna end up with a compliment. It's a compliment for a company that I'm pretty sure we as GroenLinks haven't complimented at all over the past year. I honestly think that they are not very happy with us; but that is also the reverse. It's about ING, the bank. It seems to do good things too, because ING gives partners a month's leave when they have a child. Other major companies, such as Microsoft and Mastercard, also have wider leave arrangements. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether he intends to encourage such good examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr Heerma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Smeulders has a consistent story, as far as I can see, from the passing on of his own election programme. GroenLinks is very much in the direction of what the cabinet has now agreed, but opts for both types of leave, both parental leave and supplementary leave, a somewhat longer period. But it's very close to each other. The first part of my question is whether GroenLinks is proposing an amendment to amend the bill. Or can GroenLinks finally say: this step forward is really a step forward? The second is about the following. If I am not mistaken, GroenLinks, in his own election programme, also opts for the second part of the leave for the 70% that Mr Smeulders now seems to criticize in his contribution. Can he give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u6	It is true that our electoral programme is similar to the one that is now before us. The difference is that we have full paid leave for the first four weeks, which is paid by the government. This really means that everyone can participate and that employers' burdens do not increase. We have given serious thought to tabling an amendment. We have chosen not to do so, because we think this proposal is an important step in the right direction, but in particular because we expect it to be a bit of a political reality that we are not able to provide coverage, a majority of which says "that is a good proposal', which gives that amendment a serious chance of success. It is not for nothing that we ask the question: do you see this as a first step? Because you can assume that in our next election programme we will be writing about the same thing again. Or who knows, we'll go a little further and we'll be able to expand it further in the next coalition negotiations, hopefully back to the finish line. But we think it is an important first step and will support the cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you for this answer, which answers many of the questions I still had in connection with Mr Smeulder's first term. Finally. In Mr Smeulder's speech, there seemed to be criticism of the social minimum. But GroenLinks was also at that 70% of the daily wage in the previous election programme for the second part of the leave. Mr Smeulders says that we must expect something similar to this in a future GroenLinks election programme. No one can see in the future, but in his own plans GroenLinks also opts for a design in which it is 70%, just as in the cabinet's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's right. The difference is that we let the first four weeks be paid in full. At least that gives everyone four weeks to be with their child. The two months we stick to it are indeed against 70%. The election programme is extremely important, but if better proposals come along, we will always consider whether we can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you to Mr Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can deal with Mr Smeulders at once: take a good look at the amendment on item No. 10. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the Cradle. Compliments for the name of this law, very creative. With this law, partners are given the opportunity to spend more time with their child, in order to establish a closer relationship. It's about time. I give all fathers a good start with their child. This law is an important step in this direction. In addition, more parental leave promotes the participation of mothers in the labour market. Good thing the VVD also went over. The VVD was the only party that did not have this item in its accounts. Now, apparently, the party has become passionately in favour. If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it. But it could be even better. Hence the additional proposal of the SP. Five weeks' leave at 70% of wages is a big step forward, but there is a group of people for whom this could be an obstacle. Young parents, for example, who don't have that kind of income. According to the government, about 4,000 people are at risk of falling below the social minimum if they take this leave. After all, they only get 70%. Does the government recognise that the arrangement for this group is inadequate? How do you prevent it from becoming an elite measure? The SP doesn't want to rule out people, it wants to respond. We must not allow leave to apply only to the people who can afford it. Moreover, it is precisely for low-income people that the employment rate of the mother is important in order to achieve a higher standard of living. That is why I propose to make an exception for these people, and to give them 100% compensation. I have made an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u11	That leads to very enthusiastic reactions. Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u12	I always think it is right for amendments to be tabled. Compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u14	I was a little surprised at this amendment. 'Cause I think there's been a wide-ranging search to see if there's anything we can do for that group at the bottom. But I thought I'd take up the SP's election program. What does that prove to be? The cabinet proposal goes beyond the SP's election programme. Because in that was all the extra leave, including six weeks, at 70%, while in the cabinet proposal you still get paid your wages. Could Mr Jasper van Dijk acknowledge that the proposal we are debating today goes further, is more social than his electoral programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u15	I would say to Mr Van Weyenberg: count out your profits. I come up with a number of proposals that all build on the fact that the SP's excellent election programme that was created around 2016 was already in a different economic situation. We now have a new financial situation. I went on to build on that and I thought: in the progressive ideas of D66 there must be support for this. Thank you in advance!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u16	I would like to give Mr Van Dijk a moving insight, but the answer to the question was: yes, the cabinet proposal is more social and wider than the SP election programme. Thank you for that recognition. My second question is why I have once again congratulated him on his proposal today for not being included in the left-wing counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u17	That was not the case, because the authors of the counter-budget said: let's give Jasper the chance to make that proposal exclusively in the Cradle debate. Mr Van Weyenberg may be proud of this bill, but he should not make it bigger than it is. There are shortcomings, for example for those 4,000 people who are probably not going to benefit from it, for example thezzp'ers. You also know the ESC's proposal that you should do it 100%. So there are three shortcomings in this proposal. I'm hoping for D66's support to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Van Weyenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u19	Well, if we manage to make a proposal that is now there, I'm already very happy. 'Cause I've gone into politics to get things done, and you're gonna do that by participating. Finally, on the ESC proposal. That is now embraced by Mr Van Dijk. The essence of this proposal is that leave should be extended, but employers should not fail, a typical polder compromise. Does Mr Van Dijk and VNO-NCW believe that it is very bad that this cabinet is partly simply billing companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u20	No, I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. I think employers can also pay for it. In my now famous amendment to item No. 10 is also taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u21	I too have some questions about Mr Van Dijk's progressive insight, as he himself calls it. I have just questioned Mr Smeulders. We can only say that the way GroenLinks stands here is in line with their own program. Moreover, Mr Smeulders says that we do see this bill as a step forward and we will therefore support it. Mr Van Dijk has an electoral programme which goes much less far: 70% of wages immediately. The cabinet now has a proposal that goes further, but it stands here and says: that is a disgrace. I find that a bit strange, because the cabinet goes beyond the SP's plans. A tone like Mr Smeulders would be more appropriate. I am also curious about the suggestion that the amendment should be covered. Although the SP does not seem to cover the amendment and wants to deposit it with the cabinet, I believe in consultation with the grassroots, there is something like this called the childcare allowance as a form of cover. How would the SP cut the childcare allowance for this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u22	The first part of Mr Heerma's interruption was identical to Mr Van Weyenberg's interruption. Maybe you should consider a merger. I would also like to recommend something. If you're going to remind me of election programmes from back then, that's fine. But then you also have to have a stronger story yourself when it comes to the dividend tax, for example, isn't it? We have not been able to find it in any election programme, but you are proud to defend it now. Then cover. I would like to mention in the amendment to item No. 10 options indeed. I am inspired by Mr Pechtold's motion on public service broadcasting in which he instructs the government to seek cover. I found that very inspiring. So we're now ordering the government to take cover. This can be found, for example, in the low income benefit and, for example, in the childcare allowance, where less use is made of it. After all, we are extending the leave so that childcare can be taken away. I'll mention another option. In short, enough to choose from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u23	Again, there are opposition parties here who enter this debate with their election programme, assess the cabinet's proposal and say: we are not going to table an amendment, we see it as a good step forward. Those are parties that went further in their own election program. The SP doesn't go so far. It puts the whole leave at 70% and now says that 70% is not enough. I find that special and I think Mr Van Dijk should give more explanation than he is now explaining. But that last question, too. Mr Van Dijk suggests cover. This must be found in the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u24	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u25	It could be found. How does Mr Van Dijk see that? That suggestion is, I suppose, not just being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u26	I just explained that. It's the same question again. To be honest, I think it would be a good idea for the Green Left to embrace this bill. So do we. At the same time, I have heard good proposals from GroenLinks, but not an amendment. In any case, I hope that GroenLinks will support my amendment. Once again, I would like to mention a number of possible cover for my amendment. One can think of the childcare allowance if there is less use of childcare due to the extension of leave, or the low income advantage or the budget surplus. There's something to choose at the SP, I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. Another group which is not entitled to supplementary maternity leave are independent entrepreneurs. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. The six weeks extra birth leave for the partner is an important step, but it is a first step. Not only Slovenia and Finland have longer leave, but also Norway. There you can also make more choices as a mother or as a father. How does the government feel about the Norwegian system or about those other countries? How does the Minister view an extension of the current proposal, with 100% reimbursement for six weeks, as recommended by the ESC?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Children benefit most in the first three or four months of their lives from a quiet, safe and predictable environment in which they receive a lot of love. This time is just as important from a pedagogical perspective and according to researchers to secure attachment for partners as it is for the mother. In the first weeks, the basis for the attachment relationship with the parents is laid. That's how they attach to your scent and to the sound of your voice. How securely attached a child is, for the first time, express itself after about six to twelve months. That is why it is so important that after birth partners are also at home and that care tasks are fully distributed. Swedish women currently have the highest employment rate in the European Union, around 80% in 2017. The difference in income between men and women is 4.3%, which is a contrast with the 7% in the Netherlands. Sweden was the first country to introduce gender equality parental leave in the 1970s. Parents in Sweden together are entitled to 16 months' leave, mostly at 80% pay and 10 days' supplementary maternity leave. Three months of this leave are not interchangeable to encourage men to take their leave. The leave may also be taken on a spread basis. Mr. Chairman. Show more ambition than the Swedish model is almost impossible and yet this is about caring for a child in the very first phase of his or her life. The Party for Animals often points to the fact that we know the price of everything in the Netherlands, but of little real value. There is no price tag on the value of an equal distribution between caring parents. Everyone must feel that it is invaluable. This bill is a step in the right direction. With two days of paternity leave, we were one of the misfits of Europe. But where the cabinet had the opportunity to show real ambitious policies, it has left a lot behind. Where it could have gone through, it has once again chosen the polder model to satisfy everyone and everything. Real opportunities in the field of equal treatment leave it out. The Party for Animals has been arguing for three months for full parental leave. That is not interchangeable, but the same. So no unnecessarily complicated rules on top of existing rules. Parents want to know what they're up to in this crucial phase of their lives and their children's lives. The reasons for three months of paid parental leave are obvious. It ensures greater equality, both at home in the distribution of care tasks and in the labour market. It thus stimulates the employment rate and salary development of women. Swedish fathers on average use 28% of their leave and depending on how you calculate it, that is a leave of about two and a half to four and a half months. For mothers' salary development, it is better if the partner stays home for about the same time, as it turned out after introduction in Sweden. Three months' birth leave for both mother and partner enables parents to make informed choices for the future. The present ten to twelve weeks leave after childbirth is really necessary for recovery. They have to be separate from that. In addition, bringing a two-month-old child to the shelter is a very big step. When this moment is delayed longer, more women often opt for more hours of work. In this way, women's participation in the labour market is encouraged, because women, let alone women, want to work for themselves, because they want to work for themselves and not because economic growth still needs to grow. The altar of economic growth on which everything is sacrificed of real value, therefore, is not. Mr. Chairman. Instead of the five days in this bill, maternity leave is extended to the Animal Party by ten days, following the advice of the European Commission, and paid in full. The Animal Party advocates gender equality and gender-neutral birth leave. Apart from the maternity leave of the mother, which, once again, is really intended for the preparation and recovery after childbirth, not separate rules for mother and partner, but an equal distribution so as to be able to share care tasks equally. Also, homosexual couples and multi-parent families should not be treated differently than heterosexual couples. The Animal Party considers it unacceptable, as has already been said, inter alia, by the SP.... that the current bill does not take into account multi-parent families and, for example, families with two fathers, which means that not all parents are entitled to leave. The law makes that impossible right now. A child should not have more than two parents in the Netherlands, which means, among other things, that the leave scheme for these families is not properly regulated by the current legislative proposal. Last year, eight political parties, including Minister Koolmees' party, promised in the rainbow agreement to regulate multiparenthood quickly. It's been argued for years. Why is this still not settled? The Minister refers to investigations that have not yet been completed. How is it that these investigations are still ongoing when the law has to enter into force from 1 January 2019, I ask the Minister. Lhbti'ers must not suffer from this. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has quite rightly expressed concerns about the fact that the current bill brings about 4,000 people below the social minimum when taking birth leave at 70%. This is accepted by the Minister, because the leave, he says, can be taken over and because it would be a relatively small group. It's impossible to exist as far as we're concerned. Surely it cannot be the intention that extended birth leave should be taken only by well-earned families? The Animal Party is also concerned about the discriminatory effects and is concerned about whether the bill complies with the UN Children's Rights Convention. In practice, parents who fall below the minimum standard of living or even above will not take supplementary leave because they simply cannot miss the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u29	Their children will not be able to benefit, to the same extent as other children, from their parents' supplementary maternity leave. Does the Minister still want to reflect on that again? Is that fair in his eyes? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, this bill ignores the interests ofzzp'ers. That has been said before. The Party for Animals also considers this an important point. It's a bill for employees and employers. This is argued by the Minister as follows:zzp's can decide when they work and therefore they can decide when they want to take care of their child. The problem is that in practice self-employed people cannot afford to work temporarily and have no income at all. It would therefore be better if this scheme were also open to the self-employed. Finally, Mr President. The Animal Party wants to stress to the minister and the other spokesmen that the crucial first time after the birth and involvement of all parents must be done well at once. Parents do not get a second chance to give the child a safe and loving first start. It is the responsibility of the government to actually offer them that opportunity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I see you have another interruption from Mr De Jong. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u31	I've been listening to the whole argument. That ends with the story that the government has the responsibility to make the start that parents make with the newborn child possible. What does that say about all those parents who raised their children in all those years before this bill was here, about the connection they have with their child and how they try to raise their child in good order and try to do it with love in a normal way, and who also have a good connection with their child and have the idea that they're doing the right thing? Haven't these people done well all this time? Is that the signal that's being sent here? Why I want to make that point, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u32	But short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u33	Yes. Why I want to make this point, after an hour and a half, is that the image arises in this debate that, if you do not take leave, you cannot establish a good relationship with your child.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u34	I suggest that you make that point in your own contribution in a moment and that there is an answer from Mrs Van Kooten first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u35	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, those parents did a great job. If they have indeed managed to give a safe, loving first start: nothing but praise. But the Animal Party believes that the government has a responsibility to offer parents more opportunities to actually do so and not to hang and strangle, take up holidays and engage anyone who can engage in it to provide the care that is needed. We really need to make it possible, with the support of the public authorities, for parents to be able to divide care tasks among themselves and for multi-parent families to be eligible for such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u37	I'm also in favour of expanding from two to five days. Let me put that in front of you; it's really good. But now there's another picture coming up. What if as a parent you can arrange something with the family to let the woman work a little earlier or let the man get home a little faster? Now the image is generated that if parents have arranged that in other ways than via government, they do not make a good start. I want to distance myself from that. I hope that the further debate will allow more attention to be given to the legislative proposal, rather than to the upbringing or value judgments when parents raise their children without this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's obvious. You still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u39	It's absolutely not a value judgment. On the contrary, the Animal Party advocates a system in which parents are completely free to distribute the tasks as they deem necessary, without hanging and strangling and taking up free days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u40	Okay, thank you. I call Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, today is a beautiful day. It is a nice day because if this bill is adopted in this Chamber next week, the Netherlands will finally leave the somewhat embarrassing rearguard when it comes to partner leave at the birth of children. Because if you look at the list, that was definitely not a place to be proud of. In fact, in every European country it was much and much better regulated. We were under Portugal, Sweden, Denmark, Spain, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia, France and Finland, but also under Hungary, Poland, Ukraine and Bulgaria. All these countries were further in thinking about leave at the birth of a child, the most profound thing that can happen to you as both parents. We gave two days' leave in this country to the partner, the father or the co-mother. Two days. That's just not a good thing. We're gonna do something about that, and that makes me happy. It makes me happy because, where Minister Asscher tried earlier to take the step from two days fully paid to three days at 70%, this coalition agreement has managed to make it six weeks paid partner's leave, the first week of which also with full pay. And yes, I am in politics to take steps forward. I am often very happy, but if it is possible to make a leap of faith, then my satisfaction increases. And no, of course it's not perfect yet. I would also like to move on, but when I see how long we've been talking about this and how much resistance there was, I think this is a really big leap forward. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to leave it unnamed that we also do something for foster parents and adoptive parents. Their leave also goes to six weeks. My colleague Fatma Koşer Kaya had already put forward an initiative bill on this subject in the case of cross-country adoption. Now it is well regulated for all forms of adoption. I am very contented that this could be included in this proposal. Let's not forget them. In this very special situation, bonding with a child is also very important. We're going to take a big step forward, and I expect a lot of that. I expect that we can further support the bond between parent and child. And Mr De Jong rightly says: no one who does not record this is a bad parent, absolutely not. But how many parents are not very happy that they now get the chance, also as a partner, to have more time to build that band from birth? When I became a father, I also had two days. I can tell Mr Smeulders that, if he ever meets that pleasure, the wonder that comes with it and perhaps all the doubt, after this period, will not cease. Probably they'll never leave, just like the fun, by the way. But you have to do something about that and then help out a week like that. I hope, therefore, that parents are free to take this leave when the mother is back at work, so that they are alone with their children, not because I have to, but because all the studies show that this helps to strengthen that bond. That's not only good for the child, it's good for the partner, the father or the co-mother. I think it enriches your life, just to put a big term on it, but it is. I also expect that we can continue to support women's participation in the labour market and that we can do something about labour market discrimination, because the length of leave will be more equal and we will also show that both parents have a role to play in the birth of a child. I therefore expect to make a real contribution to reducing pregnancy discrimination. Here too: we are not yet there. We need to do much more about this at all, but I think that this proposal is good not only for the position of children, their development and the relationship between the partner and the child, but also for the labour market position of mothers. That is why I am very pleased that the leave is not transferable. I'm normally a very big fan of freedom of choice, but I think it's very good that this leave has really been assigned to the partner, so that he takes it. I have a few more questions. I understand the questions about the low-income group. That question is justified. I see that the Minister has tried to come up with a solution that was feasible and still somewhat affordable. I have to say that this has not been done. That is why I think it is important that if we are to monitor in the coming period whether this law is actually doing what we all hope, we should also look specifically at this group. I am equally curious whether, for example, social partners make additional agreements in collective agreements. We need to look at this, just as we need to look at whether it actually supports the labour market position of mothers. Of course, I think that is particularly relevant because I want to go even further than what is now in the future. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I also find it interesting how we are going to shape the public campaign announced on the importance of a balanced and well-considered distribution of work and care. Once again, people are allowed to make their own choices, but let us remind them of the advantages of dividing up those tasks. I also hope that this campaign will certainly look at the partner rather than almost stereotype the mother again. No, look at the partner, see how the father or the co-mother uses that leave. And I hope that attention will be paid in the campaign to how good it is to take that care alone. As a young father I say: that is quite exciting, but very beautiful. I saw a nice call from Rutgers and WOMEN Inc. to give that a role in that campaign. This does not have to be done in a deceptive way, but it has to be brought to people's attention so that they themselves make that assessment aware. Also, I'm curious and very interested if people are going to use the leave at once or if they're going to spread it a little bit. On maternity leave for mothers, we have already introduced the space, through an amendment by my colleague Pia Dijkstra and myself, to take the last part of that leave spread out, if you think that is more appropriate for yourself. Again, I am curious about what parents will do. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the step we are taking today. It's a leap forward. And yes, as far as I'm concerned, more can follow after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u42	I fully agree that this law is a leap forward. But there are also two weaknesses, perhaps more, but I have identified two weaknesses: thezzp'ers and the low incomes are excluded. I have also tried to help both groups with amendments. If D66 is serious, can I assume your support for these amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u43	I think there is a third point that Mrs Van Kooten has just mentioned, namely parenting. We wait for the effect how to deal with multiparentity. That will also have to translate at some point into how we deal with leave. So let me add that. As for the group of people at the bottom who can get below the social minimum if they take it in one go, I'm looking for something that works. By the way, I think that group is even smaller when people take it out. Your proposal, apart from the fact that I found your cover for an amendment creative, I am not convinced that this is feasible. I ask the Minister the same question. About the self-employed: yes, if I have to choose, then I choose to use the money that is now available for the employee and focus on the employee. That's a conscious choice. I also think that this is justified because independent entrepreneurs have a different position, just like directors-large shareholders. Would I like to take care of everything? Of course, always, but politics is also getting things done when it can. That is why we are now very consciously choosing to give workers six weeks' paid leave. I fully support that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u44	If I listen carefully to Mr Van Weyenberg, then an important objection, or possibly objection, is to cover my amendments. That's where space is. I call it the low-income advantage as possible cover. There's a lot to get there. I'm sure I can get your party to do the same. That doesn't all go to the right places right now. There are also more possibilities. So if the cover is the problem, then I do expect your commitment to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think I have also raised another objection, namely the feasibility. I am not taking anything away from Mr Van Dijk's point, but I am trying to imagine that group meeting at the SP: o help, we have a problem! A problem? Yes, the cabinet has submitted an even more social plan than our election program. Oh, no, that can't be true! Let's think of things very quickly to do more, or else we should say it's a good plan. Mr. Van Dijk, I'm happy with what you started. I thought that was a different tone from that of your own contribution. At least you praised the great leap forward. I think that's important. I am not convinced about the coverage of your amendment and about its feasibility. We have now agreed something that is not only a starting point but also a turning point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u46	Compliments to Mr Van Weyenberg. Good story. It's, I think, an important step for D66 as well. It is also for the Labour Party. So I'm not gonna let that go. However, I still have a question about the group which is at risk of falling under the social minimum. We've been looking for it, too. It's hard to implement. It doesn't cost that much money. Of course we have to cover it properly. Mr Van Weyenberg wants to keep up with it in the future and keep up with it every year, but is he still prepared to look even further for this group, which makes relatively less use of this kind of arrangement, to offer this possibility? Otherwise, it would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u47	Sure. I also think that keeping my finger on the wrist is very important. I would also like to see how many of that group of, according to the studies, up to 4,000 people decide to record it spread out, leaving a smaller group for which this is a problem. But still, this point is valid. I agree with you. If anyone has a good, workable solution, then I'm going to look at it very seriously. I believe that everyone in the Chamber has asked questions about this in the written rounds with the Minister. He's been looking. And if he finds a solution somewhere that we have not seen so far, there is no block of principle. In fact: please! I haven't been able to find it, and I don't think you have. So we keep looking by monitoring and, of course, doing something smart. But I want to do a little bit of expectations management. So far, none of us have been able to find the solution. Mr Jasper van Dijk thinks so, but the rest of us do not yet. So I don't want to work the very high expectation that tomorrow someone will suddenly find another miracle solution. But that would be good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. I just sent my policy officer home, 'cause he's got a little kid, just born. I thought I'd give him a night off. He just left with a big smile on his face. So I'm standing here without policy support. That's fine, because young fathers are just as important as young mothers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u50	You're making yourself vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's how politics is supposed to do it. Mr. Chairman. When I became a young father in 1995, I had to get back to work soon after my son was born. I had those first days, those first weeks actually, very much liked to have been with my wife. It may be the most turbulent time of your life when you have your first child. Husband and husband suddenly make you a father. For children and for relationships it is good to be able to experience that time with each other. Mr. Chairman. Today we are moving into the Netherlands a little bit in the twenty-first century. In the ideal of the Christian Union, fathers and mothers together simply have the opportunity to divide a good time at home, perhaps fifty-fifty, maybe one more and the other a little less. But it's about freedom of choice, freedom of choice for parents, and plenty of time to enjoy each other and get used to the new situation. Mr. Chairman. The Cradle is not only the law with the nicest name, but it is also the first step towards that ideal. With the cradle, birth leave for partners is extended from the current two days with payment of wages to once the weekly working time with payment of wages and additional the already mentioned five times the weekly working time leave. The Christian Union was originally concerned about the financial consequences for SMEs. It is therefore good to see that most of the costs are collectiveised, so that it is also possible for small employers to offer this. With the Cradle, the government intends to give concrete impetus to achieving a better participation of partners in the care and education of their child, to promoting the participation of women in the labour market and to achieving a more balanced distribution of work and care tasks. We now see that only 26% of women work full-time, while 73% of men work full-time or work in large part-time jobs, with an average of 38 hours per week. At present, labour participation for the Christian Union is not an end in itself, but the freedom of choice for families to organise work and care as they wish has increasingly disappeared into the background in the Netherlands in recent years. Moreover, this has more to do with the increased gap in the tax burden between one and two earners than with the lack of a partner's leave. Mr. Chairman. A concern that has already been raised several times concerns the 400,000 people who are at risk of falling below the social minimum. We have heard that it is complex to fight a supplement to the benefit for each other, but for my part, too, the question arises as to whether the Secretary of State is prepared to properly monitor whether the scheme in this form is accessible to this group of people. Knowing that in this group there are many of those who earn, the Christian Union is making extra alert to the opportunities that the scheme offers to these parents, for whom it is not so easy to give their children a good start in life. Mr. Chairman. Similarly, the scheme does not apply to self-employed persons; this has also been discussed earlier. We know there's a bunch ofzzp'ers who have trouble getting by. What affordable opportunities are there for these people? Can the Minister elaborate on that? Has the Cabinet considered what the proposed arrangement does with the difference between employee andzzp'er? It is precisely this cabinet that has said that it wants to balance that more, but it is now becoming even more expensive for employers to hire employees because they have to pay contributions for the additional birth leave. This makes it more attractive to work withzzp'ers or flex forces. How's the minister looking at this? Will this be taken into account in the Minister's proposals to bring the labour market more into balance? Mr. Chairman. There is also European legislation on birth leave. In fact, the government is getting ahead of this. To what extent will the Cradle be compatible with the EU rules that are coming towards us? So far, Mr. Chairman, my contribution and my first-term questions. It is nice that fathers and mothers are given the opportunity to be more present with their youngborn child. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is a good first step towards recognising that there is hardly anything more important than building a close relationship with your child in the first days of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Chairman. Mr Smeulders just kicked off the debate by saying that debates in this house are sometimes technical and abstract, while we are discussing a proposal that is very concrete, practical and important for future parents. That picture is in line with the reactions that I have had quite a lot from future parents and young parents in the past period. Those reactions actually have two sides. Firstly, there are the mothers and fathers who are pregnant, with whom a child is coming. They mainly ask the question: you are going to save the introduction period, aren't you? On the other hand, I also received various reactions from people, especially fathers, who already have children. They say, "Would you not have thought of this before?" Or even: can I claim it with retroactive effect? That last question even came from fathers whose children have already left the house! Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we are talking here about an important bill for all future parents. The extension of birth leave for the father, for the mother's partner, is a very good thing and, according to the reactions I have just mentioned, something we may have had to wait too long with each other. The Netherlands was on two days leave for the father, for the partner of the mother, really at the bottom. Several spokesmen for me have already mentioned that. It's very good that that's going to change. When Minister Asscher announced enlargement for the first time in the previous period, we also reacted positively. At the time, I believe that the House was broadly positive, perhaps least by its own PvdA group. There was also a consensus at the time that this would be a good step. However, quite soon after that, an election campaign came through, and a non-short formation. It is good that during that formation we managed to make serious agreements with four parties on extending that leave for the partners by one week's paid leave and then by five weeks, but unfortunately that takes a little longer to introduce. It is an important step forward. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Dijk of the SP said that it is actually a leap forward. I would like to congratulate the Minister and his officials on the fact that we can now discuss this so soon so that the deadline of 1 January will also be met for fathers and co-mothers. I am also curious whether the Minister can outline the timeline he sees between now and 1 January, so that we can make it together. Why is this important? That is also because the proverbial pink cloud after childbirth, which everyone always talks about, is in practice very often a very spicy time for people. Often that time is accompanied by sleepless nights and keep you on your own as good and evil as possible. With that leave, therefore, there will be more room for the care, love and attention of both parents for the newborn son or daughter and also for each other. That is a really good thing. It strengthens the bond in the very first phase of life. Mr Van Weyenberg already indicated that adoption leave would also be extended. That too is a good thing. The question whether this contributes to women's opportunities in the labour market is also linked to pregnancy discrimination. I think several spokesmen have already mentioned this. Pregnancy discrimination is a problem in the Dutch labour market. Does the Minister see that this proposal indirectly contributes to countering this pregnancy discrimination? Can the Minister answer that? This proposal strengthens the position of families. We amplify them considerably. That was a great wish of the CDA and, in my opinion, of almost all parties in their election programme. It is an important objective in the coalition agreement and, as Mr Van Weyenberg says, it is a great leap forward. Families and families are a foundation of our society. It's the place where you connect with your allies, where you need to be able to grow up and raise safely, where people take care of each other, help each other and where values and standards are transferred. The family as a form of society is unique and vulnerable, and that is precisely why it deserves support and protection. As a result, I would like to ask a number of questions about this bill. The first concerns the limited group on the social minimum for whom there may be difficulties in taking this leave. The Council of State points that out. I also think it is very important that this is monitored, because this type of leave should be available to everyone. If, in practice, it turns out that it is difficult for this group to take this leave, that is a problem. I would therefore like to put the question about this monitor to the Minister. How does he see this? How does he intend to keep his finger on the wrist in the coming period? Are there fewer opportunities for certain groups to make use of them, or are there problems when they use them? Are there specific possibilities for doing it part-time? Could they reduce the problems? Mr Van Weyenberg has already mentioned this. How does the Minister view this? I am not surprised that this bill is not going to apply tozzp'ers, becausezzp'ers are entrepreneurs and not employees. At the same time, with most of the spokesmen of this committee, we have also had rather intense debates on bogus self-employment. Mr Bruins mentioned this a moment ago. In the worst cases we find from left to right, Kamerbreed, that something has to be done in that area. How can we in practice prevent a group of workers who are entrepreneurs on paper, but who may in practice be a stripped worker, from being entitled to this case? What action does the Minister see for himself in order to prevent that? How is it prevented that there could be an additional reason for employees to opt for such a construction? Mr Bruins has already mentioned this. I think this is also important in this debate, and I hope that the Minister will respond to it. I have already mentioned pregnancy discrimination and the position of women in the labour market. That is also very clearly an objective of this legislative proposal. At the same time, in the explanatory memorandum and in the note on the report, the Minister states that it is difficult to predict. I understand that very well, and yet I wonder if the Minister can indicate when he is satisfied with this and how he intends to look at it. I just specifically asked him when he was satisfied with pregnancy discrimination. How does he want to see if that effect is there? Mr Bruins also mentioned the directive that is currently being discussed in Europe. I wonder how the Minister feels that this bill relates to that. I know that the SGP has an amendment which limits the duration of this leave. I am not in favour of it myself, but the explanatory statement refers to the fact that several European countries have two weeks. I am curious to see how those two weeks that these countries intend to adopt would relate to such a directive and whether these countries might not eventually have to move towards further extension as we are doing in this legislative proposal as a result of the European debate. I'd like a reaction to that, too. I'm rounding up. My group is very positive about this bill. It is an important leap forward for upcoming parents, for families in the Netherlands. On the basis of this debate, I dare to venture the cautious bet that there is broad support for it in the Chamber, and that is also a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The birth of a child is something incredibly special that can occur in your life. For many, it also happens or may happen in the future. It is a moment when you go from total happiness to total distress, I can tell from personal experience. But maybe I'm the only one in there. No, probably not. You really need a little time to get used to that, to find a form for that together. At all the feeling that there is someone extra in your life, is already quite intense, because you think you can mentally prepare yourself for it. You're thinking, "Yeah, that's how it's gonna be." Well, it's not like that, because it's very different. And that's what it takes as partners. You really need time for that. That is why it is a good thing that we in the Chamber today, I think, give broad support to a step forward; a very important step forward when it comes to extending partner leave at the time of the birth of a child. It is well known that the Labour Party has long been in favour of a substantial enlargement, because it has been said several times already.. we are lagging behind in comparison with other countries. Two days' birth leave, what are we talking about? In the previous cabinet period we tried to take a first small step, but this cabinet really takes a bigger step with a few weeks. And that's, I think, very good. So it's good that we do. Why that is good has also been said several times. It is good not only for the relationship between parents and children, but also for the position of women in the labour market. The intention is that you become more involved as a partner and that will also happen if you have more time for it with the care of a baby and then with the education of a growing child. If you do that together from the beginning, the bond is stronger. That also proves a lot of research. Then you will also automatically combine work and care more together. It is an ideal for the Labour Party and for several parties that you do this together and that you improve the position of women in the labour market at the same time. In short, this bill is a really good step forward. It's a first step, a very big step. The Labour Party and other parties are in favour of extending birth leave to three months. Is the cabinet prepared to look at this period, as things are getting better financially, or perhaps additional steps can be taken? And then, Chairman, the bill. It has also been said several times here that there is a group that is likely to fall under the social minimum if you do nothing about it. These are people around the statutory minimum wage, who make use of the parental leave scheme and then fall below the social minimum wage. Is the cabinet prepared to look at this again? Of course, the Council of State has pointed this out and the cabinet itself has also sought ways of resolving it, whether it is possible to meet this group, which appears to be less using this type of leave arrangements? It should be possible. Of course, the feasibility is very important, but can we not come up with a ruse that really enables us to meet this group? Because it doesn't make much money and therefore it can't easily save time to take up extra time. I appeal to the Minister to take a really good look at that. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We know several sectors and companies where many men work and where there is a culture where it is not socially desirable to take on your role as a partner and to fully shape care as a father at home. We can agree on a good law in the Chamber and a good extension of leave arrangements, but then you will see that there is still too little or no use of it in certain companies and sectors. That has something to do with culture. How is the Minister going to help companies and sectors to change this culture also in this type of sector and in this type of business? That's always difficult, but I'm still asking the Minister. Finally, Mr President, the directive from Europe. Also from Europe, rightly, it is said to the Netherlands: come on, you are lagging behind; while you say you are a modern country, the birth and parental leave regime you now know is not really of this time anymore. How does this directive relate to this bill and how do we proceed with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. I think there have been a lot of private concerns just now. I've been through three times that I became a father. That was very emotional. I guess those two days weren't enough for me either. I simply took a few weeks' leave after that. That went well. I have to say honestly: in my opinion, the bonding with the children is great. Mr. Chairman. When reading the bill, a special experiment occurred to me. Imagine if you could prescribe in a law how life should go. In such a law you would like to dedicate all articles to birth, joy and celebration. At least that's what I'm assuming. In that law, too, Article 1, of course, guarantees equal treatment for all. In the ideal world, no one is able to write a regulation for suffering, death and mourning. The legislator apparently also likes to look at the sun side of life. We do, but reality is different. The law does provide for leave after birth, but not for leave after funeral. The government is now putting in front of the Chamber a cradle to improve leave at birth. In response to our questions, it appears that she considers a scheme for mourning leave unnecessary. Unfortunately, reality is different from the law. The reality is that there is sweetness and suffering. Families and lovers would like to cross out what they would like it not to apply, but a choice from either of them is unfortunately not possible in practice. You'll get both, and you'll have to share it together. The life stage often starts nicely with the happy message of a birth. The new life demands the full attention of parents, especially when there are also concerns about health. At a later age, these roles are generally reversed. Then it is the children who put a lot of time and energy into caring for their parents, who have to deal with defects. There's no other way. It is particularly touching when parents lose their children. As far as we are concerned, the legislator must pay attention to all these situations. The SGP therefore considers it important that the legislator provides a balanced package of leave arrangements for sweet and suffering. I would therefore like to deal with three points: a more realistic birth leave, the introduction of mourning leave and a balanced alternative. It is an important responsibility of the government to encourage parents and children to have time for each other. A good family is half the job and a good start is half the job. This means that parents should be able to pay sufficient attention to their children from birth. Those two, or three, there you can argue about extending paid leave to a working week is very understandable and very good as far as we are concerned. The birth of a child is also an excellent time to look critically at the distribution of work and care and to arrange enough time for the family. Yet, in our view, that is not quite the direction the government wants to take. The policy also focuses on as much paid work as possible by both parents. It is clear from the explanatory statement that the purpose of the additional leave is not only to increase the provision of children by parents, but also, in particular, to increase the employment of mothers. On balance, the children in the policy are the child of the account. Why does this commitment remain so focused on more paid work? It may be me, but you don't live to work, but you work to live, do you? The SGP notes that the legislative proposals continue to pay little attention to the interests of the children themselves. The Economic and Social Council therefore points out that the first year after birth is a crucial phase for the well-being of young children. Wouldn't it be time to really take that as a starting point for policy? Then there's the grieving leave. In fact, a scheme for mourning leave should be more urgent than before birth. The death of a loved one...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u58	Before you go any further, I think Mr Van Dijk had another interruption on the previous point. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm just recuperating from what Mr Stoffer is saying. You don't just live to work; I think we all do. But there was also a sentence about the fact that mothers are not meant to work anymore. Is that really what Mr Stoffer meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u60	No. As far as we are concerned, there must be freedom in that. As soon as it came out in Mr Bruins' contribution to the Christian Union, it should not be a kind of one-sided direction for fathers and mothers to have full paid work. What you see in today's practice: in general, fathers work more than mothers. I think we should just be honest about that. We do not need to continue to do so, so that mothers have to go to a fully paid job as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u61	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u62	But it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u63	It's okay. That means that an extension of parental leave for which you can choose as a partner doesn't stand in the way of this goal, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u64	No. We have no objection to that either. I will come to my final point later. I have already said that this will be a balanced alternative. We very much welcome the fact that there will also be a bit of enlargement for partners. On the other hand, however, we can see that this enlargement will end up on the shoulders of employers. There are employers who might be able to do just fine. Examples have just been mentioned. For small employers this will be a very heavy burden. We really wonder: is that a right balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u65	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u66	The funeral leave. The death of a loved one is seen as one of the most difficult events in life; heavier than a birth. The government recognizes the profound nature of a death. Daily life can become totally disordered for a short or long time. However, the government is not in favour of legislation, because the way people handle mourning can vary greatly. That argument does not sound convincing to me. The difference in processing also applies at birth. Why should there not be at least a legal right after the funeral of a loved one to have a few days' paid leave? The SGP considers that the legislator should not shop selectively. Our question is therefore whether the Minister would like to explore how we can better deal with this. Then there's the alternative. Handing out presents is a popular task. I'd like to give it to everyone, especially this minister. But without wanting to spoil the festive mood, I would like to ask who is going to pay for the cost of the proposed birth leave. It cannot be the intention that we should be buying rounds here at the expense of someone else. In that light, the bill raises questions with the SGP. Employees not only go from two to five days' leave on payment, they also receive another five weeks' benefit at the employer's expense, not directly but indirectly. The SGP likes to see more balance, especially if we take into account the desirability of a mourning leave, because that also costs money. We cannot keep stacking the burdens, especially for small businesses. I have just mentioned it in the interruption. I have therefore tabled an amendment for a week in full and a week in part paid leave. Two weeks of Europe has often been cited as a time-limit in Europe at the moment, and we can therefore work on a piece of mourning leave with the savings. I look forward to seeing the government's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your contribution. Then I see Mr Wiersma standing up for his contribution on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr President, thank you. I know very well what a number of colleagues have mentioned here. A number of children have already passed and also that in a few seconds you go from happy to panic and then back again. So far I don't think there's been a moment in my life where I've experienced it so much and so many times. At some point I went out of the house screaming to get a scale somewhere because I could still be gone. After that I really liked coming back, because there is nothing more beautiful and perhaps nothing more important than the moment you have a little baby. It is a special time and it is also important that you can spend time on it, if only to learn how to change the full diapers. That helps your wife a little bit, and hopefully you'll keep doing it after that. You have to split that up by having a good conversation about it. That is important, but it is not always easy. We shouldn't trivialize that either. You have, at that time in your life, quite a lot of balls to keep in the air. It's a stressful period: work, family and everything around it. That brings something with it. The VVD has always been clear about the fact that you will of course have that conversation primarily at your own kitchen table. And no, the government doesn't always have to be there. And no, it doesn't just happen at that kitchen table. That's what you do with your employer in the workplace: working with your boss to see how you're gonna handle this well, not just the leave, but sometimes also how you can make your job more flexible and how you can combine work and care sustainably. Hopefully you'll have a boss who'll think with you a little bit. But, Mr President, we also see that parents and employers are not always on the same page. Then it is good that with this bill the government creates some order in the forest of possibilities and lays a bottom. We now have 16 weeks for the woman and two days for the man. It is a good thing that we are looking at that again with this legislative proposal and putting a new foundation into it. By the way, we still have some concerns and questions, and I will share them with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u69	I am pleased to be surprised by this story of the VVD. Actually, I thought this was a bad day and maybe even a black day for the VVD. I know from my experience of the past period that the VVD expansion has always blocked. We finally came to three days. It's not in the VVD's election program either; I haven't been able to find it anywhere. Is this perhaps the melon you should swallow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u70	Our election programme does not state whether or not we consider the bonding of parents and children to be important. We think it is very important and I have already told you that it would be very good if this discussion took place primarily at that kitchen table and on the workplace. But we also see that the Minister also states in the reply that collective agreements sometimes do and sometimes do not agree on them. It is good to draw a single line in that, because that gives clarity. And I don't think that's a melon. You have heard about my situation and I, in turn, recognize a lot of what you said. It will not surprise you that I think it is only right to help parents in this way. I'll get to it in a minute, but that's not gonna do us any good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u71	Then I may conclude that today we are seeing a new VVD, something I am truly pleased with; a VVD that does think of more than just parents' own responsibility when it comes to their children and sees that we can also do wonderful things here in The Hague and regulate them legally with each other. So congratulations for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you, and that was so soon in my speech. I have a few more questions in a moment, but I hope I can keep these compliments from Mr Van Dijk. They're worth a lot to me. Where I left off is that we should not pretend that it can only come from politics. This is a social debate, and it is very good that we are having it. This debate is not just being held here; we must be very honest about it. She's also fed to the workplace. There are decisions taken, choices made and very good discussions. There are also very good examples, and that is of course exactly what you would like. Here we have discussions about questions like how high it must be. In fact, you want that to do the best possible justice to the situation in which someone is sitting at the time, and you want to let them make the choice themselves. You want people to do that in consultation with each other and with their boss. I think that's the situation. Mr Van Dijk comes from the social partners. They see it as a great good that the choices are discussed and made as closely as possible in the workplace. So we need to keep that space, and we're keeping it with this bill. There has been talk of 70%. That's also space you can fill out on the work floor. I'll get back to you on that. In general, the objectives of this legislative proposal are, of course, all sympathetic and good: the link between partner and child, the balanced distribution, the increase in employment rates. But we don't have the red button with which we all realize that at once. I am curious to see what further obstacles the Minister will see in order to steer them along with this bill, also in connection with other policies. This is not just about steering from the government. I also ask him what he expects from the workplace and from the kitchen table. Above all, I am curious to see how we are going to do this in other ways than just this legislative proposal, because this is just a proposal that I believe should be linked to much more things. Indeed, there is already a great deal in rural and sectoral areas. You can already fill your job flexibly; there is a law for that. We have the Labour and Care Act. We also have opportunities to ask for more hours if you would like to work more. The question that arises here is how to make better use of all the existing ones in order to help bring closer to the objectives we set out in this law. Would it not be a good idea in the campaign announced by the Minister on this subject to highlight all the broad possibilities that already exist and not just isolate this bill? Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget all the other measures taken by this cabinet to make work pay and, for example, to allow for a higher childcare allowance. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. I would also like to hear a reflection from the Minister on the package of measures that will also contribute to these objectives. Specifically about this bill the following. The most important question is, of course, whether it will work. We'll just have to wait and see. That's what we need to find out. Much has already been said about it, including the 70%. The purpose of the cabinet is to include as many partners as possible. There are opportunities to spread it. But it is also said that there are no data on how that will happen. So we're really gonna have to find out. In my opinion, solving and repairing everything in advance has many other risks and obstacles. Still, you don't know if it's gonna work. So I think we should be careful of that. I come to a few points that we still have to worry about, starting with significant business or service interests. The Minister gives the opportunity to change it when that is at issue, and to say: we can see how you can fill it out on the workplace and how that can meet the company's interest at that time. But he's not proposing to refuse it, either. We see that many organisations in the field, such as LTO and ONL but also VNO-NCW, are concerned about this. Isn't that a different way to fix it? You have to make the application, you have to do the administration. Let's say you're a little entrepreneur and you have to do the job with a few people and you see this coming at you. Yeah, it's a little planning sometimes, but it's not always. Shouldn't you at least have enough eye for that? Is that changing enough? Could we at least monitor whether it is sufficient for these companies, especially for SMEs? In this respect, the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure has also made a point about the application. It has to be done by the employer. Small businesses could also be burdened by this. The ATR suggests just let the employee do it. The minister says he'll have to change the whole system. I understand that, but wouldn't it be good to see if that could be a possibility in the future? Another point, which the ESC has often pointed out, is the complexity and confluence of many regulations. How does the minister keep that on his retina for years to come? The ESC has wishes for that. Sometimes they are shared, sometimes they are not, but the most important point was actually the clarity. I think this bill does something about that, but it also introduces a new regulation, so how do we keep that in balance? Finally. We are also curious about what has been said here about income groups, about the burden of burdens and about obstacles that we encounter. We are curious how the Minister will monitor this in the years to come. In any case, we are very interested to be able to adjust effectiveness with each other. Finally, I agree with the questions that have been raised about Europe. We have the same concerns. How are we going to implement the directive that comes here? Negotiations are still under way, but at least I would like the Minister's promise, because we voted against in Europe, that we should fill in this directive as little as possible in the Netherlands. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Then I'll lock up. We support the objectives of this legislative proposal, as has already been said, in other words to promote the binding, balanced distribution and increase the employment rate. I can say from my own experience that there's a lot involved when you have a child. It would be nice if with the Cradle we took a new step in that which helps parents a little further. Before I say my last sentence, I will give Mr De Jong time to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u73	The last sentence remains... We're looking forward to that. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u74	I ask Mr Wiersma why he does not ask the Minister to tell Europe that he should not interfere with our rules on maternity leave or leave otherwise. He has just called for the directive to be implemented as little as possible, but why does he not say that it should not be implemented at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u75	That's what I said. I didn't just say that, you said that. We did not just say that together, as the majority of this Chamber said. If I have to say that again, I will do it again. The Minister knows, too. We don't want it. It is not for Europe to interfere in this. We don't want to add that to the kitchen table, just like I'm too careful with the government to that kitchen table. But... I have the impression, and perhaps the Minister can confirm this impression, that there are quite a few countries that think differently, which is why this is going to happen. In the meantime, I would prefer to think about how we can at least get as far out of this as possible, given that European directives are obviously there to implement. I don't want to. I've done my best to do that, too. We drew a yellow card here; you supported it. I think that message to the Minister is very clear. That is why I am asking for the commitment: are we going to do everything we can to prevent us from having it here? Maybe that'll help. Otherwise, implement as little as possible here. Fill in as minimum as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u76	That's not helping me at all. 'Cause that really fat "but" is what it's all about. The VVD may say it doesn't want to, but if there are countries that think it should, we still have to implement the directive. That's what the VVD is saying right now. Why doesn't the VVD just say "we don't want to, so we don't"? This means that we are not asking the Minister to implement it as minimally as possible, but not to do it at all. Whatever the consequences, let them come. Why doesn't the VVD say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u77	I'm very curious about the possibilities of not implementing this at all, but I'm also curious about the consequences. I think the Minister will want to point that out to us. Let's hear it. That is why I hope that we will at least do as much as possible not to make this, which we do not want, possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u78	And then you have the opportunity for your last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u79	Oh, yeah. Mr President, thank you. Actually, that was very disappointing. I didn't have it at all, but I wanted to keep room to throw it out. It is good to conclude with that this is an important moment for us and for all those young families who are trying very hard to keep all those balls in the air, but not the sacred moment. We're not gonna solve everything with this. We're only gonna help a little bit, but the most important part of this has to take place at that kitchen table and on the work floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Finally, Mr De Jong of the PVV Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr President, thank you very much. Having a child is a beautiful, but also an intensive, intense experience. A lot changes in a family's life. That is something that almost everyone will agree with, and that has come out frequently today. An important topic is the combination of work and care for the child. In practice, it goes well in many cases, when the employer and employee have made agreements and the employee has more room to be with his family and combine this well with work. However, we in the PVV Group want to see the guarantee that the partner can be with his family not two days after birth, but five days after birth. That is exactly what this bill does. The birth leave will be paid in full from January 2019 onwards. That is good, especially since the PVV has already tabled an amendment with the same wish in 2008. Now, ten years later and a great deal of political progress, it is finally a fact. The PVV will wholeheartedly support this, but from a very practical point of view, namely that we give it to a father that he can take the first five days off. I have a question about all these things like, if you do that, you live happier, you're gonna live healthier and shit. This is also reflected in the explanatory statement. That's way too much in the privacy of a father or a mother. You can assume, even when this bill was not yet in place, that parents always have the best interests with their child and with the family. So we should not pretend here that this is the Holy Grail, as if this is going to solve what many people in the Chamber apparently want to solve. We have the confidence in families that they want the best. This is a nice addition, but we shouldn't start pretending that parents weren't doing well before this bill came through. That's what I want to say here. Mr. Chairman. This bill regulates more. It also provides for a voluntary and supplementary maternity leave of up to five weeks. During that period, partners are entitled to a benefit through the UWV amounting to 70% of the wage. Why was it chosen to hold on to those five weeks? It is good that the employer is given the opportunity to fill in together with the employee how it is best to fit in with their organisation with scheduling and all that kind of stuff. So it's a good thing that's there. However, I would like to ask how this is specifically regulated for small and medium-sized enterprises. How is the criticism from small and medium-sized enterprises on affordability and adaptability for smaller entrepreneurs being dealt with? However, we think it is positive that there will be a possibility for parents to remove some of the financial obstacles. That's what I want to say. Mr. Chairman. Then to the adoption and foster care leave from four to six weeks. I would like to zoom in on foster care in the Netherlands and take the opportunity to express my great appreciation for people who work hard for foster children day in and day out. These families, too, deserve our appreciation. An extension of leave fits in with that, because it is quite a lot to include children, often with all kinds of challenges, in your family. In addition, against the number of children that can be included in a foster home, there is still a shortage of foster homes in the Netherlands. As a result, almost 200 children are on the waiting list to be included in a foster home. That's 200 kids. I think that's a huge number. Extension of leave may have a positive effect on the attractiveness of being a foster family. That is why I would like to say that we are in favour of this. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, the PVV tabled an amendment in 2008 concerning the extension of two to five days. We welcome the fact that it will finally happen after 10 years, so we will support it. I await the Minister's reply for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u82	Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. We are suspending for 50 minutes, that is to say we will be back here at 7.55 p.m. for the Minister's first term, in which he gives the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u83	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to answer the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are talking about the Act introducing extra birth leave, the Cradle. A lot of compliments have been made for the name. I must explicitly mention the two creators of this name, Mr Paul van Dun and Mrs Annemieke Wortman, who are sitting on the banks to give them the attention they deserve. I have also heard compliments to the officials tonight for the speedy implementation and I am happy to pass them on to the people who support me. There has indeed been very hard work and very fast work and I am very happy with that. Some of you said it's a big leap forward. Fortunately, that is a broad feeling in this Chamber. I'm proud of it, too. I'm proud of this law. Next, I have another debate on the implementation of the IORP II. I've been more excited about this, I say honestly. Striking tonight is that I see a lot of fathers in the room. Personal debominations were also discussed. That's good to see. I also recognised Mr Heerma's comment. Over the past few months, when I was questioned about this bill, it was by fathers who were already fathers and who asked: can't it be with retroactive effect? I had that feeling when I was at the Nine-Month Fair, where I announced this bill. There were all new fathers there who said: nice, this proposal, but does it still apply to me? That is why we have made a great deal of haste to get it going as quickly as possible. The intention is to take the first step by 1 January 2019 and then the second step by 2020. Again, I'm proud of it. With this law we are taking a substantial step forward in the leave for fathers and partners. I say to Mrs Van Kooten: it is also about the co-mothers after the birth of their child. The leave will be extended from two days to six weeks and in 2019 the first step will be taken to five days. In 2020 there will be another five weeks. With this enlargement, we want to ensure greater involvement of the partner in child care, a better division of labour and care responsibilities between the partners in the family and indeed a higher participation of women. I would like to focus very briefly on the importance of birth leave. Some of you have already indicated that the first few weeks after the birth of the child are very special for many reasons. I give it to everyone to experience it, including you, Mr. Smeulders. With extra paid leave for fathers and partners they can be longer at those first weeks. An advantage that research has also shown is that fathers who are longer with the child in the first days continue to take on more care tasks. That is very important, first and foremost for the fathers themselves. This gives them more time to get used to the new presence of the child, the new family composition and the care tasks associated with it. This provides a solid basis for more involved parenting of partners in the years after. The extension of maternity leave is also a substantial step for mothers. It is of course nice to be able to be with the family the first days after birth. But when fathers take on more care tasks, mothers also have more room to continue to combine work and family life. For example, maternity leave contributes to the labour market position of women, their careers and also their economic independence. That is also my answer to Mr Stoffer's question as to why the cabinet is using paid work for both partners. It is indeed about the two partners and their activities. Many of you have already said it: it is necessary. Because the Netherlands has the international ranking of the proportion of women who work. This is in itself positive, but by far the majority of women work part-time in the Netherlands. It is still common ground that women carry out the most caring tasks and the man takes on the bulk of the work. That leaves a lot of women's careers and talent unused. Moreover, more than half of Dutch women are not economically independent. My colleague Van Engelshoven has also recently drawn attention to this. The distribution between men and women has improved. Men have been more concerned in recent years and women have gone to work more, but we are far from there. The balance between work and private life is very different for many women than for men. This inequality has not been eliminated one-two-three, but the extension of birth leave for fathers and partners is an important step in the right direction. The aim is to bring the balance between work and caring for both partners more into line. This law makes an active contribution to this. From this autumn onwards, I will come back to the specific questions about the campaign "Following parents" will be actively encouraged to discuss the distribution of tasks together. Far too often, this conversation strikes and parents fall back into traditional role patterns. Parents are often not fully aware of the impact of unequal division of labour on career prospects and also on financial vulnerability later in life. In the awareness campaign we are therefore committed to providing parents with tools and information to engage each other, indeed at the kitchen table. That campaign starts in mid-October. Finally, I would like to emphasise in my introduction the point made by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr De Jong, namely that of adoption and foster care leave. That too is extended from four to six weeks. This is often wrongly neglected in this discussion. I think it is very important that the adoptive and foster care parents have more time to prepare themselves, like all other parents, for the child's arrival. The extension of leave gives them more time for this. This way they can guide the child themselves without having to fulfil all kinds of work obligations. I think that's a good thing. I agree with Mr De Jong and Mr Van Weyenberg on this point. I've written down some blocks of questions and I'd like to walk them by for the order. The first is that of the amount of the benefit, then that of the duration of the benefit and the target group of the scheme. There's a separate block about self-employed people,zzp'ers. There were a few questions about employers, about the European debate that is still going on and about the communication campaign, and there is a block of diversity. A lot of questions have been asked, including a lot of detailed questions, so I'm going through it in a fast train ride. Many of you, Mr Smeulders, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mrs Van Kooten and Mr Gijs van Dijk, have asked questions about the level of the benefit and I understand them very well. The first week is therefore fully paid, 100%. In the later phase a percentage of 70% was chosen, also because we expect a contribution from the partner. The benefit thus amounts to 70% of the wage. That is a very substantial contribution to compensate for the loss of income. The employee actually fits 30% in the form of a reduction in income. The cabinet is well aware that the loss of 30% is not easy for everyone to cope with. This is true of the lower income groups as well as of those on high incomes. They did not come to the debate today, but the social security threshold has been kept, so people with an income above €55,000 receive 70% of the maximum daily wage. We have really opted for a transparent, clear and explanatory implementation, which also reduces the administrative burden and is enforceable. We have really looked closely at the potential target group for birth leave with a wage between 100% and 140% of the wml. This group consists of approximately 20,000 people. That is a correction to the note on the basis of the report, which stated that it concerned 11,000 people. I'm correcting that number. The number of 4,000 that is at risk of getting underneath has not changed. Indeed, that is still the figure we are assuming. We've been looking for solutions to meet this group. We've been thinking about the Supplementary Act and we've been looking at other alternatives to supplementing benefits. But because of the individual application of this scheme, we have to determine, per person and per payment period, whether one is below the social minimum and, if so, how big the supplement should be. We've studied this intensively. This is very complex, very practical and also costly in the execution. We've been thinking about the alternatives. One of the choices we have made to do justice to this is flexibility in the scheme. We get the opportunity to record those five weeks within six months of the child's birth. There is a possibility of including this flexibility in that six-month period, without excessive income losses. Of course, the first week is 100%, fully paid. It is expected that the share of partners that will not fully benefit from supplementary leave for financial reasons will be as limited as possible due to the choices made in the legislative proposal. At the same time, that is also a point of interest to me. Some of you, Mr Heerma, have said it, Mr Eppo Bruins, and I believe that Mr Gijs van Dijk is asking how we are going to monitor this. How are we gonna keep up with this? Is it true that we have made these possibilities in the law, which means that it is used well in practice? The biennial monitoring of the leave scheme carried out by the CBS will include monitoring how the leave is used by different income groups, especially to keep an eye on the pulse. A supplementary question from Mr Van Weyenberg: are the wage supplements or extensions of the duration in collective agreements followed? Yes. Biennially, the Ministry of Social Affairs examines the collective agreement provisions, including leave arrangements. The latest investigation has recently been published. In the next round we will indeed take this development with us. That is, I think, a short amount of the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u85	So you're saying that's the end of the block of benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u87	Very good. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u88	Perhaps the Minister can direct my amendment to item No. This is also an attempt to meet this group by paying them the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u89	Do you mind if I do that amendment at the end? I can take it from here, though. That's not a problem in itself, but I had them reserved for the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u90	I do not care if all the amendments have been discussed at the end. If you can do it now, you will meet Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u91	The reaction to piece No. 12, the amended amendment. This option is not workable in practice. A complicating factor is that workers can also fall below the minimum wage because of their working hours. The UWV does not have data on working time or part-time factor and does not have a good overview of the number of hours worked by employees in irregular employment. Using a part-time factor is new and complex for the UWV systems and needs to be completely re-implemented. Working with working time seems in fact not feasible and therefore not enforceable. All these variants have, of course, been included in the draft law. That's what we've been looking for. The conclusion is still: it becomes very complex and very expensive. But it is also very complex for people: it is almost inexplicable. It can also lead to unwanted outcomes. There may be a crooked situation in which the partner also gets a supplement to wml level if the mother has a reasonable income, while a single earning partner who earns less than the part-time working woman does not get a supplement. In other words, the amendment is simply not feasible. That's why I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u92	It remains to be seen that the Chamber and the Minister recognise that there is a problem and that the arrangement for this group is not sufficient. I have tried the amendment. I would at least hope that the other parties will be able to think along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u93	That's up to the other parties, not me. I see the point. I want to monitor it. Again, in the scheme's design, by applying the flexibility of those five weeks in six months, we hope to meet this. All the other alternatives that we have looked at are really very complex and very costly, and with that, fraud-prone, unmanageable or indeed lead to unequal treatment. That is why we have chosen to join systems that we already know, which can also be executed and maintained by the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u94	This is a concern of several parties and indeed of the Minister. It's very hard to solve. I'd like to make one more attempt anyway. We can also create a kind of beep system for people who say: I really can't get out; I have a legal right, which I'm going to use. They can then, for example, knock on the door of the municipality to solve this individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u95	Then we get a complicated implementation practice with a form of special assistance. That would be the system, I suppose. I wonder if we should add that complexity to this arrangement. It must also be practicable and workable. I can't just throw a problem over the fence at the county. That wouldn't be proper in terms of governance. We have really looked at it and, in the end, we have considered it in order to align it with the current premium and collection system, the current policy administration, also because of its enforcement. Otherwise you will have other discussions in the sense that you will have different enforcement bodies. We really did our best. This is the best viable arrangement we can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u97	There were a few questions about the duration of the benefit. Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked: are partners going to take the leave in one go or are they going to spread it, and are we going to monitor it? Of course, that remains to be seen. Parents are free to make their own choices. Mr Van Weyenberg also referred to the Pia Dijkstra motion on the relationship with maternity leave. The question is, of course, how are these two laws going to react to each other? Mr Heerma asked for this too. I can well imagine a partner taking leave after birth, for example two weeks, and the other taking up four weeks later, for example when maternity leave ends. But this is guessing. We're going to monitor it to map out exactly what's happening with this in practice. Those were the specific questions about duration. Mrs Van Kooten had a question about the multiparent model and the lhbti'ers. For the sake of completeness: co-mothers, partners, are subject to this law. What Mrs Van Kooten is right about is that two years ago, there was a State Committee on Parenthood, led by Aleid Wolfsen. That is what recommendations have come out of it. The current Minister for Legal Protection is engaged in additional research to map this out. I'm going to look at the date; by letter dated 22 March 2018, Minister Dekker for Legal Protection announced that he would come forward with the results of the surveys on the multiparent model in early 2019. This is a part of the rainbow voting agreement. The UN Children's Rights Convention will also be involved. At the moment I cannot anticipate that, but this bill is also based on co-mothers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u98	I see Mrs Van Kooten reporting for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mothers do, but if there is now a surrogate and two fathers, neither father claims leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u100	That's right, that's why we have to wait and see. The State Commission-Wolfsen on Herijking parenting has written a very thick report of 700 pages. The conclusions also contain a number of recommendations for this cabinet to investigate further. This concerns, in particular, tax aspects, inheritance and gift law, all these aspects. Minister Dekker is figuring that out. The intention is that this will lead to proposals to implement the multi-parent model in Dutch legislation. That is a very complicated legal reality. As a simple economist, it transcends me, but Minister Dekker is working on it right now. At the beginning of 2019, his response to the elaboration of the Wolfsen Commission will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u101	This concerns the response to the drafting of the report. But do you have any idea if this parenthood could possibly be made possible and this report could also apply to those parents? 'Cause this is kind of vague. It just keeps moving forward. The Minister's Party also signed the Rainbow Agreement and agreed to make efforts to promote multi-parenthood and its legal protection. So I would like something more concrete than: at the beginning of 2019 there will be a response to the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u102	Of course, I'm standing here as a member of the cabinet. In the coalition agreement, we have also taken the recommendations of the State Committee on Parenthood as the starting point for this further exploration. Moreover, it concerns the recommendations of the State Committee itself to investigate these matters more closely. That's what Minister Dekker is doing right now. Once again, it is a very complex legal and fiscal matter. That needs to be properly figured out. I'm afraid I can't anticipate it, because I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u103	It's urgent and complex at the same time. It's always complicated. It is true that we are now thinking in accordance with the recommendations of the State Committee. Following on from the previous interruption: one of the questions that, unfortunately, by then, we cannot do so now, is how, for example, this law also plays a role. So could this minister tell Mr Dekker that this law is absolutely beautiful, but that we must also take into account the consequences of multiparenting? Because there is still an ambition there; I very much agree with Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u104	This is certainly the intention, because in existing legislation, leave forms and taxation are the starting point. A solution must therefore be found. Many questions have been asked by Mr Smeulders, Mr Eppo Bruins, Mr Heerma, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk aboutzzp'ers: why are they not covered? And how do we look at that in a broader sense? We have made the choice that birth leave is there for the workers. This also fits in with the general line, as Mr Heerma rightly said, that self-employed entrepreneurs themselves are responsible for their working hours and leave periods. They know well in advance that their family is being expanded and can take timely measures if they want to be free for some time after birth. Similarly, it is a consequence of self-employment that periods of reduced income have to be taken into account, for example because of holidays, illness or few assignments. This is inherent in the partnership and there are also tax advantages to this. Let me give you an example of the self-employed deduction. However important leave is at birth, the government does not want to deviate from this general line in the context of maternity leave. This can only be done in the context of a broader discussion onzzp. Mr Heerma asked a question about this. In addition, the implementation of a self-employed scheme would be quite cost-intensive. For independent fathers and partners are a new target group for the UWV, for which no data are currently available at the UWV. An extension to this target group could not be included in the current trajectory. Mr Heerma, of course, has a point to make when it comes to the widerzzp debate. Before the recess, I sent a letter to the Chamber and the Committee on Social Affairs on the elaboration of plans from the coalition agreement. One is about the underside measures. In the coalition agreement we have chosen a rate between €15 and €18 per hour. In fact, we say that people underneath are no longer self-employed in the future and have to go to employment. You know I'm very busy working that out. That also has a relationship with this discussion. Another relationship is there with the Labour Market Act in balance. I thought it was Mr Bruins who asked about the cost differences between employees andzzp'ers. He wondered if this would not lead to an attractive effect onzzp'ers. Of course, we try to resolve thezzp discussion with the successor of the DBA Act, but also with the Labour Market Act in balance, in which we choose to make less flexible and flexible. We also try to reduce the difference between fixed and flex by means of premium differentiation in the WW, by means of the transition fee from day one, and by means of the discussion about payroll, precisely as a solution in this broader discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u105	Are you done with the block of zzp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u107	Then I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u108	I do agree with the Minister: it is a broader discussion aboutzzp, compliance, enforcement and who is and who is notzzp'er. You should involve this discussion in that. In my view, you should talk much sooner about incapacity for work than about birth leave, for example. This scheme has also been financed by contributions. Does it not, of course, also affect entrepreneurs, because they do not participate in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u109	Not even for dga's, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u110	Exactly. But my question is important, given that this is a very big discussion: when does the Minister come up with this sort of effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u111	I promised the Chamber that in October I would come forward with the further development of the successor to the DBA Act. Recently, on 3 September, I had another session with 40zzp organisations and entrepreneurs, just to talk about those plans. At the end of October, I say by heart, but at least well before the budget debate I come up with a letter setting out the three categories: the underside measures, the opt-out at the top and the middle category. I will also discuss the discussion on how to combat bogus self-employment and how to ensure that there is room for real entrepreneurs to undertake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u112	As in the case of low incomes, I have tabled an amendment onzzp'ers. That is the amendment to item No. 10. The question I would like to ask is the following. The minister says we're just not gonna do it forzzp'ers. But how are we going to strengthen the relationship of the mother's partner with the child, if that partner is azzp'er?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u113	In the note relating to the report, but also in my reply, I responded in general terms and indicated that self-employed workers are entrepreneurs. That is also Mr Heerma's line in his term. They have greater flexibility and are indeed responsible for this because of the planning and flexibility of their work. They are entrepreneurs, who are not in line with the tax structure and the contribution structure of the UWV for employees. These have been the reasons also mentioned in the note on the report and the explanatory memorandum why it was chosen not to bringzzp'ers under the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u114	That would apply to some of thezzp'ers, but another part of thezzp'ers can't easily draw a fall in income at all. For that group, it just means no leave of absence. That group will then be excluded, according to this ratio. Again, I've made an attempt to meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u115	In addition to the general remark I made, also in the note on the report I sent to the Chamber, I would like to make one additional argument. A five-week supplementary maternity leave scheme forzzp'ers is extremely sensitive to abuse and not enforceable, as these data are not available at the UWV. They can't be controlled. It is hardly possible to check whetherzzp'ers have actually been on leave for the entire period. Such an arrangement cannot therefore be maintained. In addition to the principled choice to join the employee structure, also because zzp'ers are entrepreneurs, subject to specific tax legislation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why I must also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u116	Continue with the next block, about the employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u117	That's a very short block. Mr Wiersma and Mr De Jong also asked questions about the impact on SMEs, on entrepreneurs and on employers. It was asked whether it is possible for employers to refuse leave and not just to change it in the event of a serious business interest. The refusal of leave is not possible. As Mr Wiersma points out, leave can be granted at other times. But you can't refuse. The cabinet attaches great importance to maternity leave and its objectives. This should not be dependent on the employer's view. So it's a real right. But in the event of a major business interest, the pattern of inclusion can be changed. This gives the employer, in my opinion, a good opportunity to reduce or prevent any undesirable consequences for his business operations. This also applies to SMEs. Moreover, this is already existing practice, for example on parental leave and working flexibly under the Act. We have joined in because such a regulation already works in practice. I think it would be a good idea to include this aspect in the monitoring exercise, and I saw that Mr Wiersma wanted to get up and, in particular, to ask SMEs how it looks at this in practice. I'd like to give you my word on that. I'm getting to another block, Mr. Chairman. That is Europe and wider the ESC opinion. The birth leave and, more generally, the involvement of fathers and co-mothers, as I say again, in the care of the child, we should also welcome a great interest in the Economic and Social Council and in Europe. In the draft law, the ESC and the employers' and employees' organisations see an improvement in the current parental leave for fathers at birth by extending the length of leave and payment during leave. However, the ESC calls for further optimisation of the leave system through the integration of various schemes such as birth and parental leave. In addition, the proposal for a directive on work-life balance is also being discussed in Europe. That includes paid paternity leave and paid parental leave. I've been discussing this with your room on a regular basis. Indeed, in the previous period, under my predecessor, a yellow card has been drawn by Parliament. A motion was tabled at the time, I thought by Mr Wiersma, and a two-thirds majority of the House said that the Dutch Parliament did not think it was a European matter. I recently voted against the proposal at the last European Council in Luxembourg. We also discussed this in general consultations prior to the European Council. I was one of the few there. Denmark also voted against, but for the rest all countries voted in favour. Mr Wiersma is right, therefore, that this debate is alive in Europe. It is complicated to indicate where this proposal is going. After it has been adopted in the European Council of Ministers, the trialogue phase has, of course, begun, i.e. consultation with, among other things, the European Parliament. There have just been many suggestions and proposals from the European Parliament, and we do not yet fully understand where this is going under the Austrian Presidency. My reaction to the debate in Europe was that it was a little vague what was proposed in Europe. There was a proposal on paid parental leave and paid paternity leave, which eventually evolved into an adequate pay. It is therefore not defined how high such compensation should be. For the sake of completeness, the proposal in Europe went over ten days paid paternity leave against an adequate pay, and four days paid parental leave against an adequate pay. But what exactly that adequate pay, that adequate payment............................................................................................................................................................. At the moment, therefore, it is very complicated to indicate where this proposal is going. The Netherlands therefore voted against the proposal on urgent instructions from your Chamber, on the basis that it is social security legislation that should be the subject of the Netherlands. But it's really hard for me to tell where this is going. At the same time, I see that a broad majority of countries, and I think a broad majority in the European Parliament, are moving in this direction. I think it is very good, if that becomes clearer, to think about how we deal with leave forms as well. But at the moment there is not so much sense to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u118	Of course, it is instructed from the Chamber, but it is really very strange that as a modern, western, prosperous country we should say to an encouragement from Europe: you are not talking about it, but we do not really like it either. But can it be that this will soon be a minimum from Europe and that we will have to take a few more steps? That's how I asked for it in my input. Because Europe is going a little further, if I understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u119	Not when it comes to paternity leave or co-parent leave. The proposal now before us is in ten days' time. That was once 70% of the salary and at some point there was also a discussion about 80% of the sickness benefit. So now it's not defined, an adequate pay, so it's still unclear. But the proposal for paternity leave is not 100% in ten days' time. So we are now going to make this proposal 100% for the first week and 70% for five weeks far beyond the European proposal. So it doesn't pinch there, and I don't expect it to pinch there either. Another discussion is about parental leave. This discussion has not yet been resolved either. It's still hanging. The European Commission's proposal, as amended by the Member States, is four months' paid parental leave against an adequate pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u120	Why don't we just keep using the Dutch word? That doesn't deviate so much, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u121	No, so at an adequate level. Sorry, you're right, Mr. Chairman. This needs to be further developed in the trilogue phase with the European Parliament and the European Commission. And I would add that even from the moment a decision is taken, it will take at least three years before it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u122	That brings me to the question of this Minister's ambition. This Minister is taking a really big step, but it is a first step. That's what's said here. Even the VVD I heard say this is a first step. Should there be political space in the coming years, will this Minister take next steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u123	I am very pleased with this step. I'm just gonna have to celebrate that party. Mr Gijs van Dijk agrees with me. In the coalition agreement we made these agreements. I think it's nice to keep those appointments. I've been kept to that, too. I'm putting that in now. Dreams are always possible, so we'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u125	In my view, I have had the questions about Europe and compatibility with EU legislation. The connection, calls Mr Van Weyenberg. Thank you! When I talk about Europe, it's always in English. Now to the next block, chairman, namely communication and campaign. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a specific question. Does the campaign look not only at the range, but also at the influence of the behavior? Do partners actually take leave more often when they're familiar with it? The communication on the introduction of the Cradle focuses on the fame and effectiveness of birth leave. By means of targeted information, including through social media, birth leave is brought to the attention of the target group. In addition, the campaign "Are you out already?" starts in mid-October. I have just said something in my introduction about the conversation about the division of labour between parents. Research shows that many parents do not explicitly discuss the division of labour with each other when the first child arrives. This campaign makes parents aware of the importance of this conversation and its impact on the future distribution of tasks. This campaign will also be evaluated in terms of reach and effectiveness. Mr Van Weyenberg has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u126	I suggest you finish the communication block first. After that, Mr Van Weyenberg can ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u127	As a result, Mr Gijs van Dijk asked a valid question about a cultural change. In some sectors it may need to take place more than in others. Mr Gijs van Dijk is right that business culture and conversation on the workplace can influence the preferences for the distribution of work and care. Last April, MPs Van den Hul and Özütok of PvdA and GroenLinks tabled a motion on this matter. Following this motion, the public campaign Hoe Werkt Nederland will pay extra attention to the inclusion of leave in sectors in which many men work. With good examples and videos this theme will be featured in this autumn. As a follow-up to Mrs Özütok's motion, Mr Smeulders also asked. I answered it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u128	Parents end up making their own choices. I had said in my contribution that it would be very nice if part of the leave was taken by the partner at the time the mother is already working, for example. In the jargon it's called solocare, but I'm afraid to repeat that now. That's what I'm telling this chairman. So that's really being home supplemental. That is also a call from WOMEN Inc. and from the Rutgers Foundation. I had asked whether that element, or at least highlighting its value, was part of that campaign. It would be a shame for me to take all the leave when the mother is at home. People can do that, but I have a slightly higher purpose with this law. Is that part of the campaign, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u129	There's a violent nodding in my support, so yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u130	I would say that the word "solocare" should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u132	Minister, continue with the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr Jasper van Dijk asked how the Minister looked at the situation in countries such as Norway and Finland. In Finland birth leave is a few weeks longer than proposed in the Cradle. Finland has a 70% payover the whole period. It is interesting that in Finland part of the days of leave may not be taken together with the mother's leave. That is a bit of the point that Mr Van Weyenberg just made in the campaign. At the same time, I see that the leave system is further complicated and that parental choice is also restricted. I am prepared to pay attention to the benefits of the temporary inclusion of leave arrangements in information. I say this in response to Mr Van Weyenberg, but I put it in my reply to Mr Van Dijk. In Norway it is ten days' leave for partners, but these days are legally unpaid. However, Norway has a very large parental leave scheme. This is quite different from a paternity leave scheme, but in practice it appears that parental leave is much more taken up by women. By extending the leave of the partner with the Cradle and also not making it transferable, fathers are also more involved in the education of the child. Moreover, it is quite interesting to see, in the context of this European discussion with my fellow ministers from other countries, that in some countries there are indeed wide leave arrangements, but in practice it is difficult to reach young fathers in particular. They often take up those opportunities later, when the children are older. Then you will see a division of labour that is mainly for women. But let's get this over with. Then I had two amendments. Oh, sorry, I forgot to ask you a few questions. Mr Stoffer had a specific question about mourning leave. It was already stated in the note on the report and an answer had been given to that. In the event of the death of one's neighbour, one is entitled to calamity leave from the day of death to the funeral. Research has shown that mourning is different for everyone and is experienced differently by everyone. One wants to quickly resume everyday life and the other is unable to do so for a long time. Research shows that it is particularly important that the person concerned should be given the space to mourn and understand and support his working environment. We have already indicated in the note on the report that we now see no reason to introduce a period of mourning leave. So that's not what the cabinet chooses. Mr Heerma specifically asked about pregnancy discrimination. Indeed, with the introduction of the Cradle, the difference in leave at birth between men and women has been substantially reduced, from 16 weeks minus two days now to 10 weeks from 1 June 2020. This is expected to increase the chances for women in the labour market and reduce pregnancy discrimination, because there is simply less difference in the length of leave between the two partners. This is often also a reason for employers to sometimes implicitly discriminate. Pregnancy discrimination is certainly also addressed in the implementation plan of the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan which the Secretary of State will send to the Chamber in November. She has promised this, also because the government agreement has explicitly addressed the fight against pregnancy discrimination. The last question in my set was from Mr Wiersma: how does the Minister balance the complexity of the various leave arrangements? I can very well imagine this question, because I am also occasionally still looking for what leave arrangements there are and what they relate to. However, if you look at it for longer, simply merging leave arrangements is not the solution either. That would be more of an optical simplification, because of course all these types of leave have been retargeted or focused on very specific situations of birth, mourning and calamities. So in the broader discussion, also in connection with the ESC opinion that I have just mentioned, it is interesting to look at it more fully, but I think it would be wise to do so when it is clear what will come out in Europe in the work-life balance. Then we could also get a better view of the directives from Europe and see how we can better organise our own Dutch leave system. Those were the questions, at least in my opinion. I have two further amendments, which I do not yet have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u134	Before you adopt an opinion on the amendments, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u135	The minister's talking about the work-life balance. He states that the Cabinet is not inclined at the moment to look at the funeral leave. Does the Minister agree with me that a death is also very profound, that the work-life balance can also be greatly disturbed and that it would be good to perhaps take a look at it? I think it is now a bit short-sighted and I would like to have a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u136	I very much agree with Mr Stoffer that losing a close friend is a very serious event. The question to that effect was indeed raised in the written round during this legal procedure. I've just indicated that various studies show that people have different ways of dealing with mourning. We have calamity leave in the Netherlands, which makes it possible for us to die and have a funeral. At the moment, the cabinet sees no reason to extend the leave for mourning. In doing so, I absolutely do not wish to trivialise the fact that the death of a partner or a family member can be very serious. I agree with Mr Stoffer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u137	I do not think that the Minister and I agree, and I am actually a little disappointed by the answer. The calamity leave is beautiful, but it's designed to settle things. Then you fall into a black hole. Then you have a lot of work to do. For one, that's different than for the other. But it's the same with a birth. I shall therefore be tabling a motion on it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u138	Then there is the appreciation of the Minister for the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u139	The amendment in part No. 7 by Mr Stoffer touches on the discussion we are having now. The SGP notes that the Netherlands will soon take the lead in Europe with the extent of the birth leave for the partner. That is a fair observation. In my opinion, there's nothing wrong with that. In fact, we can be proud of that. But no matter how we feel about it, a nuance is in order. In fact, in most European countries there is a very extensive parental leave scheme, with partial payments, for example in Belgium for eight months, in Denmark for eleven months and in a large number of countries for even longer. In the Netherlands parental leave is a total of 12 months, namely six months for both parents. In the Netherlands, it is longer than in some other countries but legally unpaid. Moreover, about a quarter of employees are covered by a collective agreement in which a payment has been made. This has to do with our organisation in sectors and collective agreements. We are now taking a big, beautiful step with the extension to six weeks. Mr Stoffer's amendment takes it back to two weeks. I wouldn't want to go back there. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 8 by Jasper van Dijk has already been an interruption debate in the first term of the Chamber. Indeed, it is striking that 70% was also used in the SP election programme. We have already talked extensively about the level of benefit. We have deliberately chosen this in the design, because of its feasibility and enforcement. The 70% benefit remains a very substantial compensation for the costs resulting from the employee's own choice to take leave. I find the coverage of the amendment interesting. I now understand the phrase 'in consultation with the grassroots', which referred to the General Political Reviews. At the same time, the coverage mentioned here is of course not coverage. It's behavioral effects. For example, it may have an effect on childcare, but it does not have to be. These effects are normally not shown as cover. The budget surplus is never a cover that the Minister of Finance accepts. In addition to substantive considerations, therefore, coverage also rages. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u140	It's gonna trigger a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u141	I have indeed been inspired by Mr Pechtold. Let's make that very clear. It came up with this construction and I embrace it with all my heart. The minister doesn't mention one cover very handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u142	The low-income advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u143	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u144	That does not change my opinion of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u145	You cannot agree with the justification, but at least that is a very manageable cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u146	Sure, sure. That is indeed not... The coverage of this amendment concerns the childcare allowance and its behavioural effects, the low income benefit without specification and the budget surplus. I find that a complicated cover in technology. Mrs Leijten is now the financial spokesman. Maybe she can give us some tips.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u147	Finally. You're doing the best you can, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u148	Look, you're misinterpreting it. It's a choice menu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u149	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u150	I am simply giving the Chamber and the Minister a chance to say: it does not have to be so, but it can be so. I give several options, like Mr Pechtold, who also ordered the government to take cover. So these options are all under discussion, for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u151	That does not change my opinion of the amendment. Yeah, that's what you were afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u152	This brings us to the end of the first term. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. I see that's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Smeulders of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for answering the questions. I am pleased to see that there is much support in this Chamber for a much more extensive maternity leave. It hasn't always been that way. In my first term, I indicated that it does not go far enough as far as GroenLinks is concerned, but that we are very happy with this step and that I would like to give the members of the coalition a warm welcome to celebrate their party now. Let us make even more good proposals possible together. I have one motion, which is very sympathetic. So I look forward to the support for that. The motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that partners who take longer leave immediately after the birth of their child are later more involved in education;]] [[whereas some Dutch companies give maternity leave more than the Cradle Bill aims to;]] [[calls on the government to actively promote these good examples in order to encourage more companies to increase maternity leave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34967-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr. Chairman. This law is absolutely a step forward. There are two vulnerabilities in it, though. I named it. They concern the self-employed and lower incomes. I have tabled amendments to that effect. We'll see how that goes. There will also be a motion from my nameake Gijs van Dijk. I helped them to investigate this problem. In broad terms, I have the impression that this law will receive a great deal of support, including from the opposition. I hope the coalition marks that. We extend our hands to the coalition. Let that be an example, for example, if the opposition comes up with good proposals about payrolling. I'm just calling it a day, aren't I? To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is good to hear that he also recognizes the importance of the legal guaranteeing of multi-parent families and the possibility of doing so. But, yes, it would be so nice if it could get through the Chamber with some speed. As COC Nederland also says: we have been waiting for eight years. A rainbow ballot box agreement has now been signed by a lot of parties saying that it really has to come about now. Hence this encouraging motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that multi-parenting is not currently regulated by law;]] [[Whereas not all partners within multi-parent families are entitled to maternity leave;]] [[considers that all partners within a multi-parent family should be entitled to maternity leave as provided for in this law;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the legal protection of multi-parent families,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34967-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is just making haste. At least I assume that is the case, and that is why I am asking the Minister. I believe that this is already the case, because we have agreed this in the coalition agreement. I assume, with all due appreciation for the attempt at support, that it's just happening already. I do not think I need the motion for that either, I say in all friendship to my colleague. Mr. Chairman. I think this is a beautiful day. A very united Chamber, from left to right. Often we are divided on all kinds of subjects, but today we are actually united. If we're not about the tone and maybe... I understand that the SGP makes a slightly different choice, but I also see with them that they maintain an extension of partner leave even in their own amendment. It's not as spacious as I do and it's not as spacious as the cabinet does, but I see that I'm saying with a wink, even as a step forward. There is very broad support here to pull the Netherlands out of that shameful rearguard of two-day paid partner leave for fathers and co-mothers. The support is very broad. If I let this debate work on me like that, we are really going to take a big step. On January 1st we go to a week fully paid and then we go to six weeks because there are another five weeks. And I think that's good news, Mr President! I think that's very good news. I've been asking questions about the monitoring. That is what Mr Wiersma is about with a very broad motion signed. I have heard the Minister say good things about this too. I have drawn attention to the campaign and I have a commitment from the Minister on that. It is part of that and I do not need to make a motion on that. Let me end with a somewhat underexposed part, which the Minister and colleague De Jong also said something about. Those are the foster parents and the adoptive parents. That step from four to six weeks is a long-cherished wish of my group and I hope it will contribute to the attachment. Maybe it also contributes to the willingness. I think a lot of people want it at all and we're helping them to actually do it now. We are now going from the rear to the front in the middle, and I think that is a leap forward. I really hope that this can also be done very quickly through this house and through the Senate, so that we can make this leap forward, so I say with some pride on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u160	I heard Mr Van Weyenberg comment on my motion. He said he doesn't need it and has every confidence in the minister. Well, I'm happy about that. It is only meant as an encouragement, because the fact is that it is constantly being pushed out for us. A rainbow voting agreement has been reached. The COC but above all all all those single-parent families have been waiting for legal protection for years, far too long. The Animal Party therefore assumes that this encouraging motion will also receive the warm support of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u161	That wasn't really a question. I very much agree with Mrs Arissen that we have just talked about this when this happens, we also have the leave arrangements, which we are talking about today... Sorry, I mean Mrs. Van Kooten, excuse me; I have to get used to it now and then. It's really starting to go into the evening. If this is to happen, we must also ensure that the results of that investigation are included. Of course it has to be fast. I only fully assume that the minister who is working on it is carrying out a different mandate than this one. I like encouragement, but I don't think I need it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you. I'm looking at Mr. Heerma. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have a debate here in which there is consensus on the step forward, the leap forward. In doing so, it is remarkable to hear an opposition party say that going beyond its own electoral programme and then supporting it is an outstretched hand. At the same time, I have seen and appreciated the constructive input of various parties here, even if their own proposals went beyond what is being achieved here, because, for example, at GroenLinks and the SP, there is very clear recognition that it is indeed a leap forward. I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term response, as well as for his intention to look at how, for example, use is working and what the effect is on the position of women in the labour market, including in relation to pregnancy discrimination. Of course, he also referred to the plans that the Secretary of State is still coming up with. Pregnancy discrimination is one of the bigger problems in terms of discrimination in our labour market. I really hope that this bill will contribute indirectly to countering it. Then there's that sense of monitoring. There was a great consensus in this house that this bill is important, but at the same time everyone expressed the concern about how it works at the bottom. Therefore, my group also shares the motion that Mr Wiersma of the VVD will table to give the cabinet the extra push to monitor this really solidly and annually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. Over the last few weeks, we have had a lot of debates here, for example on dividend taxation and, before the summer, on pay dispensation. The coalition put forward proposals for this which are not good for the opposition at least. But this Wednesday evening, it's now evening, there's a nice left-progressive proposal from the coalition, and you can see: that's how you get us. So let this inspire the coalition. You keep making proposals like this, you're gonna be fine. Mr. Chairman. This is a really nice first step; that's what I mentioned in my first term. As far as we are concerned, we are going to continue to build in the coming years, because this is really crucial for families, but ultimately also for our labour market and the position of women in the labour market. So a nice first step, and let's all take steps again. However, I have expressed concerns about the group that falls under the social minimum. I know it's incredibly difficult to meet that group, because it wouldn't be feasible. However, I would like to call on this Minister to make a real effort to examine, for example, the possibilities in the municipalities, which we have just discussed in the debate, perhaps through special assistance. That's why I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some families fall below the social minimum by taking partner leave;]] [[noting that partners with lower incomes spend relatively the least time on the first steps of their child;]] [[Whereas we want to make sure that everyone can see their child growing up;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to prevent partners from falling below the social minimum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34967-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u167	There are still questions from Mr Van Weyenberg on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u168	Did I just hear Mr Gijs van Dijk say that he wants to make sure that "every child can see his child growing up" or did I not hear him correctly? I assume he's talking about the parents. Right? Is it wrong in the motion or was it the enthusiasm about Mr Van Dijk's children?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u169	I think it was the time, but I'll check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. If you get a compliment from D66 in a somewhat ideologically charged debate like SGP, then you start to doubt it a bit! But I've always learned that if you get a compliment, you have to accept that in gratitude. Thanks for that, then. We grant everyone, every partner, every father, every leave he deserves. But we also feel that this is at the expense of companies, especially small ones. So we're really taking this one step too far. Of course, you never know what will happen again in the future, but it is a step too far for us now. We had therefore tabled our amendment very consciously. It is a pity that that does not work, because then we would have sort of aligned it in Europe, I think. But it's clear. In addition, the Minister talks about the work-life balance. That's wonderful, but I kind of miss the work-lifecycle balance. It is a pity that we do not get along in terms of mourning leave. I believe that this is why I have to table a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the death of loved ones is a major event in personal life;]] [[noting that, contrary to the extended arrangements for post-birth leave, the law does not provide for leave after the funeral;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal for a mourning leave scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34967-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr President, thank you. What a reconciliation tonight. That's special, isn't it? It also fits with birth, so that's nice. A number of special things also came along: personal situations, hands that are stretched out. That's a nice base. So we're going home tonight with a good feeling, even though I didn't get to put my daughter to bed, but we'll catch up. Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said about how this is going to unpack. The only way to find out is to do it and then see what it gets. The Minister has already said a number of things about this, about the income groups, about the burden burden, about obstacles that we can face. He also said he wanted to start a monitor for that. But it is good, I think, to encourage him to do so, to be able to check the concerns that play here regularly by how things work out in practice. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the objectives set out in the legislative proposal, namely the link between partner and child, a balanced distribution of care tasks and the participation of women in the labour market are important;]] [[Whereas arrangements to facilitate work and care should be as effective as possible;]] [[considers that it is important to identify early any obstacles to taking leave;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the use of both extended maternity leave and supplementary maternity leave for the partner, taking into account the different income groups, the burden burden, possible obstacles and to inform the Court annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders, Mr Stoffer and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34967-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u173	I am particularly looking forward to the coming years and how this will work out in practice. I hope that practice will not only keep waiting for this kind of legislative proposal, but also take matters into its own hands and that discussions will take place at the kitchen table and at the workplace. In that context, I would like to congratulate you on the name. I've had to think a long time about what I could say to that. I found that very complicated. I didn't get any further than teen, talking together and making my own decisions, and then I muffled in the b as well. But it is in the Acts and it is a nice combination, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thank you very much. This was a very nice last sentence. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u175	I shall reopen the sitting and give the floor immediately to the Minister for reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Chamber. I think it is a great evening, because together, with broad support, we can make a big leap forward. Thanks for the input and for the questions asked. I do, indeed, feel broad support for this bill, and that is good. In that spirit, I'm going to deal with the motions. The outstretched hand referred to by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk, I am going to do right by the motion in part No. 13, which calls on the government to actively promote good examples, to give judgement to Chambers and to participate in the campaign How does the Netherlands work? With that, the outstretched hand is already ready. No, that was a joke. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Van Kooten-Arissen, Smeulders and Gijs van Dijk. I think that's a complicated motion. To be honest, the cabinet does not need an incentive in developing the investigations on multiparenthood. The motion also anticipates these investigations and the cabinet response. I do not think it is the right place to table this motion either, because it is done by Mr Dekker and I am also looking at the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Security. That is why I would advise against this motion. Otherwise, I suggest we discuss the motion at another committee. I don't recommend this one. The motion in part No. I think 15 is a complicated motion, so I say in all honesty. Over the last few months, when drafting the bill, we have looked at a great many variants to ensure that we reach and compensate the group of 4,000 people potentially below the social minimum. In all the variants we have looked at, we encounter the complexity, the feasibility and the persistence, all the arguments I have already mentioned. I think it's a nice motion, but it suggests something I can't live up to right now. Against this background, and also against the background of Mr Wiersma's motion on item No. 17 I note that I have already promised today that we will monitor these developments and see exactly what is happening there. Because we have specifically included in the legislative proposal the flexibility to include it gradually over those six months, we want to see what is happening there first. Although I am sympathetic to the motion, I must dissuade it, because it creates a suggestion that I cannot make at the moment, to my regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u177	I would like to make another suggestion to the Minister. There will indeed be another motion, which is widely supported by the Chamber, to monitor this with all kinds of target groups. It is important for us to see how this group is doing. Then there may be a moment when it is found that it is really not going well, that the group is left behind and that you have to do something. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u178	Then I think it is a good suggestion in the motion in part No. 17 from Mr Wiersma, and also from you, to monitor and map what is happening there. I'll be right back with a specific reaction to that. If that leads to new insights, then we have to look at them anyway. Very once, but in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u179	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u180	I think it is important that, if we now deal with the law and see that it is precisely a group with a small wallet that can get into the tribulation, we mark here that it may be that we are going to adapt it in the future. Not now, because all kinds of possibilities have been explored. If we don't do that now, I feel like I'm gonna be right. I hope not, and then we'll talk about it again. To put it ugly: I'm looking for a hook to keep an eye on this and keep an eye on it so that it can lead to adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u181	In my opinion, that is what Mr Wiersma cum suis says in his motion. It states that: "The government is asking to monitor the use of both extended maternity leave and supplementary maternity leave for partners, taking into account the different income groups "This is what this discussion is about, both at the bottom and at the top, to inform the Chamber annually about the burden, possible obstacles. This is part of the monitoring and evaluation cycle. In this sense, Mr Gijs van Dijk may be reassured by this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u182	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr President, it is not my own motion, so it is a little unusual. I have heard the Minister say earlier, also in response to the letter of amendment, that he looked very hard and found nothing and that if he had found something that was feasible, workable and affordable, he would probably have done something with it. I have at least taken that comfort out of the answer and perhaps Mr Gijs van Dijk too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u184	That is not really a question for the Minister, but I shall give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u185	I have just explained this in detail in the first period. I have also explained it in the reply to this motion. Now comes Mr Gijs van Dijk, which is entrapment on my part. Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u186	Short, because we still have a long night to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u187	With this change, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u188	At the request of Mr Gijs van Dijk, I propose his motion (34967, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u189	Then there are the motions on the items Nos. 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u190	The motion in part No. Mr Stoffer's 16th report deals with mourning leave. We have had a little debate on this this evening, but reference has also been made to the note on the report. The cabinet has no intentions in this direction, and that is why I must also advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 17. That's right, we were just talking about a very broad motion: Wiersma, Pieter Heerma, Van Weyenberg, Bruins, Gijs van Dijk, Smeulders, Stoffer and Jasper van Dijk. I very much agree with the proposers that the effects should be properly reflected. It is indeed about effectiveness, the scope and the other elements mentioned in the motion, both for the income groups and also for the burdens on businesses and the possible obstacles that arise in practice. There's something I'm looking for. The motion requests that the Chamber be informed annually. Just in my first term, I have already indicated that the CBS has a two-year cycle, in particular on leave forms. I understand very well that you want to be informed on a regular basis. So give me some time to see how this can be done, for example by joining the CBS leave monitor. For example, UWV has no information about family composition and that is of course very relevant in this discussion about income groups. So if this can be done in that way, and I do want to do justice to your Chamber's information request, I'd like to give her Chamber's judgment. She's also well signed, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u191	I am looking for a response from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u192	It's a request from the Chamber. I can't talk to seven colleagues at the same time, but I think it's very good. The Minister sees it as an encouragement to do so. He tries to get as close to the Chamber as possible to the broad wish of the Chamber to receive and update information regularly. Wherever we can, we want it to be annual and as soon as possible, but he indicates that he needs to take a look at it. Yeah, I get that. I trust that the Minister will follow this up as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u193	Yes. We take note of this and we are going to do so. There's also nodding from the official's lodge, so that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u194	An adequate supply of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u195	Yeah, adequate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u196	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-9.u197	The vote on the legislative proposal, on the motions for resolutions and on the amendments will take place next Tuesday.
