ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the farewell to Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks. I shall begin with Mr Grashoff's letter. "Dear President, dear Khadija. I would like to say that I will leave the Chamber on Thursday 7 June. From the end of November 2016, a love relationship between party president Marjolein Meijer and me gradually developed. We weren't looking for that at all. It happened under complicated circumstances, both in private and in work relations. In doing so, I have made major mistakes, which have ultimately damaged the confidence of political groups and parties. I'm so sorry. The consequence can only be that I lay down my function, with pain in the heart, but I can look myself right in the mirror. The constant in all of this is my partner I've been with for 22 years. Having said all this, I would like to thank everyone in the Chamber for their good cooperation. I've always done my job here with great pleasure and motivation. In particular, the in-depth, substantive tasks, such as my participation in the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial System, the own-initiative papers Beautiful Netherlands and Weidevogels and the Commission Breed concept of prosperity, spring out to me. This is always about the game and the marbles in the Chamber. In front of me were the marbles, the results with which I could bring a more sustainable and fairer society a small step closer, always at the forefront. Whether it is the partial ban on arthropods, biodiversity care, grazing birds, education for refugee children or on broad prosperity. The speed of the game has never been good for me. I'd like to argue for a little more slow politics. In this context, I would have liked to be involved in the recently launched Van der Staaij working group. I hope that it will be possible to find a new balance in the weighting between giving stage to political profiling on the one hand and the most effective functioning of the Chamber on the other. With great respect and appreciation for all of you and for our work here as a representative of the people. Rik Grashoff."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	Dear Mr. Grashoff, dear Rik. We often say it: no day is the same in politics. But today is the day you didn't want this one to come. A day that overwhelms us all. Today you say goodbye abruptly. Yesterday you were in the middle of it: you received a petition for a better train connection between Amsterdam and Berlin, you just agreed and in the afternoon you spoke during a general discussion about the future of our food. All subjects close to your heart. The reason for your departure is very painful, but today we are mostly considering your departure as a driven MP. You deserve that. You were not only a spokesperson for agriculture, but you also had a special interest in the financial world. You took your place in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Financial System. Later you were the chairman of a committee of inquiry, the temporary committee of Breed prosperity concept. Only you could explain what that meant. It took you a lot of trouble to get the committee members along and sometimes also to make the importance of the investigation clear. But that worked out. To your great pleasure, therefore, the term "wide concept of prosperity" was given a permanent place in our parliamentary dictionary. You're a real Delft engineer. You think fast, but you don't always manage to convey those thoughts directly to us. Then it was often up to us, but especially to the stenographers, the stenographers had more trouble, I think, to understand the meaning of your long sentences. That wasn't a small job, I can tell you. You were able to bridge the gap between the engineer's figures and the real world we live in. Now you must unwittingly and unwantedly say goodbye to the lively existence in the Chamber. This also means the end of your daily ride on Delft's bike along the Vliet to the Binnenhof. Because no matter how late the Chamber debates became and how bad the weather was, you took your trusted, fast KOGA every day and drove to and from work in half an hour. This commuters was a little personal politics. Because, like you said, it saves another spot in traffic or on the train. Your goodbyes aren't the way you wanted them to be. It's also a farewell to which your group is deeply upset, and I think your constituents too. I hope for you and your surroundings that there will be peace after this nasty week. I also wish you that your fast bike will soon take you to a new destination, where you can continue your career, play the game again and achieve social results. Take care, Rik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments. Of course that is for the congratulations, but also for saying goodbye to Rik Grashoff.
