ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is General Political Reviews. I would like to welcome everyone: the Members in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. I would also like to welcome the members of the cabinet. Today we are discussing the first term of office. As in the case of the budget, the spokesman of the largest opposition party first comes, followed by a member of the coalition party. The Prime Minister will be speaking on Friday. He will answer the questions of the Chamber. As you know, this year is on Friday and not on the usual Thursday, because the Prime Minister will be present tomorrow at the European Summit. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President, thank you very much. Do you feel up to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	Very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Let's get started, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	That seems to me to be a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	That's it. Mr President, may I begin with a point of order, although it is not really before we begin this debate? Because there's something that has really disturbed me this summer. That is what a group of us find here and has said that Dutch people should "get the hell out of their own country"................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is what Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group said. That's how the mask fell off. So that's the real agenda of the DENK gang: The Dutch have to get the hell out of their own country. So it has already come to this end with the state of the Netherlands. In our Parliament are the gentlemen of DENK, dressed in a neat suit, who say that we Dutch should get the hell out of here, who, and therefore, want us to be strangers in our own country. I would like to say to Mr Kuzu: get the hell out of here. You don't belong here. You are the poison of this society and of this democracy. This is our country. This is not your country. Your country is Turkey. This is the Netherlands. Get out of here, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	I was wondering what the order proposal is and if we're going to vote on it or something. I don't think that's in there, and I don't think that's convenient. First of all, I said very clearly that people who think that young people born and raised here should pick up or get the hell out of here can take their own as far as I am concerned. Mr Wilders is the living example of this. Mr Wilders always presents himself as the guardian of freedom. Recently he organized a drawing competition in which he called people worldwide to send cartoons to insult people, Muslims, to the bone. Mr. Wilders, then I wonder: how can you set yourself up as the guardian of freedom if you want to ban political parties, if you want to close mosques, if you want to ban Korans, if you want to fire judges, if you want to ban your own cartoons? Then how can you stand up as a guardian of freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	It's not about whether you believe I'm the guardian of freedom. I assure you that a large part of the Dutch people have problems with multicultural society. It is a matter of urgency, and that has been my point, to say to those people: if you find that and if you have a problem with that, then get the hell out of your own country. That's not digestible. This is not your country. Turkey is your country, if that's what you think. If we are in Turkey and we do not like it, you can also tell us to get the hell out of Turkey. But we are here in the Netherlands and the Netherlands is our country. You don't have anyone to tell him to fuck off if he doesn't agree with multicultural society. We already had a minister, Minister Blok, who had to withdraw his words because he said something. I'm not about the cabinet, but I'm about all those Dutch people, all those people who rightly have problems with that. I'm not gonna let you put these people away, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Wilders does not decide in this country who is Dutch and who is not. I'm a Dutch citizen. I am a Dutch parliamentarians. Whether Mr Wilders likes it or not. But what he's doing here is actually symptomatic of the PVV's behaviour over the last 12 years. Mr Wilders' mask falls off for the umpteenth time. He doesn't care about Islam as an ideology. It's the people he cares about. The generation, Mr. Wilders, has changed. The generation has become more powerful. These people won't be put away by people like you anymore. They have their own will, they have an opinion and they claim their position in Dutch society. I would particularly like to say to you: get used to that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	Today we are discussing the Millions Note 2019. The cabinet knocks on the chest. In the newspapers we read cheer story after cheer story. They shout in choir: how is the Netherlands doing well. But, Mr President, the Netherlands of Mark Rutte is not doing well at all. In his Netherlands, citizens have to keep their mouths shut and the referendum has been abolished. In his Netherlands, a minister who speaks the truth about multicultural society must take back his words in order to remain on the plush. In his Netherlands, lying and cheating asylum seekers still get a residence permit. In his Netherlands, terrorists in Syria are supported. In his Netherlands, Shell and Unilever receive billions instead of reducing rents or health insurance. In his Netherlands, judges give a 38-year-old Afghan asylum seeker who rapes a disabled girl a lower sentence to prevent this asylum seeker from losing his residence permit. The Netherlands of Mark Rutte, Madam President, the Netherlands of Mark Rutte, is a sick country, is a sick country. Of course, and fortunately, there is also another Netherlands. That is the Netherlands of ordinary men and women, of people who, if they can do that, want to enjoy their future or their retirement, of people who are worried about the future of their children and who are increasingly fed up with that lying Dutchman who calls himself Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet not only calls out "the Netherlands is doing well," it also shouts "yes, everyone is getting better in his wallet." But the question remains: what are people going to find in their wallets after years of burdens and cuts in economic growth? One euro per day on average, and then I'm talking about the median, as it's called, about the modal income, which is what Rutte promises them now, after they've been caught by him for years. A euro. The Nibud says: on average a euro. People often get even less. That's a handout! That's a ruse. And even in there, there are so huge differences. If you make two tons of money, Prime Minister Rutte will get you up to $128 a month. But if you're under a morale and if you make $30,000 in two, you're ahead of it. So the difference per year between someone who makes two tons and someone who earns €30,000 is €1,600 per year. That's what Prime Minister Rutte does! Mr. Chairman. Those fatheads of the VVD, because that's what they are, are also spending billions to reduce the tax on profits, to abolish the dividend tax. Dismissal board, chairman. Pure maladministration. Everyone knows that over the last two years we've had an economy that grew by about 3%. And next year we'll be close to that 3% again. This means that the Netherlands has become almost 10% richer in the last two years and next year. And that Dutchman gets a euro a day back from Rutte or even hundreds of euros go backwards. Mr. Chairman. This shows that this Rutte III cabinet lives in a paper reality. A reality of average Dutch. A reality of stacks of detailed files with beautiful graphs. And Prime Minister Rutte also likes to sell us, in addition to his usual lies, fiction, because the reality for the people at home, of course, looks very different. In 2017, Rutte promised us 1% more purchasing power. That was 0.3% in the books. Meanwhile, we know that the purchasing power of half of the Dutch people was reduced. So people haven't improved, they've gotten worse. People remember that, those lies of yours, Mr. Rutte. And for this year, 2018, he first promised 0.6%. That too has now been adjusted downwards: to 0.4%. And so for next year it's supposed to be the euro of one and a half percent. And that too is very uncertain. If wages rise slightly less than that 3%, or if inflation fails, even the euro disappears like snow for the sun. But what people know is what is definitely happening, what people are sure to face, is that next year's VAT increase will make the messages more expensive. People also know and notice that the care premium for a couple increases by €240. People are also sure that the energy bill will be €150 more expensive and that, as every year, the rents will go up again. Everything's getting more expensive. And what they know for sure is that Rutte's promises are worth nothing at all. Rutte, no one believes him. He double-crosses every year. It is a shame that, in one of the richest countries in Europe, our own people have been short for years because they have been fooled for decades. Those aren't people doing crazy things with their money. Those are the ordinary Dutch, who rise up every day to go to work and take care of the children. Whether they can't, can't work, and depend on the care. People who may not like it, but at least pay their taxes again every month and occasionally want to do something nice with their families. Those people notice that it takes more effort every month to pay their rent on time. The visit to the doctor is being postponed more and more often. Once with the whole family to an amusement park there is not often anymore. And for their well-earned pension, which is often no longer indexed, they also have to wait longer and longer. 'Cause they're all taking the fall for Rutte III's wrong choices. After all, the money for all those lucky seekers and multinationals has to come from somewhere. And why, Mr. Chairman? I'm sure a lot of people at home are wondering why is Prime Minister Rutte doing that? Why doesn't after years of burden and austerity that ordinary man and woman, who is concerned about his family and working hard, just really take advantage of economic growth? Why do these people only get a euro in their bank account after all the burden increases? No one gets that. Is it because there's not enough money? No, because there's plenty of money. When we look at the budget, we see billions being thrown over every year, which nobody is waiting for. Then we also see that there is even a surplus of more than EUR 8 billion. A surplus of EUR 8 billion in taxpayers' money! Money that doesn't belong to Mr. Rutte. That money was raised by those hardworking Dutch, who make that money, who want to see that money back, who want to see it right now. Mr. Chairman. If we in this country have the guts to really make different choices, then we could do so many beautiful things for those Dutch. But those who are there in box K make different choices. Let me mention a few choices they make. For example, this cabinet chooses to pay 600,000 non-Western immigrants 7 billion euros per year. A lot of people don't know that, but in the Netherlands, we pay 7 billion euros each year only in benefits for 600,000 non-western immigrants. That's more than we spend on the whole police in a whole year. I am not even talking about money that we are throwing over by the 10,000 Poles who shamelessly cheat on our unemployment benefits. But there's more choices we don't need. They in Box K opt for more than EUR 4 billion per year in development aid for Africa. Every year, they girar 8 billion euros to Brussels. And next year, that's how we read in the pieces, even 300 million more. Every year they spend billions on bullshit subsidies, such as climate policy or public service broadcasting. And if that's not enough, I said it before, and this cabinet also chooses not to help the people, but to do something about the profit tax of multinationals and abolishing the dividend tax. Unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. If you add all that together, you have tens of billions of euros. Then you have tens of billions of euros that are being squandered every year, given away to everyone except the Dutchman who is having such a hard time right now, except the Dutchman who has been squeezed out in recent years. Money is just being thrown away because wrong choices are being made. What kind of country are we living in? What kind of country do we live in, where also elderly people often don't have a penny left in their bank account. 23% of pensioners are already in trouble if the care premium increases by a tenner, which is what is going to happen. People also refrain from caring, while on the other hand they have been chosen to give asylum seekers everything for free. Mr. Chairman. The other day in the newspaper De Limburger was the story of the 82-year-old Mrs Jannie van Dorp, who hasn't been to the dentist for years because she can't afford it anymore. She can also not afford more than two hot meals a week. She doesn't have any money for new clothes and she doesn't even have a few euros to entertain her old clothes. I'm so ashamed to live in a country like this. A prime minister who bleeds his own people, his own elders, while he takes half the world and bacon, who doesn't deserve to be Prime Minister of this beautiful country, does he? With the billions that Rutte and his friends pump away from spending every year, we could do so much better for this country. We could actually reduce taxes, we could undo the VAT increase, we could have lower instead of higher energy costs, lower rents, no personal risk in the care, you name it. Finally, finally, money again. And real money, not a euro a day in the wallet for the people. Finally something to spend after years of being used by Rutte as a milk cow. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore time to really move the beacons. Domestic expenditure, that's what I want to see; not foreign expenditure, but domestic expenditure, investing in the people here. In our society, instead of abroad. Money for an affordable care for the people, instead of for all those immigrants. Money for our pensioners, instead of development aid for Africa. Money for the Dutch, instead of for the multinationals. Radically different choices: that's what these General Reviews are for. Radically different choices: that's what we need. I also realise, of course, that this is difficult with this Prime Minister, because the new Netherlands will not be there until we restore what he has destroyed. Mr. Chairman. For next year we could make some other choices. We could make a start with that big story of other choices, if we have the guts. Because I think that next year the Dutch families will earn more than the few crumbs in the wallet that this cabinet gives them. So use 6 or 7 billion of that 8 billion surplus. Then we'll still have a surplus. With this 6 billion, we will be able to reverse the VAT increase for next year at least, so that the groceries do not become more expensive. With that 6 billion, we can cut the rents by 15%, so those families can get some air back. We can prevent the increase in health insurance for next year. These are all concrete things that Dutch people are waiting for, that Dutch people need and that Dutch people deserve. Mr. Chairman. What Dutch people deserve is that the Netherlands remains the Netherlands, that our beautiful country is not given away by the supporters of multicultural society, that Islam is reduced, that we no longer serve the Netherlands on a tray to profiteers and anyone who wants it. We see it every day: that lying and cheating asylum seekers get a residence permit anyway. We see it every day: that years of open borders lead to more Islamization, that our sovereignty, our identity, is thrown too gibberish. The Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I warned you about it. I warned you about it. Fourteen years ago, I got out of the VVD for a lot of reasons. But an important reason was that that party then wanted to start negotiations with Turkey, as the Netherlands, as the European Union, in order for Turkey to become a member of that European Union. A historical mistake I couldn't take care of. I said it then in 2004, and I say it now: Turkey is an enemy of Europe, an Islamic dictatorship, led by a very dangerous man named Erdogan. Many Turks in the Netherlands support him, even vote for him. In the meantime, the cabinet is also in favour of the regime of that man, who called our people fascists and Nazis last year. Mr. Chairman. Fourteen years ago, I also asked for the closure of mosques, such as the El-Tawheed mosque in Amsterdam, the Al-Fourqaan mosque in Eindhoven and so many other hate palaces. I warned the Chamber then, too. I have had countless debates and put questions to the House, but nothing happened. As it turns out, the El-Tawheed mosque hosted ISIS-goers and terrorists. The Al-Fourqaan mosque would have financed the terrorist organisation Al-Shabaab. Mr. Chairman. Almost every day, for 14 years, I have warned against the enormous dangers of Islam. It's cost me my personal freedom for almost 14 years. I warned with conviction about the consequences of open borders, about immigration. As a group, we have had reports on the cost of this. The conclusion is that Islam does not belong to the Netherlands, that Islam equals freedom, intolerance, hatred and terror. I told you then, but nobody listened. All these years, nothing or nothing has been done to stop this Islamization. There's no mosque closed. There's no imam turned off. No foreign funding has stopped. There's no line closed. Nothing happened at all. On the contrary, Islamization is only further facilitated. The financing of mosques from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States has even been under the carpet for years. It looks away when it is said in a mosque in Tilburg that anyone who does not see Sharia as the only and legitimate law is a renegade and is subject to the death penalty. That's said in Tilburg in a mosque. There is silence when a preacher in Utrecht says that stoning and throwing buildings of adulterers is good for society. This is simply said in a mosque in Utrecht. And no one's gonna do anything. Everyone's thinking, "Okay, let them do it." Mr. Chairman. Terrorists, Syrians, can simply return from this cabinet to the Netherlands. How crazy can you be? How many times have we warned you about that? Thousands of jihadists and sympathizers of them are now walking freely in our streets. Tens of thousands can simply enter our country from other countries through the open borders to commit acts of terror here. We've warned you a thousand times. How the hell is that still happening? Now the Dutch Government even appears to actively support terrorist groups in Syria, despite our urgent request not to do so. How is it possible that as a Dutch government you support terrorists in Syria? Rutte III appears to be terror I. The terrorists' biggest friends are there, in trade-K. Almost every week in Europe innocent people are stabbed by Muslims. The number of attacks in Europe by Islam supporters has been virtually uncountable over the last ten years, let alone the many innocent victims. And no one's gonna do anything about it. Only more Islam is imported every day. I say to everyone in Vak-K and to all those others who have put their heads in the sand: you weaklings, you weaklings, you politically correct doing nothing has caused the Netherlands nothing but misery. Because you are afraid of so-called politically incorrect but firm measures and because you have no guts, the Netherlands and the Dutch are now in danger, as they long for security. Tell me honestly, who in the Netherlands has ever asked for so much Islam in this country? Who ever asked for 1 million Muslims, for nearly 500 mosques, for halal slaughter, for countless headscarves in our streets and shops, for Islam terror, for Moroccan street terror, for tens of thousands of asylum seekers a year, for billions of expenses to foreigners, for open borders? Who? Who has ever asked for this in the Netherlands? When it comes to abolishing the dividend tax, which is also not included in the programme by any party, there is someone here every week, not even unjustly, to ask where the secret memos are and whether there are mysterious notes. But in what election programme did it actually say that the Netherlands should be given away? Where's the fuss? Where is the indignation here in the Chamber about losing our country? I don't think any Dutchman has asked for his country to be lost. And yet it happens. Then what do we live in a fake democracy if something happens that nobody in this country really wants. Mr. Chairman. I had the honour of visiting Urk a while ago. A beautiful Dutch municipality with an impressive fishing monument of a fishermen's wife who has lost her love at sea. This year exactly half a century ago it was revealed by our then Queen Juliana. There are hundreds of names of fathers and sons who gave their lives to their families: the real heroes of Urk, but also the true heroes of the Netherlands. These men have made our country great and prosperous. But I wonder what they died for. What have all these generations been working for, plowing and suffering? What did our parents have to work blood, sweat and tears for? Not to throw away our land and our prosperity, is it? Not to make the Netherlands a takeaway window for Muslims, is it? Not to import Islam terror, is it? Not to make the Netherlands a province of the European Union? No, they struggled because they wanted the Netherlands to be more beautiful and better, and because they wanted to leave a better and more beautiful country for their children and grandchildren. And look at what the Prime Minister has done with this fantastic legacy: he threw it away. He's wasted it with his open borders. The Dutch, and a lot of people who are now watching television, now feel less and less at home and feel more and more like a stranger in their own country. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands. In our three major cities, young people under 25 have almost reached the majority of non-westerns. In Amsterdam, our capital city, there is even one in three young people under 15 years of Dutch descent. Just a moment, and we are the ones who need to integrate into our own country. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, as if it weren't enough, Prime Minister Rutte has let some 400,000 non-Western immigrants into the country over the past five years, often people with anti-Western sentiments. 400,000 non-Western immigrants have let Prime Minister Rutte in the last five years. That is a city as big as Utrecht, full of only non-Western immigrants. Have you lost your mind, Prime Minister Rutte? What's the point of facilitating this invasion? Mr. Chairman. It will only get worse in the coming decades, because the population of Africa is exploding. The consequences for the Dutch people will be dramatic. According to the United Nations, the population of Africa will grow from 1 billion people now to at least 4 billion Africans by the end of this century. Many of them will, of course, want to come to Europe. And many will also come from Islamic countries. And the Netherlands, thanks to this Prime Minister's policy, has become one of the most popular destinations for lucky seekers. Mr. Chairman. You don't have to be a mathematical genius to see that that would mean the end of Europe and the end of the Netherlands. If we allow that to happen, we will indeed become that minority in our own country. And a lot of people know exactly what I'm talking about, because a lot of people, especially in our big cities, already feel a minority in their own streets or in their own neighbourhood. Therefore, if we want the Netherlands to remain the Netherlands and the Netherlands to become the Dutch again, then it is time for real measures, for great steps. Then we must start by getting out of that totalitarian European Union like a hare and becoming a sovereign country over our own borders and our own immigration policy, so that we can close the borders for asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries. But the most important thing is that we have to de-islamize our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	In itself, the story of Mr Wilders is not new. He also recalled "fourteen years" and nothing much has changed in those fourteen years. But the world around us has changed. And Mr Wilders is now talking about becoming independent: we need to get out of the European Union. I wonder if he is aware of the fact that Britain has been working on this since 2016, and that it is a great tragedy. So how can he, after England in 2016, insist that the Netherlands should still go that way and that that would be good for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Buma said at first that not much has changed in 14 years. The overall thrust of my story is that nothing has changed when it comes to policy, because of people like you, who have not listened to the PVV, who have been warning about these open borders for 14 years, about that Islamization and about that terror. And in fourteen years it has thus deteriorated considerably in the Netherlands. For the past five years alone, 400,000 non-Western immigrants have joined. So unfortunately, unfortunately! It has gotten a lot worse in this country in the last 14 years, because you haven't listened. And when it comes to the Brexit, I'm sure I can see what's happening. And yet I am very much in favour of a nexit: the Netherlands leaving the European Union. We also had a report made a few years ago by a British agency. That did show that it hurts at first. Anyone who says they're not, they're joking. That hurts at first. But after a few years, the sun shines. And after a number of years, it is not only economically better, but it is also the country in charge of its own immigration policy. That could be the Netherlands. That could be the Netherlands. We could have the key to our own front door again. You know, Mr. Buma, everyone at home has the key to their own front door, decides when guests come in and when to go. We no longer have that key because we are members of the European Union. We cannot decide who and what we allow in because of European Union directives. I want that key back. And I'm telling you, if we don't and we let half of Africa in, we're a hundred thousand times worse off than the Netherlands leaving the European Union and the sun can shine again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	Firstly, about the last 14 years, because Mr Wilders has come to my side with this too. Then he forgets one thing, that in those fourteen years there have also been a number of years that Mr Wilders was responsible. That might not have been a good time for the PVV but there was, in which all these figures have not changed at all. So it doesn't matter if the PVV is in or out. That's the first thing. The second is about the Brexit. Is it a hard nexit you want or a soft nexit you want? Because we also know since that choice of 2016 that there are enormous consequences for the country what you do next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr. Chairman. We want a nexit that takes care of it... That is also the difference we have with the British, we would not want to pursue the hard Brexit, and indeed the British do not want to. Above all, we would like to continue to be able to trade with the European Union if we succeed. There must be treaties for this, just as the United Kingdom is doing now. But we do want, and that is the most important thing, to be sovereign over our own money again and to be sovereign over our own immigration policy. Mr President, Mr Buma mentioned the PVV which would have ruled for two years. It is good that you say it, because then I can explain to the people at home how that went. We had made about a deal at the time, which we said: the PVV will support a number of measures in the financial and economic field. We got a few things in return for that. One of those things we got back for that, in addition to minimum penalties and extra money for care for the elderly, the Agema money, was a stricter immigration policy. That was the deal. You would help us as a tolerating party to a stricter immigration policy. Then came Minister Leers, from your party, who went all over Europe. He went off all the countries to see if he could tighten the rules. But I couldn't, Mr. Buma. Those two years that we tolerated that cabinet was the best proof that it is impossible to adapt, to tighten up an immigration policy within the European Union. Rutte I proved it. From that moment on, I was 100% sure: we must leave the European Union. And if that costs anything, it always gets more money in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	Finally. You have not said 'I want to leave the European Union', because you say 'I want to trade the same as you could'. That is the problem that England is facing, which means that one cannot get out of it. I really think that if you have used such big words and used them about 'we have to leave the European Union' and then ends with something completely different, then that is unbelievable. You are not saying 'we must leave the European Union', you are saying 'we do not want that currency'. That is from the euro but in the European Union. There are many countries that do not have the euro, you can choose, I am not for it, but you can choose. "I don't want those open borders." Then you're leaving Schengen. I'm not for that, but I can. But you want all the benefits of the European Union, all the trade. That's exactly where the spokesmen are. So I do think you should be honest. Or you want a hard nexit, think about how much bureaucracy we're going to get, just for trading with England. All borders in the Netherlands will have thousands of customs officials, kilometres of asphalt for trucks thanks to the PVV, but you do not want to say what it is going to be for the Netherlands. It's a choice. If you are so tough 'from Europe, hard nextit', then it is with all the consequences. That agency you had just didn't foresee all this either. Nexit or not is the choice now, and not in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u16	That desk's got it all figured out. That agency has even devoted chapters to what that means in the short term and what it costs. It has also calculated that, in the long term, it will bring us additional economic growth if we do not have to contribute to the euro at that time, we also gave billions to countries like Greece, billions that we will never see again, and to the European Union. The contribution to the European Union is now 8.5 billion a year. Of course I want to trade too. So does the United Kingdom. Despite a so-called hard Brexit, the United Kingdom also wants trade agreements to be introduced. That's what we want. It is also in the interests of the rest of Europe to conclude trade agreements with the United Kingdom. Politicians who threaten and say "the British are in bad shape and they will get a bad deal," shoot in their own foot. The United Kingdom is the second or third trading partner, including the Netherlands, of most European countries. If we give them a bad deal, we're not gonna get the British, but we're gonna get ourselves. The same applies to the Netherlands, with its unique location, with the port of Rotterdam, as Germany's landing country. Every country in Europe will also want to sign a treaty with the Netherlands when it comes to a hard nextit, because otherwise they will only suffer from it themselves. So it's only profit if we do that. The most important thing is that we get our sovereignty back, the key to our own front door. And we can send back all those Muslims you let in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u17	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u18	I can only conclude that you continue to tell the fairy tales you've been telling for 14 years. Since what happened in England, we know how bad it is. It would be good if you looked into this and outlined for the Dutch people a future that would provide jobs, security and a pension for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: no less than 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that the Islamic rules go above the Dutch laws. 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands reject our laws and choose Sharia in the Netherlands, for hate for Jews, for hate for women, for hate for Christians, for hate for homosexuals. 70% is a majority. So we do not have, as people are trying to tell us, just a problem with just a few extremist Muslims. No, we have a mega problem with the majority of Muslims in the Netherlands. 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands say that the Islamic rules, i.e. Sharia, are more important than the laws that make us democratic here. That's why we need to get rid of Islam. Soft healers have made stinking wounds. You see it on the street every day. De-Islamicisation is therefore a matter of survival. That's not hate. That's pure self-preservation. That's love for the Netherlands. Love for our own country. Love for our freedom. Mr. Chairman. I can present you with some pride but also with great urgency an initiative proposal to ban Islamic expressions in the Netherlands. It is the first time such a bill has been tabled in a Western country. I hope there will be many countries following. Here too, the PVV will eventually get it right on its side. This is also about banning Islamic schools. Who wants to raise young children in a world of hatred, superiority and violence? Mosques, the Qur'an, burqas, nikabs in public space, get away with it. Let us strengthen our rule of law by banning the expression of an ideology that puts Sharia above the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr Buma said the story of Wilder's sleet. Still doesn't get used to it. A party that is a big fan of Putin, Orbán and other quasi-dictators who do not take it seriously with freedom, is proposing to ban expressions. To ban expressions because they don't like Wilders. It is not a question of criminal expression, we can go after it, and we must do something about it, but about expressions that Wilders do not like. Wilders' freedom is unfreedom for many. He has authoritarian leaders as an example. Delete the word "freedom" from that name. He has as an example: authoritarian leaders. Delete freedom from that name. This has nothing to do with love for the Netherlands, only love for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u21	I am very pleased with this interruption, because this bill protects our freedom. This bill makes sure that an ideology that says that people who are not Islamic, people who want to leave Islam, you know that there is a death penalty on it, people who are non-Muslim, Christian, gay, Jewish, or whatever, at best, can be treated as second-class citizens. An ideology that says 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that the Sharia, which is about stoning, cutting off hands and even more, where the women of an inheritance get half of what men get is more important than the Dutch law is being addressed. At the moment when we allow that to get bigger and do what your party, with nine more seats, has done over the past few decades, talking about sluts, let in all those people, if we continue to do so, we will lose our freedom. That's why this isn't a bill of hatred, it's a bill of love, a bill of freedom. Love for our freedom. That is what we must do to protect our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u22	I was thinking, "Where's your bowl?" Because it's very predictable. Another round? Mr Wilders has indeed been doing the same for 20 years. He's been doing the same thing for 20 years. He sees a problem somewhere. He makes it so big that we all get scared of it and then he blames someone else. It's Brussels, it's the Muslims, it's the same song every time. My question to Mr Wilders is this: what form of expression that cannot be prosecuted now, does he want to ban in his country of freedom as a fan of Orban and Putin, who want to close newspapers, who are homoenemy, who are Jews' enemies, which has nothing to do with love? That's where you want to go. Then just say that. Then tell us which country you are aiming for: a poor country from the European Union and an unfree country. That's Geert Wilders' land.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u23	Of course, I am not speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister of Hungary, but I would like to say that where the colleague says that Orban is guilty of homosexual and Jewish hatred, this is too disgusting for words. I happen to know the man personally, but gay hatred and Jew hatred...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u24	Muslim hate no problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u25	Don't talk through it. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u26	This is from a falsehood I don't know. You can criticize someone, Mr. Asscher may have that on me, and then I answer, but if you accuse someone of homosexual and Jewish hatred... Probably you've never spoken to Orban before, you've only seen his picture, and you thought, "Was that me, once?" That's probably it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Wilders is announcing a legislative proposal, so I would like to know more about that. Look, oppression in the Netherlands, women who are oppressed, homosexuals who are oppressed in the name of Islam, that is impossible. We will take action against that. I will say what I have to say about this later, but Mr Wilders is making it wider. Earlier he wanted to ban all the Qur'an and had the police look in bookcases with good people. Now any expression of Islam must be banned. So a free man...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u28	Not every one, but it's the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u29	Sure, that's why I'm asking for your law, not what you wanted earlier, but what was unfeasible. Your new law, every expression. This also applies to a freed woman in the Netherlands who works, who is religious and answers to the question of what her faith is and then says she is Muslim. Or a mayor of Rotterdam who states that he is a practicing Muslim and that this is an expression of faith, should he lose his profession, should he go to prison, what exactly is the penalty for people who say they are Muslims? What are we gonna do, lock people up or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u30	No, Mr President, I will forget the silliness of Mr Dijkhoff's questions. I just mentioned it, but he probably hasn't read the bill yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u31	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u32	It says in which statements are forbidden. I told you, islamic schools, mosques, the Qur'an and a burqa or a nikab in public space. There is also an article that opens up the possibility of adding another expression, if the legislator so wishes, later per AMvB. For the time being, however, it is the expressions I have mentioned, especially in public. Read the bill
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u33	The misunderstanding is that Mr Wilders says: every expression. Now it's already a list of things I won't support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u34	Read the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u35	I'll read the bill later, but if you tell me anything about the bill that's not right, I think it would be better to correct it first and not to wait until I read the bill once and see that you've shouted a little louder than you're going to do in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u36	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not shouting a little louder than I'm gonna do in the end. In fact, we have already made all these proposals individually. We have already argued in favour of closing mosques, we have already argued in favour of banning the Qur'an, we have already said that Islamic schools are bad for young people. We have already said something about this once, we have adopted a motion on it, partly implemented but not entirely about the burka and the nikab. The difference is that, given the urgency, we are now presenting it to the Chamber in a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u37	In the past almost an hour we have seen another classic sample of Islambasing and Muslim basing by Mr Wilders. He is constantly talking about freedom, and I mentioned it this morning - about the judges he wants to fire, about political parties he wants to ban and about his talk about freedom. I have been listening to Mr Wilders' nonsense for 50 minutes and I am increasingly wondering: is he not using freedom as a cover to sow hatred in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u38	No. I use freedom precisely to ensure that ideologies that carry hatred and violence in them are read again, you read the Qur'an, which you probably know well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u39	You know him better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u40	Probably. Look at countries where Islam is now dominant. Look at Arab, Islamic countries. I do not think that at the moment there is a country in the world where Islam is dominant and at the same time you can call a free country, where free journalists are, where women are equal to men, where gays are equal to straight people and where people who choose to leave their faith may do so instead of being killed or stared at with their necks. This is happening right now in all the countries of the world where Islam is dominant. There's no freedom there. At the moment that I see and that we see as a PVV group, that where Islam is dominant there is no freedom, we want to ensure that the Netherlands remains free. This is about stopping hatred and protecting freedom for our children and grandchildren. If we continue over the next 14 years with what we have done over the past 14 years, so do not listen to proper warnings, then the freedom of the Netherlands will end badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u41	Wilders' freedom is not the freedom we have known in this country for centuries, for decades. This freedom means that people must be treated equally. That freedom applies to every citizen in the same way. Mr Wilders' freedom means freedom for groups for which he claims to include it, but not for groups like Muslims and convinced Muslims who go to the mosque and have a Qur'an at home. And now he's coming up with a bill. Mr Wilders often talks about the safety of this country and about the fact that security is under pressure. We've been talking about the past 14 years. In the last 14 years we have seen xenophobia in the Netherlands rising, as well as Muslim hatred. I asked about this two years ago, reciting from an NCTV report which states that Mr Wilders' statements have a magnetic effect on terrorism. We saw what happened in Amsterdam. We have seen that on the basis of Mr Wilder's drawing competition, lives of Dutch people have been endangered, in the Netherlands and abroad. I would therefore like to ask Mr Wilders: do you see your own role in this? Do you see how much evil you're doing in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u43	Do you see how much you're hurting the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u45	And still claim that you stand for the Netherlands? I'd almost like to say, fuck off, man!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u46	Well, the level isn't getting any better today, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u47	Well, Mr Kuzu may say that. Look, Mr Kuzu, unlike your ideology, I do believe that people who want to leave Islam should be able to do so without the death penalty. I do think that people should be able to draw a so-called "prophet" without getting a knife in their necks. I do not think that small, young boys and girls from 7/8 years old should go to an Islamic school where they all learn these terrible things. I do think that a book that has more anti-Semitism in it should be considered normal by the Qur'an rather than Mein Kampf. I want to stand up for that freedom. And again, and you have no answer to that either: in every country today where Islam is dominant today, there is no freedom and they would have wanted them to have acted earlier, if they could have. If we do not do this now, if we do not protect our freedom and our children, we will lose our freedom, we will become a stranger in our own country and we will no longer be allowed to do what we want. To achieve that, you must have the courage to take the necessary measures. This law, I think, is the most important law that has been filed here in the last 100 years, even though it will not make it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u48	If we follow Mr Wilders' line, we will lose our freedom in this country as we know it. By doing so, we degrade to a country that doesn't operate according to the standards we know here. We are talking about 14 years of Wilders in this Chamber, in this country 14 years! It is also time for Mr Wilders to reflect on his political legacy over the past 14 years. That political legacy is soaked in blood. We're talking about an attack in Enschede, at a mosque. We're talking about threats to Muslims. We are talking about people who write all kinds of texts at asylum seekers' centres. A 2011 study shows that 25% of the PVV's supporters are willing to use force to achieve the goal. Then I wonder, Mr. Wilders, is that the legacy you want to leave to the Netherlands? Mr Baudet is already ready to take over. It's over, it's over. Look at that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u49	Mr President, my reaction to Mr Kuzu is that the PVV has actually just begun. It's over, it's over? We are all going on for at least 14 years while you are back in Turkey and think about the time you were here in the Dutch Parliament. We do it for freedom. As for all the words of "blood" and such nonsense, all flat rhetoric: go ahead, be my guest, have a lot of fun in it, look back, make a nice movie and put it on Twitter. But it really doesn't make any sense. What we are doing is to ensure that the ideologies which Mr Kuzu and his friends are seeking with him do not get a foothold in the Netherlands. Mr Kuzu's performance shows that this bill is actually even more important than it was this morning when I had not yet submitted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u50	When I look at Mr Wilders like that, I'm actually starting to feel more and more sorry for him. If we have to do to the Netherlands that we still have to hear this nonsense for 14 years, I will, unfortunately, be standing here for 14 years to fight you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u51	Well, that's the worst news of the day!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr President, perhaps the idea is that Mr Kuzu and Mr Wilders will have a day together tomorrow, because I really have the impression that they are bringing out the worst, and that makes little sense in this Chamber, which also needs to come up with solutions. The next question is to Mr Wilders. He has very big words with his law now. That brings me to something he said earlier in his speech and what was already on my mind at the time. He was talking about Urk, where he stood in front of a monument. He spoke in his speech about fallen for freedom. He placed those fallen for freedom in the perspective of today: what is not the freedom for which they fell and what is the freedom for which they fell............................................................................................................................................ I think that's grotesque. In fact, I think that is serious. We talk about people, many in the Netherlands, who have given their lives for freedom. That's what Mr Wilders was talking about. He cannot say afterwards about people who fell for the freedom that they gave their lives to the world of Mr Wilders. So I would ask him to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u53	I'm not gonna take anything back, you're out of your fucking mind! I'm not taking anything back. Besides, I didn't say it like that. I said: these people are the heroes of the Netherlands and there are so many other people who have fought too. I said: our parents, our grandparents, have also fought for this beautiful country. There is now a threat to freedom. We're losing that freedom now. The Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands. The Netherlands Islamizes. Why don't you take your beautiful, correct language, Mr. Buma, and take a look in the neighborhoods here in The Hague? Go to Rotterdam, to Utrecht, to Weert, to all those cities. Why don't you go talk to some ordinary people? Go ask them what they think of the Islamization of the Netherlands. Why don't you ask those women who get called whore on the tram? Or think of people who don't move when they sit by a tram booth waiting for the tram and some people pass by. Ask ordinary people what misery they experience every day by feeling strange in their own country. That's only gonna get worse. It's not just about a tram booth anymore, it's about our freedom. And I'm here to guard that freedom. Even if I have to keep the same story for 14 years, like I said, I'll do it every day. Because there's nothing more important than our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u54	Mr Wilders is making the link again. He denied it for a while in between, but he's putting it back on. I say this because I think there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who might be next of kin, son, daughter, brother, wife, and who really hear you say why someone would have fallen for freedom, namely for your Netherlands. It's not true. It's just not true. So you have to stay away from that too, because it is too vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u55	I'm not getting away from anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u56	I would like to go back to the bill that Mr Wilders is announcing. A number of expressions are then specifically banned for Muslims. He rightly referred to freedom in Islamic countries. That's problematic. There are indeed second-class citizens in Islamic countries, for example Christians, who do not have the same rights and duties as Muslims there. That's problematic, but he actually wants to do the same mirrored here. He wants to defend freedom by partially abolishing it. Because if you want to ban Islamic education, you get Article 23 of the Constitution, which says: education is free, but there is government supervision of quality and soundness. For his bill, it is necessary to abolish Article 23. In the name of freedom, therefore, a freedom is destroyed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u57	No, again, I cannot repeat it often enough: what we are doing is, on the contrary, banning an ideology that threatens freedom. We want to ensure that we reduce it, for you Christians but also for others who are threatened by the same ideology, namely Islam, not only in Islamic countries, but also here if they were in charge. We therefore say: not here, not in the Netherlands. We're a free country. We see a threat coming towards us and we defend ourselves against it. And yes, we are indeed doing so with this bill, which I did not announce, but submitted, which states that a number of Islamic expressions are not allowed in the Netherlands. This is necessary in order to defend freedom, especially that of Christians here in the Netherlands, Mr Segers, because I can assure you: they are as one of the first to die when Islam is in charge here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u58	We must defend this freedom, here and elsewhere. We must stand up for those who must suffer in the name of any ideology because of their beliefs. We must stand up for that, in our foreign policy, but also here. If people cannot lose their faith in freedom and cannot embrace another faith in freedom, we must stand beside them and defend them. But what has been the victory of Western democracy? That's everyone's equality before the law. That's freedom for anyone without respect for themselves. You are now saying that not everyone is more equal, because you are going to treat one citizen differently from the other. You say that the freedom we have now will be abolished. You put a line through Article 23, on which the whole of special education and freedom of education are based. In the name of freedom, you abolish freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u59	Giving freedom to Islam is suicide. That's it. I can't answer anything else. That's giving freedom to Islam, growing Islam. Again, it's not a few Muslims who think so. 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that the Islamic rules, "The Sharia," about how you treat women, Christians, gays, Jews differently and inferior to Muslims, are more important than this law. I didn't make that up. It was an investigation, I believe, of the University of Amsterdam, that confirmed this. If we let that thrive, that means we lose our freedom, you lose your freedom. I'm actually doing the work you should be doing, Mr Segers. I'm surprised you didn't file that law, because it's your people who benefit from this law. Leaving that behind, making fun of it here and standing up for Islamic education, I think a lot of your voters think: what is he doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u60	The tragedy is that we could stand shoulder to shoulder in the fight against Muslim hatred, against Christian hatred, against homophobic hatred, against any hatred and any lack of freedom. We could stand shoulder to shoulder for a rule of law where everyone is equal and freedom belongs to everyone. But we're not shoulder to shoulder. What you are doing is treating people unequally and abolishing our freedom. I say it one more time: Article 23 contains a freedom that has been severely fought, among other things by a few ancestors you mentioned. Those people have fought for freedom, and those are my ideological ancestors. You're abolishing that freedom. We could have stood shoulder to shoulder in the fight against terror, jihadism and any violation of the law, but now we're facing each other because you're opting for freedom and I'm going for freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u61	No, because you choose to surrender and I stand up for the freedom of the Netherlands. Mr President, I will conclude. I want a better Netherlands. I want a Netherlands which will be clear by now with as little Islam as possible, with fewer immigrants, without terror, and preferably without Prime Minister Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u62	Now that Mr. Wilders is finishing up, I'll come back to something I was hoping for... There are a lot of differences between his party and my party, but there was always one huge agreement, one point where we could stand shoulder to shoulder: the lowering of the AOW age. Yesterday in his comments for TV and radio I didn't hear Mr. Wilders about that. Now I don't hear him talking about it either. I deliberately waited until the end of his contribution. My question to Mr Wilders is: where has the point gone that the PVV was also fighting for the reduction of the AOW age?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u63	That's still there. I have outlined two perspectives in my story. I have outlined to you the story of the EUR 30, 40 billion that we can earn in the Netherlands by eliminating expenditure, nonsense expenditure, which no Dutchman can use. We are talking about development aid, we are talking about spending on the European Union, we are talking about a lot of different spending. I made a point about what we could do next year. Of course, if you make a proposal to at least freeze the AOW age at 66 years and, as far as I am concerned, even bring it back to 65 years, you will find us 100% on your side. That is what we found in the budget last year. You remember: last year the General Reviews went together with the debate on the government statement. Then we filed and covered that motion. It's still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u64	I am pleased, because Mr Wilders will undoubtedly read in our counter-budget, which has appeared today, that there is exactly what he is proposing. I'm just so sad about what's going on here. We are only a short while away in this Chamber, but we will come up with a counter-budget. Why didn't Mr Wilders come up with a counter-budget so that his proposals could actually have been passed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u65	Our proposals result in 6 billion in surplus and 3 times 2 billion in expenditure. Again, you don't have to be called Einstein to know that's possible. You don't have to cut back. You don't have to do anything for it. You have 6 billion in surplus. You divide that into three posts. So there's no point in putting that to the CPB at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u66	I predict that what Mr Wilders is doing is going to cost a lot of money. Then it is as neat to your colleagues as you put it on paper, so that we can pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u67	I said it, so I'd say read the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u68	I have listened carefully to Mr Wilders, but I have heard something really new: the warm words for Urk. Of course, that does me good, too, as a SGP player. I know that fishing monument too. That's a very nice monument. There is also a very nice text from Revelation. That's what you'll find in Urk. Indeed, it is a concern about freedom, but besides suffering it is about praying, the Christian faith that characterizes them. Is that also the Netherlands that Mr Wilders recognizes and what he stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u69	I myself have already told the honourable Member that this is an agnostic. I'm not a confessing Catholic, I'm an agnostic. But that does not mean that people who do not believe in Christianity cannot value the Christian traditions and the norms and values that spring from them. Yes, I do think that the Jewish-Christian character of the Netherlands, you mention Urk, which I also mentioned, is important to fight for. For me, that stands for freedom, too. Islam is precisely the ideology that puts that freedom at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u71	Mr. Chairman. I told you before: a better Netherlands, a country where we cherish our care workers, our agents, a country where we allow the people who work, the elderly, the people who do not save themselves to benefit significantly from economic growth. A reborn, proud and sovereign Netherlands that is again in charge of its own country. A Netherlands that puts its own citizens in the first place, Madam President-in-Office, after all, who have elected us. It's all possible. We can all make our dreams come true. As long as we want to. And as long as we dare to make the right choices. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you. Mr. Wilders, Mr. Pechtold has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u73	I deliberately let it get all worked up this time. 'Cause 14 years of Wilders, it all sounds familiar. In fact, the bill presented today by Mr Wilders is a kind of collect-lp of what we have seen before: banning headscarfs, banning sacred books, banning prayer houses. Now the schools are joining us, although I have heard criticism from Mr Wilders in that corner before. But the effect of those 14 years was visible today. Those who once were open to making plans with you who might still have some realism were the first to say that a bill in this direction will never be supported by them. In fact, there is a part of the progressive opposition that already radiates in everything that you say will never get a majority. What have you achieved today for your constituents who may have justified concerns about how the Netherlands lives together, except perhaps a few nice messages "Wilders is going to rage"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u74	I told you before: I will fight for our freedom every day, Mr. Pechtold, every day; I have been fighting for our freedom for 14 years and longer. That's not gonna make it to the majority tomorrow, that's fine. For you to say: that bill will never reach a majority, that would be terrible. But wait and see. There's also a life after Alexander Pechtold, Mr. Pechtold. There can be some changes here and that bill of ours that pleads for our freedom... Once again, I think it is a historic proposal and you are making a historic proposal not because you know in advance that it will achieve a majority, but because it is necessary for the Netherlands. This bill ensures our freedom, the preservation of our freedom. You should take a look at that instead of trying to lecture me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u75	This time Mr Wilders did not catch me reading the lesson to him. Mr Wilders, I am merely holding you back because the one-two we have often had is beginning to become fairly predictable by what you come up with and to which you need to respond. Just because others have reacted now, I found it so distinctive that you are actually wallowing in your own right, in your own booth that occasionally gets a little bigger or a little smaller, but that you do not make any attempt, do not make any serious attempt to help a bill to majorities. And isn't that democracy? Isn't that because you're a minority, you're trying to convince others with ideas instead of hurting, getting personal and discriminated against? Exactly what you all advocate, in which you even have to drag victims from the past for your own equal in the present, the real heroes you drag in for your story. Fourteen more years. I wish you success, but the effect is that it is no longer one-one but that everyone says in advance: Wilders, your own equal, wallow in it, wallow in it but we do not participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u76	I am not surprised that Mr Pechtold does not agree. I also know that he has more to do in Meppel and other places than just legislative work. But apart from that, Madam President, we are going to fight here in this country for the freedom of our citizens. Then you submit a bill that you think is necessary for the Netherlands. I'm not filing any laws or motions to seek a compromise. I'm not filing any laws or motions that are only half of what I think. Fortunately, there are still 20 people who are proposing what they think, what they think! We believe that Islam, Madam President, is a threat to freedom. What do you expect from me now? That if I make a proposal where only one tenth of what I really think is in order to hope that it comes together? No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u77	Mr. Chairman. You're getting ready on a day like this. Then people say to you, "Would he do it, would he do it, would he stretch the line between political and private?" I have often crossed swords with Mr Wilders over the past 14 years, but always about political ideas, about beliefs. Mr. Chairman. Maybe Mr. Wilders can do it himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u79	In fact, we have not exceeded that limit of privacy. I have great respect for how you've endured incredibly much from your personal situation. I will stand every day to protect and defend that, with all that is necessary for that. I always have, and I always will. But that border that you are now crossing is, to me, more than indicative of the way you are trying to put others away. That's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u80	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u81	I'd like to respond to that. There really is no greater hypocrite in this Chamber than Mr Pechtold. His interruption of net is probably the biggest hypocrisy we're going to experience on this day. I would remind Mr Pechtold of 2010. The PVV tolerated just now. He was the one who then, from this chair, asked for a debate because of private concerns of a number of PVV room members. One would have dated a woman who was underage and the other I would have done what. Luckily, half of them didn't add up. That is different with Mr Pechtold, I'm afraid. These are all private matters for which Mr Pechtold rose in the course of the work and on which he asked for a plenary debate on the same Tuesday. He said here: shame what all these PVVs are doing in private! Shame! Shame on them all! Mr Pechtold even said, together with Mrs Halsema van GroenLinks, who participated in this: I want a code of conduct for MPs. Well, I don't hear about that anymore, Mr. Pechtold!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u82	No, no, no, Mr. Wilders. I take it you didn't approve of that at the time either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u83	Will you participate in the debate, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u84	No, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u85	Well, this was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u86	I would very much like to object to Mr Wilders' tone. We are all very vulnerable as representatives of the people. Will we please keep private and public matters apart here? People are waiting for a debate about their future, about their concerns. Let's not turn this into some sort of gossiping debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u88	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't agree more. I couldn't agree more. But I will not be lectured by the man who asked for a debate in 2010 to lecture ten PVV room members because of their private life. You're a great hypocritical man, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u89	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u90	Thank you, Mr President. The viewer can now return to "suitable for all ages."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Kuzu, Mr. Dijkhoff has yet to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u92	That's right. I am aware of that, but I read an article this morning in the Algemeen Dagblad about Mr Dijkhoff's plans. I would like to ask him a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u93	No. You'll have every opportunity to interrupt later. No, Mr. Kuzu. I would suggest that Mr Dijkhoff should just start. You're gonna be able to ask questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u94	It's extensively addressed in my input, in block three of three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u95	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u96	Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, very curious about what all colleagues have to say about the budget these days and about the future visions on the land they are going to give in the General Reviews. Honestly, I'm mostly curious about the life that my daughter is about to lead, and whether she'll have it as well in 2050 as I do now. Or better yet, with even better health care, even better education and an even finer country to live in. Unfortunately, such a better future is not given. Over the last 200 years, we've gotten used to things getting better and better. And of course we have had many setbacks, such as world wars and economic depressions. Even now, we have just come out of an economic crisis, but the underlying trend has clearly risen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u97	I was wondering whether Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD was also concerned about the daughters and the sons of all those people who grew up in the Schilderswijk, in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, in the Afrikaanderwijk et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u98	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u99	I am very curious to see Mr Dijkhoff's plan to punish people in these areas more severely than, for example, his own daughter when she goes over the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u100	That's exactly not the plan. I will come back to that in detail later. It is an additional protection measure for the people in those neighbourhoods, who are already suffering from more crime around them. It's not like you get punished harder when you live there. It's just that you get punished harder when you commit a criminal activity there, when you recruit young people there for drug runnin', when you recruit young people there for something else. A district that is vulnerable and where the people of good will are already suffering enough because there is more crime in their neighbourhood than in the neighborhood where, I suppose, Mr Kuzu and I live, that is his two neighborhoods, by the way, we should be protecting extra. I'll explain that in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u101	I wonder, then, what is the situation with the equality of justice? Are we going to impose heavier penalties for the same offences or crimes because they take place in a particular area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u103	And how does that relate to the Dutch Constitution? How does this relate to the principle of equality? We just had to listen to Mr Wilders for over an hour. A week ago, we discussed Mr Blok's statement in detail, and a large part of the Chamber criticized it. I am getting the feeling that the VVD proposal is actually going in the same direction. I was wondering how you rhyme with that. What did you learn from last week's debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u104	My proposal, as will be seen in the near future, is going in a completely different direction. I don't blame Mr Kuzu for pulling it right through that filter, but I think that if he hears the whole story later, he might as well agree with me for a long time. Because the first people who benefit from the approach I am about to propose are the people in those vulnerable neighbourhoods themselves, who are already lagging behind and who sometimes start school with a backlog that they will not be able to catch up with in their entire lives. I'm gonna go into that in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u106	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about getting used to getting better, getting better for the next generation. We worked hard for that. The results of 200 years of growing free trade, growing attention to personal freedom and an increasingly effective government are spectacular. Look at the number of people who have come out of poverty, at the spectacular drop in child mortality, at the life expectancy that has risen considerably, at the safety we have, at the care and education that are now there for our children. I don't know any time I'd rather live in, I don't know any country I'd rather live in than the present Netherlands. But still, Mr. Chairman, these are exciting times. And yet I think that, no matter how beautiful it is, there's still a lot to be done for my daughter's good future. And that's what I want to talk to you about today. We have enough challenges for the next generations. The questions we have to answer are the following. What are our goals and how do we get there? Is the Netherlands still one of the most innovative countries in the world in 2050? Is our freedom still as great as the freedom we now know and sometimes take for granted? Are the trust in society and the security that it makes us feel still there? And quite specifically, what will my daughter say when she is asked what she wants to become later? Back when I was little, it was simple: pilot, firefighter, soccer player. In my case, it was a little less tough: judge. But what will she say? Artificial intelligence developer? Hyperloopmachinist? Influencer? CO-transitionalist? Or isn't it just a soccer player? And if she wants to be a CO-transitionalist, is that orbit still in 2050? Or is it no longer necessary? Or is she going to do something that doesn't exist yet and will not even exist on the day she goes to school for the first time and does she have a profession that we can't even imagine with all our imaginations? Mr. Chairman. At this time, technological changes are hard to keep up with. And as if that's not enough: the changes are still moving faster. That brings us a lot of beautiful things, but it is also a source of uncertainty. This uncertainty is felt by many people in the Netherlands. Now that the crisis is over, we have to face the long-term problems. If people are uncertain about the speed of the changes and the result that these changes bring, then it is up to us as politics to answer the following questions for my daughter's generation. How do we ensure that the Netherlands is still among the most innovative economies in the world by 2050? At the same time, how do we achieve the climate objectives? And how do we ensure that integration and immigration work properly? Mr. Chairman. These three subjects are important: I have plenty of time. I want to have them discussed in this order, so everyone knows when what will come. We need a great deal for our future economy: very good education, realistic free trade, but also new security. First of all, education. I think that we should increasingly choose how to spend the education money and increasingly focus on the jobs of the future. That education should be more closely aligned with technological developments. And also give teachers the opportunity to continue to develop themselves, so that they always pass on the world view of the moment they teach children, and not that of the moment they graduate themselves. We need to be more flexible in bringing the outside world to class, and we need to take the kids to where the technology is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u107	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u108	Mr. Chairman. A very nice speech about the future that Mr Dijkhoff is giving his daughter and all the children of the country. The question I have to ask, and I find it painful, is: why are we cutting back on education, especially on children who will soon be dependent on practical learning, on a job for entrepreneurs who may need to be subsidised? There's $19 million in savings. How does Mr Dijkhoff defend this great reduction in the future of these children?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u109	Look, the cabinet has several priorities to serve in the Education budget, and has rearranged them. This also has a limited impact on practical learning, and it is important to me that those entrepreneurs who really need this scheme to offer them practical learning, not the larger companies, but the smaller ones, should be spared, and that this scheme should remain open to them. I expect, in this economy, that the larger companies, who do use this scheme but do not necessarily need to offer practical learning, will continue to do so, because they desperately need people who can do the work they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u110	You can expect that, but those are not the facts. We saw in the spring that the MBO Council indicated that it could cost 40,000 places, and then it was 7 million. Now it's about much bigger numbers. Lots of daughters and sons of people who want work, too. In other words, would you be prepared to delete these cuts if we could agree that this is really at the disadvantage of young people who want a future and who just want to get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u111	See, that depends on where we have to get it from. One part of education is that we learn there that we can only spend money once, and that you can make choices. So I'm not always looking for whether every jar is the best thing that I would like to do. I would prefer to spend infinite money, much more on it, and at the same time pay off the debt. I think the budget is in balance now. If there is an alternative that we can agree on, or more than just the two of us, I'm just saying; you have that in a coalition, I want to look at it, but I don't want to create the expectation that this will be possible for a moment, because it will be at the expense of other things, which are also important. I therefore find this budget on Education in balance, including on this point, and even if there is something in it that I do not like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u112	I think this reaction is very sporty, because Mr Dijkhoff is actually inviting me to come up with a proposal that could obtain a majority in this Chamber. The coalition will have to agree. I do have an idea, and I'm glad I'm going to win that contest: the dividend tax, your 2 billion euros bet. Not to explain; not to us in this room, not to your daughter or any daughter. 19 million euros savings on the future opportunities of many young people in this country cannot be explained while at the same time you gambled away such a colossal business, Mr. Dijkhoff, and you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u113	Well, that's very explainable, because then you have to explain the difference between long-term and short-term. It's easier and more fun to spend next year, and in the years after, because it's more than one year, the money you expect to collect with the dividend tax. That is possible, but if we want to have a good economy in the long term, where we can do even more money in terms of care, education and security, then Mr Asscher also knows that we need to take decisions that will keep the economy strong in the long term. At a time of shifting panels, of the Brexit, we can take a measure for something that has already been legally challenged, because there is a good chance that sometime in the coming years we will have to seek cover for the abolition of dividend taxation. Then you can do something better when you can keep companies here or still attract them to you, and even cover them; in a period of prosperity, where, in addition to abolishing the dividend tax, you can reduce 500 million in charges for ordinary people and also invest 6 billion in the public sector. In the long term, for example, the whole package will have a stronger economy, which can generate even more money for care, education and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u114	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u115	Well, well. Those are all arguments in one bin at the same time. I'm just trying to listen carefully. Here's what I asked. You are proposing to cut 19 million on tens of thousands of young people who are eager to get to work and take advantage of their training in our economy, for the long term. And you come up with a huge long story that cannot be tied to, namely that it is better for the longer term. I hear there are a few people who can tie a rope to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u116	The education was really good enough in your time to understand, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u117	I take it back: VVDs can tie a rope to it. You say that it is wise to spend EUR 2 billion a year on foreign shareholders. Because that is actually what the argument comes down to. My proposal would be that I will not be the first to make the proposal, and I will not be the last to do it, and you will also have to give a better answer than so far to invest that money in our real future. Not in foreign shareholders, but in young people, in our future, in education, in our economy, in what Dutch people now need most, especially now that the sun is shining. I'm hoping for a more positive answer than you just gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u118	I fully agree with Mr Asscher that you need to make decisions that are not only good for the years ahead and for the people who are now in education, but that you need to look a generation ahead, at the long term. That is precisely why the dividend tax should be abolished. And part of education is often repetition, so if the question comes more often, I will repeat the answer more often, so that Mr Asscher also understands it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u119	The word has fallen. I think we'll definitely be talking about it later. However, I would like to return for a moment, before we enter into the big debate, to Mr Dijkhoff's rather nice introduction to the future of his daughter and to what good wishes he has for it. Mr Dijkhoff and I are of the same generation, all of whom are in their 30s. I was actually wondering what Mr Dijkhoff would say about the fact that for the first time since the Second World War, 30s, our generation, do not automatically have it better than their parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u120	That's exactly what I started with in my introduction. We're used to it. And of course there have been long periods where it was also easier to let the next generation have better, because you came from a lower point. So the more prosperous you get, the harder it gets to add wealth to it, to make it feel real. 'Cause at some point, you have the law of inhibiting yield. Do you have wonderful amenities, do you have a fantastic country, do you have enough money to do fun things, then there are few people who say no to any more money. But it doesn't necessarily make it much happier or more prosperous when it comes to prosperity. That is why you also see that we have more and more money left, including for the public sector. After all, there is a lot of value there, such as care, education and security, which we now consider more important now that we have basic things in order for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u121	I think that good care, good education and safety are basic things for us too, so I do not quite understand why Mr Dijkhoff is taking these things apart. But back to my point: over the last decades, I think we have had ten of the twelve cabinets with the VVD. Mr Dijkhoff started his story nicely: we have a lot of economic growth continuously, if you look at how we have progressed over the last 100 years with all of us as a society. Then Mr Dijkhoff must find it painful that it is precisely our generation that does not automatically get it better than its parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u122	No. First of all, I'm not fixated on my own generation, especially now that I have a daughter. In addition, I think it makes sense that it will be more difficult to move forward, as I mentioned earlier, if you already have such a high level of prosperity. It also says something about the huge blows we made in the progress we made after the Second World War, with shocks and occasional relapses. Even now you will see that it is not one straight line, but the underlying pattern is a rising line. There are periods in which it blows enormously forward, such as the period in which we now seem to be again, and there are periods in which you have to slow down the decline. We have also had to deal with late maintenance, where the facilities, the government, the arrangements, the welfare state, pensions and that sort of thing, we haven't all been very focused on previous generations. Then there must be maintenance and reform. It takes a lot of time, but it doesn't pay off immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u123	We all know these reforms by Mr Dijkhoff and his VVD. I can only observe that at a time when things have all gone better, when we have gotten better as a society, the VVD has managed to achieve that there is now a trend break, and that is a generation that is no better than its parents. I would also like to add my voice to the point made by Mr Asscher. You can mention all kinds of examples, for example how difficult it is to get an affordable home, how difficult it is for a lot of people to choose the training they want to do. Speaking of freedom. Is it not a matter of urgency that, at this time in which, in your view, economic growth is not enough and in which things are going better than ever before, the students, including your own youngsters, should turn against increasing the cost of studying? Especially in times of economic growth, when things are going so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u124	No, because I didn't say that these are jubilee times and that from now on the golden times are dawning. Mrs Marijnissen often says: is it not harsh that it does not get better automatically? It never went better automatically. This has cost a lot of measures and has taken a lot of looking ahead and anticipating and doing things that are more effective in the longer term and that may not be popular or easy to explain in the short term. That is what we are doing now, in addition to things that will be of immediate benefit, such as investing in public values and the public sector, and reducing the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u125	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u126	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. We heard the Throne speech yesterday. We have also heard the cabinet: the economy is doing well. Then I really do not understand where the VVD gets it from to make it even more expensive for your daughter, but also for the new generations who want to study. Mr. Dijkhoff, I really can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u127	This is because the economy offers low interest rates. If you hold it longer, it will rise slightly, but less than if you have to hold an even higher interest rate after an end period in five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u128	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dijkhoff on his contribution. You just feel the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u129	He's just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u130	This perhaps says more about the debate that has been before it than about Mr Dijkhoff's words, to be honest. But you can feel the air and the energy coming back into the Chamber, and that's very good. I would like to continue with education, because this is the moment that many of us have been looking forward to. Mr Dijkhoff has been chairman of the political group for a year. His great vision of which direction to take with the country is now coming. That starts with education; extremely important. Of this, he says that we must ensure that it is closer to what is happening in practice and to the wishes of business. But what's the new thing about what he's telling you? Because I had that debate with Anne-Wil Lucas in 2010 and with Pieter Duisenberg of the VVD in 2012. That's the line the VVD's been holding for eight years. What is the innovative aspect of what Mr Dijkhoff is proposing here when it comes to how we should look at education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u131	It's not my hobby to throw everything over every six months and think we need to come up with something new. You improve things, and if things aren't good enough on the path you already want, it's got to be even better. I think that the urgency has increased further, not only because of a link with business, but also for the development of our children. We have to accept that it is no longer enough to let them graduate with one set of knowledge or leave school and say: this is it. It is important to make them more and more skilled in the technology that is changing more and more rapidly. You can't leave it at home anymore and assume that the parents all understand what is happening. So I think that's even more important. I also think that we should choose more radically in further education. I'll just say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u132	Follow-up training, but of course it starts in primary and secondary education and the way we look at our children there. In recent years, under VVD leadership, the line has been deployed that there should be a focus, rather limited actually, on language and counting, while Mr Dijkhoff outlines that we need skills, skills, that go much wider than just those tasks. Is Mr Dijkhoff actually announcing that we need to move away from the focus on language and payment and that we need to look more broadly again, so that technology and understanding technology are not just going to play a more important role throughout education? Is this a policy change that Mr Dijkhoff is proposing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u133	Forgive me, but I'm not thinking in The Hague terms as a policy change. I'm just gonna tell you the story I want to bring. If things have to be different than now, that's usually the case, then that's a change. However, it was still too much of the same just now, so I am a little confused by Mr Klaver. Language and arithmetic are of course basic skills, because otherwise you cannot control and understand the technique either. And if we don't understand the language, we won't be able to understand each other. I'll come back to that later. But taking technology, and also offering teachers the opportunity to revisit their knowledge, I find, after language and arithmetic, a key point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u134	That is a wonderful sober remark, and I like Mr Dijkhoff's saying that he is not all of The Hague. But the point is relevant, because what I'm asking is what he's going to do about it. What's different from what's happened over the past few years? I note that in recent years the policy of the VVD has led to a narrowing of education and that teachers have been given less time to train children more widely. Will that change if it is up to Mr Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u135	Yeah, well, that's gonna have to focus more on technology anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u137	Mr. Chairman. In addition to primary education, I believe that we should also make a stronger choice in funding further education for what we, as a society, are best able to help each other move forward. We must choose more radically the professions of the future. That is, of course, a field of tension, because the choice to study what you want is indeed a great thing. But it doesn't make much sense, as a government at the same level, to encourage a choice where there's little work compared to a choice where there's a lot of work, or to learn skills that you can only get up to ten years ahead of, rather than learning skills that we're expecting decades ahead of. I would like to ask the cabinet to develop a vision on this and send it to the Chamber, and to be concrete in that: what do we do when the present Technics Pact expires? What are the ideas about that? How do we make cyberskills not just an "addition" to the program, but how do we put it into the base? In short, how does the cabinet intend to put our children ahead of the world? Mr. Chairman. The second thing that is needed for that economy of the future is a new kind of security for the people in the Netherlands who do the work. The old variant, the fixed contract, is falling further and further away. Let us also be honest: it was never as firm as the word suggested, but it did make it feel safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u138	I would like to ask another question about education, following Mr Dijkhoff's speech. I very much agree that this is the time to prepare education for the future. One of the pressing problems at the moment is the lack of teachers, particularly in primary and secondary education. There is a pay gap between primary and secondary education. I also welcome the additional resources for education. No misunderstanding about that: it is good that that happens. But my question to Mr Dijkhoff is: does he agree with me that we need to say here that we want to bridge that pay gap, to ensure that there will be enough teachers in the future? In my opinion, Mr Dijkhoff's daughter is not yet at primary school age, but there will have to be enough teachers. Well, then you're gonna have to take steps to close that pay gap, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u139	That's a point for me that comes after we've worked out what you're going to do. If the skills of both types of teachership are very close, it is also logical that the payments are very close. So I think that point should follow after you figure out how to shape the education and what the cabinet's vision is on it. I think there are many other things besides pay. When I speak to teachers around me, they say: there are many things in my profession that I would not immediately recommend the profession to my family; not only the wages. I don't hear the wages till the end. I think we should zoom in on that more. Because we all share the observation that there's a lot in the way for the professional who just wants to do his job. He must have the confidence that he's doing well. And of course we have to check that everything is going well for our children, but that professional should not fill out all kinds of forms all the time. And then at the end comes the call for more money. I think there's a world in there. We have also created things ourselves, either through questions here in the Chamber; not realizing that we are creating something that causes bureaucracy, with intermediate layers and with people who have to check all that again. So I'd rather zoom in on that: how do we make the work more attractive? And then the wage discussion follows on its own. But there is now a step in that. I think that is more in line with practice than that it should become a principle in terms of gaps and equalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u140	At some point, there was a secretary of state who suggested that working with adolescents would be much more difficult. He apologized for that the other day. For a moment, I thought you were going that way when you said we need to know what the skills are. We know what the skills are. Teacher is a beautiful profession, but also a heavy occupation. And you can see that this pay gap now causes people going to education to opt for secondary education rather than primary education. That's an acute, urgent problem. That is not something we can place in the long term. We need to do something about that now. In Zaanstad there is a four-day school week. We can't accept that with each other, can we? So I'm gonna ask my question again. Of course, we need to think about how education is developing. And yes, there is more: it is also about workload and administrative burdens and so on. But it's also just about decent rewards. I understand you can't just do it, but does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that we should close that pay gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u141	I share Mr Asscher's concerns about education. I am more reluctant to criticise what else needs to be done, because I believe that in the budget as a whole and all budgets, the cabinet is now taking the right steps and making a good start with the investment in it. I also have a fixation on that pay gap less than Mr Asscher. So I share a lot of what he said with him, but not exactly in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u142	Finally. You can call it fixation, that's not the case. It's just a very real problem, which a lot of parents suffer from today, because there are classes without master or teacher. We can't let that happen. That is not Haags, that is not fixation, we have to do something about it, and that wage really plays a role in that. I'm not asking you to solve that all at once today. I've already complimented you on the extra money. I challenge you, let us take the next step, perhaps not for this budget but for the next budget. If we don't do that now, the problem of this shortage of teachers is getting bigger and bigger. So I hope that with you I will be able to achieve something of a result. I think we'll do something good for the generation that depends on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u143	Teachers are ultimately the most important thing for the quality of education, no matter what skills they need to learn. When you speak to primary school, you see that the need is high. The workload is enormous and there are far too few colleagues. An important reason for this is that the salary is too low, that it does not keep pace with secondary education. So the analysis is there. Why didn't Mr Dijkhoff just say here that that's a problem, that the salary in primary education is too low?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u144	I didn't deny it was a problem. I have only recognised that the cabinet is taking steps and that more elements play a role in this, which I will continue to look at in conjunction with each budget. But I haven't denied that that's a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u145	If you indicate that that plays a role, if you see what the problems are there, if you start your story with education, which is fantastic, then I don't understand that you can settle for a cabinet, when it goes very well with economy, which doesn't pay the full amount for the primary education needed to recover there. To ensure that teachers there earn enough, that the teacher shortage is resolved. That is why teachers in primary education are taking massive action and throughout the public sector, because the cabinet does confess "we see the problems" but does not allocate all the resources needed to do so. Why does Mr Dijkhoff choose to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u146	If I do my job by looking at what I would like by budget and making promises or raising expectations, then I am not responsible in my role as group chairman. Then I am raising the suggestion that it can all be done. It is really not the case that a VVD person always has a list where the budget only has surpluses and says 'let's pay off, because we want to spend so little money'. No, our sum of wishes per budget would also lead to huge deficits, because we want to spend more money than there is. So the next step you have to make is making choices, balancing and dividing. This means that you can never solve a problem immediately, as far as money can already offer a direct solution. That must be preceded by the analysis and targeted spending. So yes, Mr Klaver will not hear me say that I am satisfied with every part. So I assess the whole budget in coherence and balance, and I think that the cabinet makes good choices in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u147	In recent years, net savings of some 30 billion have been made. A lot has happened in that public sector. Those teachers have accepted that, they've just been working on it and keeping things going. When the economy is doing very well and you see that money goes to these big companies, for example the dividend tax, people stop taking it and then they act. Mr Dijkhoff can now say 'we must look at the balance sheet in the budget, that is my responsibility as chairman of the group'. Your responsibility is to stand up for those hardworking Dutch in that public sector. They don't get enough from this cabinet, they don't get enough help to do their job properly, to give your and my children the education they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u148	Putting public and private people against each other all the time does give a wrong idea of how society works. If the public sector is not working properly, if we do not have good care, education and safety, then the economy is not going to work either. But if the economy is not working properly and if we do not see that we are maintaining and strengthening it, even in the longer term, then again we have no money, no tax money, to pay for care, education and safety. So they belong together, they go hand in hand, and they have to get up together, out together and home together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u149	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u150	There is no one here who says "you know what, let's forget about business." There is really no one here in this Chamber who says "employment in the private sector is not important." But we do not support the choices made by the cabinet to help private business. Because we do not know whether, even more so, because it is actually clear that this has no effect on employment. That this does not create more activity and more people at work. What we do know, if we were to invest much more in education, the police, the care, then we would finally give people back what we have taken from them over the last few years, their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u151	You may respond briefly, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u152	The irony is that Mr Klaver concludes with the words 'their job'. There's got to be jobs. And to do so, you need to strengthen the economy and sometimes take measures that are going to bear fruit in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u153	I too have a question about education, primary education in this case. Personal freedom is high on the agenda of the Party for Animals, as is Mr Dijkhoff's party. My little girl went to third grade in September. She's gonna learn how to read and how to do math. She has to deal with a zero measurement of how she stands now and she will get 24 tests for her in the coming year. 24 keys! The child is 6. That is the education of today in the Netherlands. When I ask the teacher what she thinks of that, she says: it has to be done; the children have to be compared in one way or another. We've all created some kind of state mold where children have to stay inside. Does it fit within the VVD's vision to give personal freedom and individual development all the space?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u154	Yes, it is, because development usually also suggests progress. If a child develops less well, the child deserves extra attention. But one way or another you have to look at the development and the progress in it. I used to hate math tests too, but I'm glad I've had them all and done them. It didn't make me any worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u155	This is the syptom of our society: technocratization, rationalisation of man, that people can be measured by all sorts of tests that give a kind of false reality. In particular, it tests for cognitive intelligence, while there are so many other forms of development, such as creativity and spiritual wisdom. All these things don't come back to the education system. The teacher would like to have autonomy to give all the space for that, but now she is ruled by a state form in which mandatory tests are given to children aged 6 or 7. I think that is an impoverishment of education. I would like to invite Mr Dijkhoff, with his broad vision in this area, to think further about how we can bring the primacy back to the teacher, who will then have all the tools to get the best out of the child, without having to use all kinds of standardised technocratic means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u156	In order to shape a child properly, you need a mixture: there must certainly be room for creativity and personal development, but you must also offer the child protection and progress must be measured. We need to look at how someone develops to be able to intervene more when things are less. If the behavior is less because of too little challenge, you have to be able to get it out. It is important that you can offer children what they are entitled to. If you don't find out for 10 years, it's too late. You can't rewind and start over. Precisely because the child's development is so crucial and important, you will need to have a mix of more freer elements in education and always have to be able to measure how a child develops, to help that child progress best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u157	So Mr Dijkhoff actually thinks that this system with all these idiotic tests is a better system than what our grandparents and parents got in the schools? At least in a number of schools they got much more space. That's where teachers could decide for themselves what happened. We can, of course, have an inspection to monitor its quality. But at least there should be more room for the individuality of a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u158	I think it depends very much on which parent or grandparent you speak and what education it has had. I also know a lot of stories where this was indeed much better. In the end, it's not about the system that matters to me, it's about how these kids can develop best. If there is a moving insight into that or there are other methods to measure it, then I am open to it. But I don't want to immediately raise the whole idea of a test-free school to the greatest ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u159	I'd like to touch on Marianne Thieme's point. I do not understand why Mr Dijkhoff does not simply say: all these lists are ridiculous and we must get rid of them. There has been a crackdown on bureaucracy, especially in the public sector. Whether it's caregivers dealing with check-off lists, whether they're our agents, or they're our teachers; they're all saying the same thing: please give us plenty of colleagues, plenty of time and sufficient trust; that really benefits quality. But then my point. Mr Dijkhoff denounced the opposition between the public and the private sector and that it was being staged. But I think that's the point. We have had a crisis over the last ten years. What did we see? The profits of companies are high. Shareholders' payments are higher than ever. Business reserves are also high, but who paid the bill? The rents have gone up. People need to work longer, but especially the people in the public sector. The nursing homes are closed. We have just talked about a pay gap in education. Does Mr Dijkhoff recognise that ten years after the crisis it is precisely time for real investment in the public sector and that we need to rebuild that public sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u160	I agree with both points. That's why the cabinet invests so much in the public sector. I do not think that many entrepreneurs will recognise that they have not been affected by the crisis and that they have not bled, but a crisis does indeed mean that, if we all make less money, we have to adjust expenditure. Then we must also cut back on the public sector. In order to prevent this, we need to ensure that the economy is as strong as possible, as crisis-proof as possible, and that we spend the money prudently so that we can cope with setbacks. As far as the professionals are concerned, I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen. I'm not saying more tests are always better. I just distanced myself from the idea that it never helps. What I often notice in conversations is that we suffer from, I call it, a private bureaucracy. The other day a health care professional said: I went to the Ministry, to the Minister, we made agreements, the rules can be removed. Six months later, he comes across the same rules, not because of the government, but because it went wrong somewhere in the private sector in between. We need to zoom in on that. We really need to pay attention to this, otherwise we think that we are doing it neatly with limited rules, while, as a result of a certification system that has been devised itself, or by trying to stop new entrants, thresholds are being created that lead to bureaucracy. That's what you see coming back to the public sector. I am very motivated to zoom in on that in the years to come. That is what we need to do, because that is better for people's job satisfaction than what we can do with budgets here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u161	Nice words from Mr Dijkhoff. We're going to invest in the public sector. However, we have heard that yesterday and at other times. The point, however, Mr Dijkhoff, is that we are coming out of ten years of crisis. You have to fix that. You say that we are now going to invest in the public sector. Then what is your answer to the question that we may be on the verge of one of the greatest actions in the public sector? Do you think those teachers, cops, and caregivers are gonna take action for fun?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u162	No, I don't think so. I also think they're smart enough to understand what efforts have been made and to appreciate them. But that they need more and that they express it, I respect that. But Mrs Marijnissen indicates that we are just coming out of a crisis and that it is therefore time to look forward again. Unfortunately, a crisis doesn't work so that, when it's over, you can catch up with that ten years at once and then you'll be back at where you were. If you lose that kind of thing, it takes time to rebuild it, but it all has to be paid out of the economy in the end. That's where we get our tax dollars. So the economy has to run for a while and then you get income. Then you can invest. You've got to do that very smartly and purposefully. You shouldn't have the idea that it's just gonna help put more money on a budget. That is why I would like to pay more attention in the coming years to filtering out these obstacles, because they make the work less fun. And they also ensure that the euro that we think we are giving here to the lecturer, the caregiver or the policeman on the way is left little by all kinds of intermediate layers that we have sometimes created ourselves, after a motion or an incident. We must therefore also be critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u163	I hear Mr Dijkhoff talking about smart and efficient. I'm thinking back to his previous cabinet, the previous VVD cabinet, Rutte II. Then 77.000 people who worked in health care lost their jobs because of the cuts, because nursing homes had to close and home care was halved. Now we, Minister De Jonge, hear first: yes, we cannot find anyone in the care, but people are needed. When will you acknowledge that the cuts, precisely the laying of the accounts in the public sector, have been wrong? Perhaps today or later that greatest action could ever be avoided on 2 October, but does Mr Dijkhoff recognise that much more is needed than is currently the case? However, there is still a reduction in the burden on business, just like gifts for foreign shareholders, while teachers who make a very reasonable demand, namely a decent salary and a sufficient number of colleagues, are not being met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u164	That is what we are responding to, but we do not fully agree with it. Mrs Marijnissen makes it a little too easy by pretending that only the public sector has suffered under the crisis. Of course, that's not true. I'm not proud of it, but the charges went up, too. That's what we're all fixing now. I also hate that there was a crisis, but you can't just pretend that you could have said in those crisis years: you know what, we keep spending, we just keep doing it and then it's gonna be okay, because it's a temporary rain shower that blows itself over. It is hard work, it requires sacrifices from many Dutch people, but then you can come out of the crisis and go rowing again. We are now in that final stage, and this must be done with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u165	This public sector is now in crisis due to the significant interventions in recent years. In recent years, several politicians have constantly said: we are going to solve it, we are going to make things better by removing bureaucracy and then money will be released. In the end, it didn't work out. I understand very well that people who are now working in that public sector say: it is enough. We need money now. At the same time, I think that we should work towards eliminating bureaucracy, which everyone wants. But if Mr Dijkhoff's strategy really is to say to all those thousands of people in the public sector who are about to demonstrate 'we are going to work to get rid of bureaucracy and so we are going to make extra money available', then I say to him: they are not going to fall for it. That's not enough. Additional money will have to be added, even in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u166	They're not gonna fall for that. I'm not saying that at all. I have just pointed out that there are more needs and concerns than just the salary and the money. Those people do not fall for it either if Mr Klaver pretends it was a kind of easy choice in the crisis years to cut back on it, as if Mr Klaver at the helm could have gone a lot differently. You have supported some of those packages, Mr. Klaver, and rightly so, because we need to get back on our feet. I think people can see that we're doing something, but we're also more concerned. I think they say 'we're not just going to say thank you for what's going on' 'that doesn't have to be done at all, for the sake of clarity 'but we're going to make our voices heard about what else we want, because we have to do our work every day with a lot of bureaucracy'. I don't want to take away that bureaucracy because it would free money. It would be fantastic if it worked out, but usually it costs something to track down and solve problems first. So there's no link to money; there's an annoyance there that people have that I'm motivated to take away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u167	An important problem that now exists in health and education, and for example in youth care and the police, is that there are too few colleagues to do the job. There aren't enough colleagues. For that, more people will have to come in first. You need to spend more money on that. The people I speak to from the public sector understand very well that savings have been made in recent years. They knew: we are in a crisis in this country, we are going to carry it together and we are going to pull the Netherlands out together; I understand that my profession is being cut back. But now that things are getting better and they see that billions are going to large business and that the dividend tax is being abolished for EUR 2 billion, people are not going to accept it anymore. Then they get the feeling: why have we paid so much in recent years, why have we worked so hard, why have we almost gotten overwhelmed and why has the cabinet not chosen the full 100% for us? In doing so, Mr Dijkhoff, you damage people's confidence in democracy and politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u168	I think trust is also damaged if we fight each other's motives here and increase things and stick to fairness. Yes, I'm making different choices than Mr. Klaver. I'm not making a one-sided choice. We spend more money on reducing burdens and we spend more money on investing in the public sector than on measures for business. But people also know that in ten years' time we will have to have money, and no less than 2 billion, for the public sector and for other things such as relief. This requires that you now make choices that respond to the developments that are taking place. I would not want the dividend tax to continue. Maybe you'll have 1.9 in the next few years and maybe less. At some point, the economic situation is getting worse, we are losing a lawsuit, it is being abolished and we are now losing business and jobs. Then our economy will be weakened and we will have to look for money at once and cut back to cover the dividend tax abolished by legal rulings. That scenario is also very real and I want to avoid it, like other negative scenarios. That is why I support this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u169	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u170	It is very interesting to see how the argument changes every time it comes to the dividend tax. Now it's about not being legally sustainable. There have been changes in 2008 and the dividend tax has become legally sustainable as it currently exists. But Mr Dijkhoff is ignoring an important point. People who work in the police, care and education have been paid a huge price during the crisis: doing much more work with fewer colleagues. Now that things are finally going well, we are all doing everything we can here, but we are doing everything we can to make sure that these colleagues get back to work. It may be something of enlightenment, but the water is now so close to their lips that people are falling over. That is why my final question to Mr Dijkhoff. Does he acknowledge, will he acknowledge, that there is a crisis in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u171	"Doing everything," "crisis." That's beautiful rhetoric, but it's really bullshit if you're gonna promise people that. You can never do everything for everyone, there is no such thing. You have to make choices. We do a lot for these people. We are also doing a lot for those other people who do not work in the public sector and who have also had to bleed in the crisis, who have had to leave a spring and who have seen their burdens increase. For them, we're going to lighten the burden now. We are also doing a lot to ensure that we have a strong economy in the future where we can pay it all back. I believe that there is a lot to be done in the public sector, that there are things that cannot be solved with money alone. That is what we must work on in the coming years. As a party, we will also pay attention to this. We'll help make analyses. I don't have the arrogance that we can do that alone. But "crisis," "doing everything" is great for canteens, but it's not a real way of speaking to people if you want to be political and honest that you have to make choices because there are multiple interests and you can never do anything for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u172	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u173	I hear a repetition of the same views. Finally, I should like to say a word about this. Mr Dijkhoff has now spoken for five minutes and replied to almost 45 minutes of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u174	If banks are falling over, we'll talk about crisis. If people in the public sector are falling over, you should also speak of a crisis. That is why I ask you once again: is Mr Dijkhoff prepared to acknowledge that there is a crisis in the public sector? Because only if you acknowledge that will we be able to work towards a solution to ensure that the public sector can stand up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u175	Really, it doesn't help anyone at all, and it doesn't motivate anyone to say they're in a crisis. A crisis with banks and the economy? That's what parameters are for, that's science. If you see a certain graph a few times, it's called a crisis, although it doesn't help to call it a crisis. I believe, even without calling for the word 'crisis', that there is enough urgency to invest in the public sector. That is also what is happening to improve it and to improve the work of the people who work in it and that there is more room for their professionalism. I would like to contribute to this in the years to come. I think that's what a lot of people want here, so it's supposed to offer perspective. But I leave words such as 'crisis' and 'everything for everyone' to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u176	It's pretty distinctive. Mr Dijkhoff is relaxed in it, so he also responds to Jesse Klaver's justified question. I think it is indeed experienced as a crisis that there are so few colleagues and people are falling down from the workload. For people personally, at least it's a big drama. Then you cannot say, "Yes, but we do it wisely. We're gonna abolish the dividend tax, because in ten years' time, we're gonna lose the money. No, we've already lost the money; well done!" That is a flute: gamble money with the argument'maybe I'll lose it in ten years'. Of course, you shouldn't do it like that. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is: outside the United Kingdom, which countries have abolished the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u177	It is precisely the United Kingdom that is at stake. Mr Asscher always gambles at me on the fact that I have called it a gamble. That's his right, fine, he gets to do it. But then he must also be so honest about it that his choice to maintain the dividend tax also entails risks. Then he shouldn't pretend it's some kind of natural law that you can spend 2 billion every year up to the length of years. Then he should not pretend that the dividend tax is not under pressure, that it is not tens of thousands of legal cases, yes, about the past, but also about the present. Then he should not pretend that there are no other countries that still have the dividend tax, such as Denmark, where they lose business. It is not for nothing that people spend a lot of money on lawyers because they think they have the chance to win the case because the dividend tax is badly related to Union law. Then I think: these are also factors, regardless of the opportunities that the Brexit offers to keep companies here and to bring companies here, hopefully, to make this decision now, at a time when you can also combine it with billions of reliefs and billions of investment in the public sector, so that you can have a stronger economy, longer than our political life here, where you can make money for care, education and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u178	This really tends to be a bit arrogant. Because either Mr Dijkhoff is so incredibly smart or not just me, but a large part of this Chamber and 80% of the Dutch are extremely stupid that we don't get it. Because Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany, all countries around us, where there are also very smart people, almost as smart as Mr Dijkhoff, do have a dividend tax. You can spend that money in the Netherlands, where it has to be spent. I would remind you that it is a gamble, as you said last year. It's not gonna get any better. You're throwing the money into the sea, arguing "maybe we'll lose it in ten years." You are the only one on the mainland of Europe who does that. It's a waste of money. That money must be spent, in the Netherlands, for the people who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u179	Let's stay the only one. Then the chances of foreign capital coming here are even greater. I prefer the money from those foreign investors in the Netherlands. Then we can do good things with it and we can also tax it if they have activity here. We can do nice things with that for us. I want to keep our economy strong. I want it to stay bigger than you would suspect on the basis of the size of our country. We've been doing that for centuries, and we haven't been doing that for centuries by sitting around waiting a little bit. We do that by showing courage and making choices, even by making choices that are difficult, about which not everyone agrees and what people who are smarter than I do. It's all possible, but in the end, it's my job to make choices. I'm standing in front of that, and I'm not gonna run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u180	In fact, I would suggest that Mr Dijkhoff should continue with his speech. Then you will be the first to intervene, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u181	I would like to respond because the word 'gambling' fell in this debate with Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u182	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u183	I will keep my question brief. Mr Dijkhoff referred to the abolition of the dividend tax in an earlier debate on this issue as 'a gamble'. We saw yesterday that the Council of State is saying that there must indeed be a better basis for this. What's it like to be right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u184	Fantastic. It would have been even nicer if they had written that the non-draw-off of the dividend tax is also a gamble. As a politician, you don't always have to deal with two choices that both offer certainties or whose effects are predictable. Sometimes, based on your analysis of the economy, your political analysis of society and your assessment of it, you have to make a choice between two uncertain paths. That's what we do here. If you make that choice, you have to stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u185	I would now like to give you an opportunity to ask a question on this subject, Mrs Marijnissen, on the taxation of dividends. I suggest that you proceed with your speech, Mr Dijkhoff, otherwise it will come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u186	Mr Dijkhoff's statement is that it is a gamble to abolish it and that it is a gamble not to abolish it. The Council of State says it needs to be better substantiated. Meanwhile, there is hardly anyone in the Netherlands who thinks this is a good idea. My question to Mr Dijkhoff today is: is he prepared to indeed look for arguments for the proposal to abolish the dividend tax, as requested by the Council of State? Is he prepared to do so and not to push this further into Parliament with a limited majority of one seat, or does Mr Dijkhoff say: no, the dividend tax will be abolished, as we heard yesterday in the speech of the throne?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u187	I liked the sound of that last one. All the support I need, I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u188	Then I conclude that Mr Dijkhoff says: I do not know very well either, because it is a gamble to do so and it is a gamble not to do so. The Council of State says: better support this. There is no decent expert, economist or official in the Netherlands who says this is a good idea. And yet Mr Dijkhoff says here today: no, this is so important to me that I push this through with my limited majority. I believe that Mr Dijkhoff is not only taking a gamble with the EUR 2 billion, but also with the confidence that people have in politics in The Hague. I hope he's aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u189	To put the people who are in favour of abolishing the dividend tax and who have arguments for doing so immediately as indecent. I'm gonna distance myself from that. Besides, it's a gamble, whichever one you do. I don't believe in fortunetelling. No one can write a report now that says what happens in ten years' time when you do A or B. Mr Wilders once asked for such a report on the nexit. We are talking about this now after years, because we were not really convinced that the report was so fantastic, except for Mr Wilders himself. So there's not gonna be a report like that for any of the scenarios. At some point you have to say as a politician: I make a choice, I make an analysis, I have an argument and that's what we're going for. If it turns out that way, then companies stay here, we can attract companies and strengthen our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u190	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u191	Talk about security and the fact that you can't always guarantee it. I was talking about the fact that the permanent contract goes further down in our society and that we should also be honest about the fact that that contract was never as firm as the word suggested. But I admit, it did make me feel good. I recognize it myself from the old days. At some point, you had a permanent contract. It also said you could leave, but it was easier at the bank and everything. I do not believe that we can stop the future and that we must now promise people that the fixed contract will come back as standard. That is not the case if we go along with time and want to preserve prosperity. But that's not the whole story, because what do we say now? Now, do we say, "Your permanent contract is gonna be flex"? For some people in this country, that's delicious... who think that's fantastic... but it doesn't make a lot of people feel comfortable. 'Cause what does it mean? Okay, there are more jobs so you have easier jobs. But then what? If you have a job, do you lose your job with one phone call? Suddenly you don't have any money for the next few months? Can't you run errands for your kids anymore? Are you losing your house? That's not flex, that's stress. I think it is very good that the social security cabinet is very busy getting to and talking about pension reforms and the payroll approach, but we have much more to do. Our system of social security is still: either you have a job or you are unemployed. If we tell people that their work is changing, that it is becoming more flexible with less predictable patterns, that they are perhaps doing more about their development for a while than their work, that there are not always jobs for them, then the insurance models and social security should also be adapted to them. This should not be on or off, but it should also be more flexible, so that people can assume that in the future, with less fixed patterns and with less fixed contracts, they will still have a solid basis to set up their lives. A fixed basis for when there is less work or when there is time to rethink your skills, to be able to get back to work faster later. A firm basis to give the people who really do their best in society to keep working, when things are a little disappointing. So extra security for the people who are doing everything they can to get back to work as soon as possible. That's how it's supposed to be in a modern economy. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether it can respond to this and how it can shape such models that we need so much to provide new security. Mr. Chairman. As a third element, there are the external risks to which we must also have an answer. I'm a huge fan of free trade. I would love to see all the tariffs in the world go to zero and all the countries compete under the same conditions. But I can't promise my daughter that this will be the case by 2050. In fact, I can see it going the wrong way now. I see countries like the US, once an ally in free trade, taking protectionist measures. I see China competing unfairly at the expense of its own people. I think we should put something on the other side of that. The Netherlands is an economically very strong country, but we are not just strong enough to fight against the rest of the world on our own. I would ask the Cabinet to work hard to have an agenda at European level. What should the European response be to China and the US? How do we keep as much free trade as possible without being naive? How do we protect our position against populist protectionism and aggressive state capitalism? Mr. Chairman. In my view, a healthy economic future rests on these three pillars: education for the jobs of the future, new security in the labour market and realistic dealing with anyone who hinders free trade. Only in this way can we ensure that our small country continues to fight above weight, that we remain one of the world's absolute top and that our economy remains so large that we can continue to pay for loving care, robust safety and good education. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second big topic I'm curious about before 2050: the climate. Addressing the consequences of climate change is the next major challenge we have to tackle for my daughter's generation. That subject is important to the VVD. Science teaches us that we have to act. We do so, but we do so in an optimistic and entrepreneurial way. Here too, we must be realistic: the climate goal does not justify all the means. We also need to count on innovation, pay a great deal of attention to the basis of support and to take account of people. This is necessary in order to achieve truly sustainable solutions. We have set ourselves a huge task with the climate law. If you see the calculations that are presented immediately, it will cost a lot of money and people are wondering: does it make sense, because if we are all going to do it and the countries around us aren't, aren't we a little crazy? Yeah, actually, I do. That is why I would ask the Cabinet not only to look at the impact of the climate agreement on the Netherlands and our own law, but also to ensure that other countries make the efforts they are being asked to do and what they have signed up for, and to ensure that we keep pace with the countries around us, so that we do not end up with a devastating economy while the neighbors emit heavily and we have become dependent on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u192	Are you going to say anything else about the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u194	Then I suggest you finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u195	Mr. Chairman. Then the question is: do we have to spend all our money ourselves as Dutch people in order to achieve the goals as quickly as possible? Well, no. We have to invest, but we also have to count on innovation. 2050 is far away. It's about as far away from now as 1986. Today's problems are not solved with the 1986 technology, with the technology from the era of cassette tapes, shoulder pads and Wham!. So 2050 we're not fixing with today's technique either. That is why I call on the Cabinet to keep in mind that we cannot fill in everything now, that we need to encourage techniques that you are not 100% sure are going to make, but that if they succeed, they can contribute much more than the techniques we know now, and to have an attitude that is technologically neutral and not to add all kinds of hobbies and preferences to them. Set clear targets for business, targets for the end result. How much less should be emitted? Maintain those goals well and give the room to see how you achieve those goals and what fits best. In addition, it would be good if the project of sustainability did not look only at the big blows. There are now a lot of people in the Netherlands who want to participate but who do not necessarily want to give up everything for it. It is up to us to bring people into this and to reassure them, because this brings with it concerns that directly affect your household and your family. Does that mean everything's going to be okay now? Is there no other interest than sustainability? Are they going to decide in The Hague how many times I can go on vacation or how long I can take a shower? When I hear some colleagues or fanatics, I have to say that I sometimes wonder if they want to go that way. I don't want that. I also understand why people are wondering what the hell is coming at them when they read in a crazy press release that everyone has to get rid of their résumé kettle within a few years. I also understand that people who want to do something now think: but how then, what does it get me, what is wise and when? Frankly, I also speak from my own experience. I'm remodeling and I'm doing the best I can, but finding the right information and solutions is still quite a job. My appeal to the cabinet is therefore concrete: guide people to simple calculation tools that allow them to see what is sensible for them and how they can contribute to CO reduction. Also offer them an objective information agency that is just as familiar and well-known as, for example, the Food Centre. Then give people who they can trust as contractors, installers and advisors. Encourage solutions that are accessible to everyone and not just for people who have all the peaks ready to build panels or who can easily get an energy savings loan. I would like to ask the cabinet, in addition to, I know, chewing up the major tasks that already exist, and letting the Chamber know how it thinks it can take people, but also the market, and how it can take away the fuss that is still there now if you want to contribute to a sustainable future. In short, Mr President, as far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to fix this climate problem. We're gonna fix it quietly and we're definitely gonna fix it and that's gonna have to be step by step. And the people at home, business and government will have to do it together and rely on new inventions as humanity has always done new inventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u196	Mr Dijkhoff talks about climate change. I would also like to congratulate his party for taking part in the Climate Act and for agreeing at least that the climate is an important task. It is, of course, extremely important to support people. How do you make sure you get through this huge transition and everyone's going through it? What I don't understand when I read the cabinet's plans is that this year's energy bill is going to go up sharply by cutting the government's energy discount. This does not contribute to the sustainability of our energy supply, but people's energy bills are getting higher. Why does the cabinet choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u197	It's an element in the approach. It's one that I think you shouldn't push too far. Consumption is taxed and the energy bill of people who consume a lot increases. The transition that comes from gas to electricity must also be done with caution to prevent the support from being eroded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u198	Something else is going on here: a fixed foot is being abolished. Everyone got the same amount. That means a low-income guy got a lot more than a high-income guy. The effect of the government's measure to abolish this energy discount is not that less energy will be used, it is not that people will switch to a more sustainable home. No, the effect is that the bill goes up. I understand that when people see that, they think, "What the hell, what happens now, my place isn't getting any better, I just have to pay more?" But this is in this cabinet's plans. Next year, nothing about sustainability will happen, you might say, but this is what we're in. Is Mr Dijkhoff prepared to see how we can get this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u199	My fear is that the energy bill is becoming even more dependent on income. That should not be mixed into that too. That dependence was there, however, as Mr Klaver explains with the difference with the fixed foot. I don't think you should be making income policy through the energy bill. In fact, for me, it is precisely the big scare that we will soon have windmill profits for people who had left to invest, and an energy surcharge for the lowest incomes that will allow the middle to pay it all again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u200	Very often I have been asked: why are you actually called GroenLinks and wouldn't it be a bit hipper if you were just called "Green"? That is exactly why we are called GroenLinks. If you only want to conduct climate policy without having the courage to talk about income policy; if you just want to talk about how we're going to reduce CO2 without talking about how we're going to ensure that prosperity in the Netherlands is fairly divided, you're going to make a huge division in the Netherlands. The measures you are going to take to make it more sustainable also make it sometimes more unfair, for example when the energy bill gets higher. People with lower incomes pay a greater share of their income in energy costs. If we do not ensure that this does not happen and indeed do not have income policies, even when it comes to the energy bill, then you are losing acceptance. That is what I am addressing Mr Dijkhoff. If you really want this transition to work, you should also be willing to pursue income policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u201	Two things. I know that we are a right-wing party within this spectrum, but we have a political culture in the Netherlands which leads to the fairest distribution of income in Europe, I believe, with the right-wing parties. You can say that it can be even fairer, but I think that at some point there should be a balance between the fair distribution of income, the rewarding of work and the non-taxation of higher incomes. In addition, I think that you should not pursue income policy, but a solution policy. I do want products to come for people who can't go, because they don't have the money to invest in measures themselves. We can see in new buildings that someone else just says, okay, I'll freeze your account; you'll pay me from now on and I'll make that investment. I would like to ask the cabinet to bet that those kinds of products, which may not be able to make it right away, are encouraged. The point is that you are not dependent on your income to participate in sustainability. You do the other way around income policy when it comes to the people who are already not broad, who are in the middle and who cannot make that investment. In this way, I want to prevent the sustainability of the energy bill from creating distortions, and not through income policy on the energy note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u202	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u203	Income policy is being pursued. This cabinet chooses to raise the energy bill for people this year. That's what it chooses. It's in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u204	Yeah, and lower labor costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u205	It will make sure that account is increased. That's more of a pressure on low-income people. You can't compensate for that with tax rebates. What happens is that the cabinet makes sure that the energy bill gets higher, that the Netherlands doesn't become more sustainable and that people think: wait, if this is the way climate is being worked, then it happens without me. That's in this budget. I would like Mr Dijkhoff and I to be side by side in the fight to ensure that everyone is going through this transition. I really do not understand what Mr Dijkhoff is trying to say here. This cabinet increases people's energy bill and does nothing about improving the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u206	Mr. Klaver understands very well. That is why he can also provide counter-arguments. We simply disagree on whether to use the energy note to create additional income policies, on top of the tax system in which we have been doing this for four years. I see other routes to prevent expensive sustainability leading to new divisions. That is something we must be careful about, because that would indeed undermine the basis of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u207	I welcome the fact that Mr Dijkhoff is asking the cabinet to set up an agency, or to provide guidance to people in a different way in making sustainable choices. They'll know what they can do to lower the carbon footprint. He also mentioned that the Food Centre might be a good example to look at. Now we already know that our fork and our knife are the most important weapons against climate change. It's about what we have on our plate. I have often spoken with Mr Dijkhoff about the fact that this cabinet also recognises that meat is the most environmentally damaging part of our food package. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that we should ask the cabinet not only to see how to get water-saving shower heads or how to register on solar panels, but also to provide information on how to consume climate-friendly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u208	I think providing information on this is fine. People can make their own choices. That last one's a priority for me. You don't have to feel guilty when you light the barbecue, but there's nothing wrong with it when people know the consequences of choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u209	I understand that Mr Dijkhoff's question of how we can guide people also means how we can get to sustainable consumption of food and how people can make good choices in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u210	To be honest, that is not what my question was about. Most of all, I was just moving myself into my job clog for the weekend. I am EnvironmentCentral and private initiatives such as Energy Savers and GreenHome will build confidence by putting a lot of time into it. Then I think, well, that's exactly what you should want. I'm one of those geeks who's gonna make bubbles. Fortunately, most people in the Netherlands don't look like me. You'd just like to know: okay, if I go there, I'll be referred and then I can trust it, because it's been checked. I wouldn't record this element on the same site, so someone looking for double glass would immediately get a story about meat. Information on the effects of certain consumption patterns might be more likely to be part of the Food Centre. If you want to ask that question to the cabinet, I'm not going to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u211	That is exactly why I am asking this question. I do so in order to raise awareness here too about the fact that livestock farming is one of the most important sources of greenhouse gases. That's a blind spot, both here in the Chamber and in the Cabinet. That is why I think it is a good plan from the Cabinet........................................................................................................................................................................................................ So we have fewer animals that all emit CO. That's good. Now I read in the Millions Note that there is indeed EUR 120 million going to clean up these companies, but also that this environmentally unfriendly industry will receive at least EUR 60 million in grants. How is that consistent with the fact that the VVD is not so for subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u212	If you want a change in a particular sector that rewards other values more than just price efficiency, then as a government you have to help with that change and transition. We do that in several areas. So, yes, also in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u213	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u214	This cabinet promised in the government agreement that EUR 200 million would be used to get rid of the air pollution, the CO emissions caused by pig farms, that this money would be used to get those companies out of there. That will happen for EUR 120 million. How can we then be told that at least EUR 60 million will be used as a subsidy for stables? Then you're kidding the taxpayer, especially since we know that we'll eventually have to go down the herd, and it's probably a shame that we'll invest that money in stables that will have to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u215	In my experience, the Minister of Agriculture is developing a plan to spend that money as effectively as possible to meet the objectives of the government agreement. To be honest, I have not gone down one more level and went into the stables in Brabant to see what it does, but I think the Minister of Agriculture is just using that money for that and is therefore on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u216	I do expect Mr Dijkhoff to tell us why EUR 200 million does not go to that rehabilitation. I think we should have that explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u217	Yes, Madam President, if Mrs Thieme has that question and asks,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u218	Yes, through you. I should have explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u219	... then she gets that explanation anyway, and then I'll listen to it interestingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u220	I think Mr Dijkhoff is right to say that predictions about the future are always speculative. The same applies, of course, to the predictions about climate change. So if I hear him say "science has shown that..." then of course that remains speculative. Exactly how the climate would change, though, all these models for weather forecasts and climate change predictions are proving to be extremely difficult to predict. That's what it turns out all the time. Having said that, I would like to point out that the model we are working with today, which is used even by those who support the energy transition, recognises that climate warming is reduced by 0.00007°C if we take all those measures that cost billions. How does this have a relevant impact on climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u221	See, if you think it's all bullshit, and then that impact is irrelevant anyway. I think science really is more than: one opinion is worth the same as the other. That's a kind of fair and balanced I don't do about; we have two opinions and they're just as valuable. I am convinced that science is saying sensible things about this and has done those studies, that the goals are very ambitious and lead to significant changes if we all follow them and are not freeriders either. Because it's not just calculating what the Netherlands should do. That is why I have also stressed the need for the cabinet to keep an eye on keeping pace, especially with the countries around us, but with everyone who has signed the agreement. And then there's a joint impact because of what we can do now. If Mr Baudet says that we need to have a lot more impact, I think that is an interesting idea, but I think it goes beyond the scope of society in the Netherlands if we do more than we have set ourselves today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u222	It's hundreds of billions. You can spend that money on other things, too. So not the obsessive reduction of that beautiful gas CO, which is oxygen for plants, and that creates a huge greening. If you want greening, you need more CO. Ask the growers in the Netherlands who bring more CO into the greenhouses. That's gonna cause a huge greening. Anyway, we may disagree on that. But suppose you want to do something about transition; invest it in innovation, invest it in thorium, invest it in all kinds of knowledge and innovation in the Netherlands, better education and so on. Why the 0.00007 degree less warming up to hundreds of billions, when we're losing all those opportunities to make the Dutch economy more innovative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u223	My whole plea was to link this action and this transition to innovation, to make sure that we as the Netherlands, if you know that the whole world is doing this and going there, are so smart to offer our products and solutions just a little faster, so that you can even make money from it. It's not because, before the CO transition, I've forgotten how pleasant it is to make money with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u224	Yes, but that doesn't happen by taking the Netherlands off the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u225	Mr Baudet, Mr Dijkhoff has not finished talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u226	Off the gas? That's from the Groningen gas. And in the end, it would also be nice if you could sustain all the energy use. But it's not like we have a race now to stop using any gas in the Netherlands as soon as possible. In addition: the whole ode to CO from Mr Baudet. Look, you can of course mention the good aspects of a particular substance and a particular matter in essence. This is about measuring; we all need sugar and fat. Mr Baudet's speech is also to a limited extent to be welcomed. But if you have too much of something, it's going to have harmful effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u227	No one disagrees: "too" is never good. But the question is what is an optimal amount of COin the atmosphere, which is an open debate, which is considered differently. I have had extensive correspondence with scientists from the University of Princeton, who say: let it go quietly up to 1,200 parts per million atmospheric parts............................................................................................................................................ There is therefore a difference of opinion. But that's not the point I want to make. The point is: the VVD is putting heavy effort on, in fact, the full green agenda of GroenLinks. Hundreds of billions are invested in sustainability, but that does not lead to any effect at all. Even in the models that are highly dubious about climate change, this does not lead to any measurable effect. Why does the VVD do that? Why is the VVD obsessive about helping the Netherlands heat pumps, which are going to cost €20,000 per household? Why is the VVD obsessive about reducing the gas, when the whole world is moving towards the gas, because that is the most clean form of energy extraction? And finally, why does the VVD think that it is possible to persuade the countries around us to do this absurd policy, while America has long been out of the game, China is out of the game, India is out of the game...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u228	Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u229	The countries that are really devoid of fossil fuels have long since ceased to participate. This is crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u230	Mr. Chairman. India and China? It should be a brake on growth there. But when it comes to emissions per person, to get to that level, we still have something to do. It is not the GroenLinks agenda, it is our agenda. And GroenLinks is not 100% satisfied with it either. That's what compromise gets you. And if it is shared more widely, then it is no longer one person's, but a joint effort of all of us. Look, Mr. Baudet, I understand that, especially if you have a different opinion, you're gonna look at scientists who find something else and then you're gonna raise it to standard. In the end, I think this is a communist opinio in science. Nor am I concerned that we should first know what the optimum percentage of CO in the air is. The question I am asking is: is there too much now? Yeah, there's too much now. And that will certainly bring positive changes in now dry areas, which will therefore become greener. But if the rise in sea level is enormous, we in the Netherlands will have a huge amount of bad luck, unless we all become Snorkels at once, but I don't see that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u231	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u232	Yes, just a moment, Mr. Chairman, because I can't get an answer to my question. My question is: what is the point of the hundreds of billions that the VVD wants to invest in sustainable development, which is the obsessive reduction of CO emissions, if even according to the models of the proponents of this policy, the climate effect is 0.00007 degrees different? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u233	If the Netherlands can have such an impact all over the world. The point is: if we do that with several countries, which I mentioned, we can reduce CO emissions. That's better for our climate and our living environment. And if we start on time, we can also make our economy earn money with innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u234	Then I actually want to finish this piece on the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u235	I have not yet had the opportunity to put a question to Mr Dijkhoff on this block. And I can be brief, I'm actually curious about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u236	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u237	We have a winged expression in the Netherlands: the polluter pays. What does Mr Dijkhoff actually think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u238	For this we will have to find a model in which that is also more in the pricing of things. And we will also have to find a model in which industry contributes to this. 'Cause I'm guessing that's the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u239	Yeah, 'cause I just got off the phone with CBS when the discussion broke down here. From the first quarter of this year, households in the Netherlands are responsible for about a quarter of emissions, and companies are responsible for three quarters. What does Mr Dijkhoff think about the fact that research shows that companies in the Netherlands pay 2.8 billion less than what they emit, while households still pay 1.8 billion more than the extent to which they actually damage our climate and pollute our earth? What does Mr Dijkhoff think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u240	The ratio behind that is that companies also consume more to create economic value that we all benefit from. But I do agree that, in the coming years, business will also have to contribute to this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u241	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u242	I am glad that Mr Dijkhoff agrees. But then the question remains, which Mr Klaver also opened this debate with: why does this cabinet choose to increase the energy bill even further, instead of putting the 'polluter pays' principle into practice? Therefore, place the bill with the major polluters and ensure that the polluter will actually pay in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u243	In short, for the first part of the question, I refer to the answer I gave to Mr Klaver. And for the second part: the budget is now available, but the development of the climate proposals is not yet available. So it's going to have to say how the cabinet is going to deal with this together with society, and that's what we're going to test these things on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u244	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u245	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third issue. I saved it for the last time, but it's the most important thing to me. That's freedom. Because above all the things I want to pass on to my daughter in our beautiful country, freedom and equality are most important. And I must honestly say that I think that we are already lacking in this area, that we are already not achieving enough by integrating. Of course, many people integrate well, and we should also cherish that. But too many people are lagging behind. And that is, in fact, the most annoying thing for those people, namely that we allow them to be kept small. And people who are kept small by someone else, we have to help. The girl who sees her future all the way through her father. The child who, at the age of four, first goes to school, only hears Dutch for the first time. A guy who's gay, but knows he gets beat up by his neighbors when he comes out of the closet. Mr. Chairman. I believe that we cannot tolerate intolerance in the Netherlands. And we cannot accept that there are pieces of the Netherlands where values other than our free Dutch values are leading. And to be honest, I think that the cabinet, together with us, should free people who want to be free, but now be kept small, aimfully free, free. And I think we should also start with a very focused approach in the areas where freedom is the most limited, where poverty and insecurity are the greatest, where Dutch is the least spoken and where women are the least counted and involved. I would like to ask the cabinet to identify these areas and to free people there, to force children to learn Dutch as soon as possible, to force people to know our history, culture and values and to force girls to continue learning and women to work. Make the people so free as we're all supposed to be. Mr. Chairman. If the cabinet needs inspiration for a plan, I would say talk to your Danish colleagues. I went by there to look at their approach, to look into the neighborhoods. That approach is firm, but frankly it cannot be firm enough for me to offer people the freedom they deserve. I therefore call on the cabinet to study the Danish example and to send a response to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u246	In recent history, I do not always think Denmark is the best example, because the tolerance of right-wing extremistism in Europe has started there, I think. You'll see the aftermath of that. If I allow what Mr Dijkhoff put in the newspapers this morning to work in on me, I think the individual things are all very justified. For example: learn Dutch quickly. That's what this cabinet does, because the previous cabinet didn't want it to. Well, at least we're gonna do it now. Give girls a chance. I find it incredibly important that women have the same economic autonomy as men. There's a lot to do about that. But these are all measures that you take without regard for person or origin. Mr Dijkhoff said today that he was considering becoming a judge earlier. I wonder how judges, who did finish that training, will judge the idea that even a neighbourhood is now becoming a source and is therefore being profiled on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u247	Equal cases must be treated equally; unequal cases must be treated to the extent that they are unequal. Frankly, I think a targeted approach is necessary. Those generic approaches are also good and we should do so, but they simply maintain that there are children who come to school with a backlog that they will never catch up with for the rest of their lives. They make us do too little to girls who may just have a side job where they see all kinds of freed-up girls coming by the till, but who are not allowed to have that freedom and who know that when they come home, their daddy will tell them who to marry later, because he has already picked them out. As long as there is this inequality, as long as there are areas where it is dominant, I will soon tell you how to identify it, and that is not wet finger work and no gut feeling.............................................................................................................................................. That's what the judge's gonna look into.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u248	I will control my irritation over the almost known VVD-poginkje to name things that we are all concerned about, which is actually 80% of Mr Dijkhoff's answer because I am really interested in solutions and not in the search for neighborhoods and then stigmatizing them. You could take one step: how come those people ended up in those neighborhoods? How come in parts of urban development because of a lack of opportunities, due to lower rents, but often in worse homes, you get concentrations that are not solved? By saying: you went to live there or you had to live there and so you as a group are a problem and: you seem to have a unique culture that is a problem? I would like to know from Mr Dijkhoff, because he also calls on the cabinet to take a stand here, whether he really intends to label neighbourhoods as: you all have a problem here in terms of women's rights, children's rights and so on. If that's the case, I'm gonna announce it to you right now, and I'm gonna cross over for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u249	Mr Pechtold is now calling for a physical blockade for himself, but it does not come from the plan I have. This is the result of his own blockade, which I regret that when a VVD comes up with a plan, he already thinks: they will be like this again. No, they won't do anything. Groups don't integrate, that's what individuals do. There are individuals who would much prefer that, but who are kept small by their environment. I will explain later what criteria we use to identify these areas, if it is up to me. I also want to see whether the criteria of the Danes for the Netherlands are the most optimal. But if someone wants to be free in a neighbourhood and not that patriarchal oppressive culture, but wants to be free from it, we must be the first to reach out to those who are liberals to get out of it; we must help them. The people in that neighbourhood who are of good will, who suffer from crime, who have too few opportunities and who are lagging behind, we need to protect and elevate, to use a left-wing word, because that is basically what it is all about. I think it's time for that. I think we've thought for too long that it'll come naturally. Unfortunately, it doesn't come naturally. This is the biggest disadvantage for those people themselves, but it also has adverse effects for the rest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u250	Mr. Chairman. Just when you're society...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u251	There's a neighborhood in rebellion! Mr. Chairman. Just when you look at a society as individuals, you don't put groups away as a total problem. For you will live in the definition of Mr Dijkhoff but not in that neighborhood, but you will find that independence or have problems to feel as full, express and behave as a man as a woman. Then you have the VVD policy in the wrong neighborhood, because that neighborhood has not been labeled as a problem where we are going to deal with this generic. So you're gonna fall out there. Just when you see society as individuals, who we never put away as groups because of their origin, belief, age or whatever, you will have to seek the opportunities and problems of the individual. If there are problems, we have to deal with them, and if there are opportunities, we have to offer them. But the suggestion that this morning was woken up by the VVD, which fortunately is again being re-directed and nuanced by the communication department, that we are in neighborhoods where there is a problem that is going to be problematic with all of us, I am far from it. I say to the cabinet: read the coalition agreement carefully. So we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u252	Really: I think it's wonderful that Mr Pechtold is flaring off something that doesn't exist again. That's a real shame. That's a real shame today. That's a real shame. And if Mr. Pechtold says something is being taken back, no. If he reads the interview I gave, it says very well. If he then reads the press releases: yes, we did work on that. Because there was just something in there that wasn't right, so it makes sense that I correct that. If you're an individual in a neighborhood and you're one of the few with that problem, we'll help you too. That's what generic policy is for. But I just find it sinful and liberally impossible to accept that. If you know that there is a targeted problem somewhere, and more crime, you will get out of it even more difficult as an individual, even if you would want to, then we have to help the individuals there more. That's what I'm gonna put my approach to. And that's what you need to identify. I'm not going to stigmatize. That will also prove to be the case: I want a non-underbelly, non-stigma, scientific parameter support to see where we begin. We're not just doing it there. Where do the people, because of the nuisance they experience, need us more to taste freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u253	I believe that someone has referred to Mr Dijkhoff as a 'hyperindividualist'. Mr Dijkhoff has touched that, as I have seen in a letter. But this is actually a very collectivist approach: you reduce people to a neighborhood. I almost threaten to become a liberal myself: a human being is an individual after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u254	That's a win!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u255	Two. If Mr Dijkhoff says that the government must free people, then perhaps I will become even more of a liberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u256	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u257	From a government that's going to free people with some kind of program and force people into freedom, I'm also getting a little chilly. But we're all waiting for that. I would like to read good proposals and not rely on the three sentences that are said here. But there's a point about those neighborhoods. How come neighborhoods are lagging behind? This is largely about building. How varied are neighborhoods? This also has to do with, for example, the concentration of people with a lower income or with a certain cultural background. How important is it then to build varied and to have varied neighbourhoods? And how can it be that the VVD often obstructs if cities want to build varied and make different neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u258	This element is going to be included, and I also think it is important that we also highlight the opposite, namely the sale of social housing to people who can buy these homes and thus create a more sophisticated composition of that neighbourhood. Those are both elements that belong in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u259	Schools in neighbourhoods reflect those neighbourhoods themselves, so the more diverse a neighbourhood or school is, the more people live together. That is why it is extremely important to make neighbourhoods more diverse. If the municipality of Amsterdam then says that it wants to build social housing on the Zuidas, then it is the VVD that says no. It's the VVD that's gonna scaffold. The VVD says: no, the Zuidas must remain a kind of mono district with the well-earned gentlemen and ladies there. How beautiful is it when even the Zuidas becomes diverse? And if the Schilderswijk gets more diverse and there are also more expensive properties? That's the bet, isn't it? Then why is the VVD so often bothered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u260	You specifically mention the Amsterdam problem. I would like to talk about this point, but in return for the much more sales of social housing and the reduction of social housing as a whole, because Amsterdam has no shortage of it. So that's gonna have to come from both sides. Then there is what Mr Segers said earlier. My whole idea is that we talk too often about groups here. Now a neighborhood suddenly becomes a group. No, a neighborhood is just an area. And within that area, you have an approach. It can be aimed at groups or individuals. Too often the debate gets stuck here in accusations like 'they do not integrate', and it is right that the other group should say 'yes, but it seems as if they do not want us to be here'. We need to get rid of that. Groups don't integrate anyway; people within a certain environment do. And the more people integrate well, the easier it is for people around them to do the same. If you then see and register that there are certain areas or areas where that is more difficult, then I think you should take a targeted approach to the individuals there, to release them. That is what I advocate, precisely to get rid of the groups, because there are also a lot of individuals well integrated. They didn't have much use for policy either, but that didn't get in their way either. The only thing I'm more collectivist in... I do not want everyone to do the same, but I have noticed that the liberal approach, which depended very much on 'choose for freedom and for our values if you want to', together with the naive/arrogant idea that our freedom is so exciting that it is almost contagious and that everyone who wants to have has not produced enough results. This approach has not led to a country in which I see freedom increasing, even when it comes to people who come from less free cultures, and especially when it comes to women and girls. Yes, in the resources it may be a bit different than you are used to, but the ultimate goal, liberal society, where as many Dutch people as possible can really choose, taste and practice freedom, is my priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u261	We can find each other in removing barriers, in encouraging the taking of opportunities, in fighting when people break the law, when people are enslaved. But where there is a government that says: we are going to free you, I hope that does not end with me being the Liberal and not the VVD. We shall then wait and see. What I hope is that we can agree with each other that each district will take on an assignment to, of course through the government, set up about 30% social rent, to make neighbourhoods more diverse. In all these cities we ensure that people not only live side by side, that is the first condition, but also live together, as the King said yesterday. If the VVD gets past that side, I think we can actually talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u262	We will look at that aspect. On the contrary, I think that we should not focus again on the fact that we are going to redesign it for the whole of the Netherlands, but that we really need to focus on where the problems are most acute. You have to put out the fire where it burns, you have to free it, but the lack of freedom is the strongest, and concentrate energy on those neighborhoods and map them out. I'll be right back on how I see that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u263	I read that article in the daily newspaper this morning, and it scared me. I was thinking of two things. First of all, I thought: what a good trick of the VVD to distract from things like dividend tax, the multinationals that are favoured, the foreign shareholders that are favoured. Fine, that's their right. I also thought at the same time: Mr Dijkhoff is two days away from God and he comes up with such statements. For I read that he wants the cabinet to select neighbourhoods where there are more than 50% of the inhabitants of non-Western origin, where unemployment is high, where crime is high and where the level of education is low. I was wondering: how does that relate to a liberal who, just as in the answer you just gave, doesn't talk about groups but about individuals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u264	Because the individuals living in neighborhoods that meet those criteria, low incomes, high crime and a low understanding of the Dutch language, have the hardest time getting involved in society and being free. Because there, in those neighborhoods, there are more individuals that you first have to focus your attention on to make sure that those kids don't go to school with an unbridgeable disadvantage for the first time. That's why. It is a means to achieve an end and not a stigma. And you will also see that there are a lot of neighbourhoods that do not meet all those criteria, with a lot of non-Western immigrants, where income, language concepts and integration are fine. Then we'll get rid of that stigma, as if only your background leads to these things. That's why they're stacked criteria, to identify what we need to pay extra attention to first. At local level, in certain major cities, this is happening very much and it is working well. This is the turbo again to ensure that every Dutchman, whatever his origins, will soon be able to enjoy the freedom and make his own choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u265	But does Mr Dijkhoff understand that this simply reeks of postcode racism? You have a certain neighborhood, and if you live in that neighborhood, you'll be punished more severely than you do when you live in another neighborhood. What if you live...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u266	No, Mr President, that is not true, that is factually incorrect. I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u267	Mr Kuzu has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u268	I am curious how you will explain this later, but I am also curious to see how the VVD sees its own role in this. We do indeed have a number of problems in terms of unemployment in a number of neighbourhoods, in terms of educational attainment in a number of neighbourhoods. If the VVD is constantly voting against proposals where we fight hard against poverty, where we want to reduce the division and inequality of opportunity in education, if the VVD is constantly voting against such proposals, I do wonder. You cause some of the problems, and then you say: the groups that live in those neighbourhoods, that is what it is, and we must punish them more severely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u269	I'm sorry, but it's up to the VVD that there are people in the Netherlands who treat their daughters and sons differently and who don't give them opportunities, who don't teach their children Dutch, that's totally bullshit. The other aspect is, we are voting in favour of good proposals that help to tackle poverty disadvantages in a good way. We do not vote in favour of every proposal, and certainly not if it does not solve anything structurally, but is simply a symptom reduction. And then the point of the zip code thing. The proposal is not that people in such a neighborhood should be punished more severely if they break the law, but that people in such a neighborhood should be punished more severely wherever they live. That's to protect the people in that neighborhood. That neighborhood already has more crime to deal with than other neighborhoods. As a citizen of good will, you'll have a harder time living there. In order to eliminate the crime that is higher there, but at least bring it back to a semi-acceptable level that is similar to other districts, you have to show those people: we come here and we protect you; if the vulnerability of your neighborhood is abused by developing criminal activities, recruiting drug runners and other things, it will be dealt with harder. So it's not where you live, but where you break the law determines it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u270	We are talking about a number of neighbourhoods which Mr Dijkhoff believes should be selected. I wonder how that works in practice. There's a criminal activity going on. Then you'll be arrested by the police. You're coming with me to the police station. It's gonna be in court. And the judge has a verdict to make. Then he sees that it has been committed in zip code area so much, and then he says: oh, the punishment is not three months but six months, because it happened in that neighborhood. Then I wonder how you can reconcile that with the idea: we do it to protect the people in that neighborhood. No, the people in that neighborhood are victims of the double size you propose. I wonder if you are in favour of punishing criminal activities committed in certain neighbourhoods in a municipality such as, catch him, Wassenaar or Bloemendaal or Blaricum, where there is white-collar crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u271	Mr Kuzu is now saying that people living in such a neighbourhood are criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u272	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u273	That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u274	No. Mr President, that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u275	No, no, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u276	Mr. Kuzu, you say that the people living in that neighborhood suffer from double punishment. So you're saying the crime in that neighborhood is because of the people who live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u277	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u278	So you say. The people who are not criminals and who are victims of crime in a neighborhood where you are more likely to become victims, where there is more crime, where sometimes, when it is dark, street gangs and fucking kids on the street make the call, you have to protect by taking harder on the criminals who break the law there, like we also make a difference between beating up someone who is a cop or beating up someone who isn't. It's possible. We do this more often in our rule of law, precisely in order to protect extra vulnerable groups, and in this case extra vulnerable neighbourhoods. If you say that this leads to heavier penalties for the people in that neighborhood, you imply that they are the criminals themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u279	Finally, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u280	Words are put in my mouth that I haven't used at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u281	They came out on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u282	No, I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u283	Rewind it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u284	My question is: how does it work in practice? A criminal act is committed and then it comes before the courts. So if it happens in a certain zip code area, the penalty will be doubled. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u285	No. It focuses on neighbourhoods that can't have that much, where people are already suffering from more crime every day than in other neighbourhoods. If people want to escape the bad atmosphere, the bad conditions and the bad opportunities in such a neighbourhood, they already have a much harder time. So you protect those people just by saying: if the law is broken again in your neighborhood, then a heavier punishment will be given. I explicitly distance myself from what you make of it. You say, "If you live in a neighborhood like this, you're a criminal and you suffer more severe punishment." I'm sorry, but that's what you literally said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u286	Mr Kuzu, one final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u287	For me it is clear that this is postcode racism, where I see that the VVD is increasingly offensive against the PVV. I'd say quit the PVV-corvee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u288	It is up to Mr Kuzu to make it a cultural war at any time. But it is really reprehensible that he is now twisting a plan that is not aimed at protecting people in vulnerable neighbourhoods and ensuring that they can taste freedom to make a point. That is extremely cynical in the direction of all those children that we leave behind in those neighbourhoods, who cannot taste freedom, who do not learn Dutch and therefore have unbridgeable backlogs, which they still have to carry with them throughout their career and working life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u289	I also need to understand the proposal better, so Mr Dijkhoff has to explain it again. If criminal law changes, in the sense that the place where you commit the fact is decisive for its seriousness, then for example, someone who beat up an aid worker in Amstelveen commits a less serious criminal offence than someone who beat up an aid worker in Amsterdam-West. Because in Amstelveen he is just less punished than in Nieuw-West or in Old-West because there are bigger problems there. That, of course, cannot be done at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u290	If that's the difference between those neighborhoods, then that's right, and then you can. Mr Buma calls himself the aid worker. If there's that distinction between neighborhoods, that's true, and then it's possible. Mr Buma calls himself the aid worker. If you're in Amstelveen beating up a paramedic who you don't know is a paramedic when he runs errands on weekends, you'll get a lower sentence than if you beat up that same paramedic when he does his job in an ambulance in the same place and he's resuscitating someone. So we're already making a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u291	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u292	That's just how it works. That's how our criminal justice works, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u293	That's not how our criminal justice works. The abuse of officials and of people who help us is a very serious offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u294	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u295	So abuse of a police officer in office................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u296	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u297	But I'll come back to what you're saying, because that's something completely different. Let me turn it around one more time. You call recruitment as a point. Then recruiting an innocent child in Amstelveen is less serious than recruiting an innocent child in Amsterdam-West. That's weird. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u298	I think it's really crazy. The fact of distinction is being attacked. Fine. I would just like to point out that we have long let that go and that we judge the beating up of man one or man two differently. There have also been proposals to increase the crime scene's motive. If someone beats up another because he doesn't like it, it should lead to lighter punishments than if he's gay and that's the motive for his act. Those have also been proposals here in the Chamber. Here's what I'm saying. Of course, the act of beating up or recruiting in itself is just as bad, but there are punitive circumstances such as the profession of the person, the background of the act and in this case the further sourcing of a criminal neighborhood or a neighborhood that suffers from too much crime. Locally, emergency regulations can already be used to implement this. I think it is fine to focus on one element here and then to be the indignant one. But you can also say: I prefer another alternative to protect those people and focus on reducing crime. I'm open to that, too. Let's at least take care of those people and not just be dealing with each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u299	The latter is of course the most interesting. Mr Dijkhoff says: I am open to another alternative. Then let's do it. Let's just look at another alternative. I say to you once again: it cannot be that we consider the recruitment of an innocent child in district A less serious than the recruitment of a child in another district. It's not about the neighborhood. It's about the kid. When it comes to police officers, we ensure that those people are more protected in the performance of their duties. Luckily, cops are under a lot of pressure and they're doing their job for all of us. You're just wrong, Mr. Dijkhoff. Acknowledge that and come up with another plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u300	I make a proposal and Mr Buma does not have to agree. By the way, I'm not making a proposal, but I'm asking the Cabinet to reflect. It is a Danish proposal and I said in the interview: I am not going to rule out all sorts of things in advance, so if this is effective, then I want to embrace it. But Mr Buma is now creating a fiction. He creates the fiction as if every act is already severely punished, and of course that is not the case. Judges impose different penalties in connection with the perpetrator's background, the victim's background and the social impact of the act. Pretending that everyone who does the same thing in the Netherlands always gets the exact same penalty is not true. We should not pretend that our criminal justice system is so rigid that there is no room for this. It's a political choice whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u301	This is just becoming more and more a transparent trick, isn't it? First tell us in the morning "we're gonna punish harder if you do something in a certain neighborhood" I'm gonna formulate it very carefully now and have a tear-cracking story here about giving opportunities, offering freedoms, teaching and learning a language. How long have you been in the government? Never done anything about it! And now say "no, what you're getting out of it, which is that we're going to discriminate on where it happened, is just a piece that you're magnifying now." Yeah, we're right to expand that. Mr Dijkhoff's examples do not apply either, because it is of course impossible for you to make the location decisive for the punishment in the Netherlands. That's crazy. Terrible things happen in neighborhoods, but you don't want a reckoning in the criminal circuit in one neighborhood to be dealt with differently than in the other neighborhood? I thought it was gonna be crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u302	This kind of cynicism and The Hague bullshit about words and tricks... I'm sorry. Yeah, that's cynical, 'cause those people don't take a hit. We will then end up in a debate in which Mr Pechtold says 'well, it was a trick' while I make a substantive proposal and ask for a response. It is said: must it necessarily be that measure? I'm in. I'd take it. But if there's support for anything else, I'd like to discuss that, too. That's an open way of doing politics. And you? You choose words, you choose spheres, you choose tone. But then after this day we didn't hit the kids who don't speak Dutch when they go to school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u303	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u304	We have not struck the people who grow up in freedom when they should know freedom. You have now had a morally elevated debate with me, and you have added nothing on substance and not done anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u305	I am incredibly happy that we are presenting here today with the VVD: eliminating language disadvantage from day one, childcare from the earliest possible year, more position for women and for people who need a boost on the labour market. That's what this cabinet does. Also: greening neighborhoods, making them more sustainable, ensuring that there are affordable rentals. That's policy. Tricks, Mr. Dijkhoff, aren't The Hagues. They also understand what you are doing in Breda and in Wageningen, because it is indeed a repetitive event. The fun part is, at the end of the day I can see that cunt running away. Then the Prime Minister's gonna tell us what we're all doing and then we're gonna go back. In the meantime, however, the atmosphere has been set as if there is again a problem in those neighbourhoods that we cannot solve. Addressing problems and offering opportunities!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u306	Mr Pechtold could have been the only interruption he started if he had listened to the story and had not immediately struck on something he had read and what was different. A trick? You blame me for a trick. This is why people are dropping out, namely that if a proposal is made here, the content is not debated but it is said 'o, it comes from that, it will be a trick again, it is not serious'. Then you'll tell me I'm pretending there's trouble in those neighborhoods. You'll live there and already know you can't study. You're gonna live there and know that when you come out of the closet, you're gonna get beat up. You'll live there and you won't be able to hear a letter from this whole debate because you don't speak Dutch and you don't know Dutch culture. You'll just have to spend the rest of your life lagging behind in society and see that when it's discussed here, people start talking about "one measure," "a trick" and then sit back in the benches with a morally elevated feeling while nothing has changed and nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u307	What arrogance, I would say to Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u308	Yeah, you recognize it like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u309	I rest my case. What arrogance, to be honest. Colleagues from your own coalition are asking you substantive questions about this proposal. The answer we get is: it's not exactly a proposal I'm doing, it's what's happening in Denmark, and I'm asking the Cabinet to respond. A proposal has indeed been made by the VVD. You will be questioned. It becomes clear that it isn't that solid at all. Then you will start knocking around and saying that the other colleagues are playing political tricks here. My question to you, Mr. Dijkhoff, would be as follows. I also recognize the system that's in here. The VVD again comes up with a proposal based on a cultural theme, so it does not have to be about the dividend tax. That's what you're doing here. What I don't understand is: if you want to talk about crime, why didn't you come up with a proposal for the top of society, for white-collar crime, for example, fraud-making funeral directors, house milkers or money-laundering bankers? Shall we double the penalties there, too, Mr. Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u310	If we do it in that neighborhood, yeah. That's consistent. I've answered every substantive question of coalition and opposition. That's what I'm going through with. But I do find it sad that a competition is being held here in the search for some kind of disqualification as soon as possible, rather than looking at the content. I am open to supporting these proposals. I like them. I also want to know if there are any reasons for doing them differently in the Netherlands or not, that is what I want to know. But I haven't seen a better approach or heard a more consistent story than I have seen and heard in Denmark. I see what is happening there and I am positive about that. I also think that all the ways we have tried so far with integration have simply not paid off. They abandon individuals, they leave people behind. They accept that they are unfree. There are many people well integrated; fantastic. On the other hand, this also requires a lot of society, and I will come back to that later. You also have to say: once you've fought freely, you're fully part of it. Then there must be no acceptance, not even in the false sense of jokes, of distinction in the background or religion. I'd like to discuss the whole plan. I'm really sorry that we put our songs of the day back up here. Content? Fine. But blame each other for things like "arrogant" and "tricks" in interruptions? Isn't that something nobody in the Netherlands has to deal with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u311	I just hope it was a failed joke. I hope that the statement that they will be punished more severely if they live in those neighbourhoods is an example of the well-known Dijkhoff humor. This shows exactly where the problem is. White-collar crime is also a problem. You're linking it to these neighborhoods now. You focus again on what happens at the bottom of society. That is where you step, but if we ask you to sweep the stairs at the top and, for example, to come up with proposals to deal with those money laundering bankers, then the VVD remains silent. This is a transparent trick, because that's what it is to make sure that, for example, it's not about the dividend tax. It's not your fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u312	This really doesn't believe anyone in the Netherlands. There's a little mediocre clapping back there, but no one believes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u313	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u314	No, Mr. Clover. Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u315	I'd pay attention, too. I do that every day. If you'll just pay attention right now. There is no one at all who thinks today is not about dividend taxation. I have answered questions about this in detail. We've talked about that before. I don't understand why you're saying I'm kicking down the stairs while I'm saying you want to raise the people who have it the hardest. I'm saying that you want to help those people, that you want to help those people into freedom. You should embrace that, shouldn't you? Then the point of the bankers at ING. I believe that our group was one of the strongest on this issue. Instead of just saying 'what a good thing they have taken responsibility' we said: well, it is good that something is happening, but it took a long time and it took public and political pressure, including from us. When you came up with your bonus bill earlier, I did not respond to it in the vein of 'what a nonsense, society should not complain; those banks are top'. So I have been critical of criminals over the past year, even in the banking sphere, when crime was tolerated by an organisation. I am now looking at how we can help people who are not self-employed, who are unfree, who are lagging behind, who are starting their school career at a disadvantage, which I regret, because that is poverty and crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u316	A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u317	You're putting whole neighborhoods away. I would like to congratulate this cabinet, not you, but the Cabinet, for what is happening in the field of pre-school and early school education, with, for example, language lessons from day one. That is an important point that is being achieved in the coalition agreement, as Mr Pechtold rightly said. That creates opportunities. It's about upliftment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u318	That's what's in there, man!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u319	That means you're sticking up for those neighborhoods. The proposal you have made does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u320	I think it is almost comical that Mr Klaver has reached a final conclusion on a proposal which he has not even bothered to hear, because I had to get started. He's acting like I'm setting up neighborhoods. That's such an easy accusation. He does all kinds of things, but that doesn't help the people in those neighborhoods. They will still have to deal with delays tomorrow. They're still dealing with oppression tomorrow. They are still dealing with language problems tomorrow. They're still dealing with more crime in their neighborhood tomorrow. There's never been one thing solved in this country by not talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u321	No, no, no. No, Mr. Clover. No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u322	A personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u323	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u324	It wasn't personal, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u325	No, it wasn't personal. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u326	I'm absolutely not cynical about what needs to be done. It is absolutely true that children in the poorest neighbourhoods have much less opportunities than they deserve. I think we know what you should do about it. There's not enough youth care out there. There aren't enough faces out there. There aren't enough cops out there to increase the chances of getting caught in this crime. There are too few decent, affordable homes. We're talking about all this stuff here. I don't want to be cynical. In fact, we have alternative proposals to offer, for example, free care for young children, which, according to the newspaper reports, is at least part of your plan. I am getting cynical when the VVD at the end of this debate on the targeted proposals I will make to improve life in those neighbourhoods, says: no, the budget is in balance; I just want to respond to the proposal I made. Then you'll make us cynical. So I'd like to give you the benefit of the doubt. Are we really going to do something to improve life in neighbourhoods that are having a hard time? I want to be your partner in that. We have proposals for that which I think they can count on. We are talking about more police officers, more youth services, more attention in the neighbourhoods and therefore also a bigger chance of getting caught. Whether I'm going to be cynical about this is in your hands. The coalition has said 'we stand out; we want to work together', but so far the answer has always been: no, the budget is in balance and the dividend tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u327	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u328	My question is: are you prepared to really change the budget in order to improve the lives of the people in those neighbourhoods? If so, we will do so in this debate next Friday. If not, you'll make those people in those neighborhoods really cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u329	It is not only in my hands that people are cynical, but also in Mr Asscher's, because it is an integral approach and not a matter of particles. There are hard elements in that and there are indeed soft elements, if those terms are useful at all in this debate, but that is how it has traditionally been seen. If there is a package in which they all occur, I do not think so, but perhaps in two days Mr Asscher can convince me that the whole package is already ready or that more study is needed to do things together and to develop the further approach, then I am open to that. I've already indicated the limitations you have in the coalition. So I'll respect that. But it's not my good will. We can't end it cynically. If we go to a targeted approach.... I'll read it before the form; it's really in.... there's both a hard side to let people notice that we're going to protect them as a softer side to help and lift people up, just to use that word, so that their chances in society are better and we don't have to conclude about a generation that with the next generation of people who mainly live in those neighbourhoods, it didn't go well and we can write them off again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u330	Yeah, we can point this way. We set the financial band here, so if we come up with a proposal that means that you want to give people in the most difficult neighbourhoods more opportunities, to quote your word, and you want to make sure that crime is better dealt with there, that there is more youth care and that there is better care, that costs money. That's a couple hundred million dollars. Then I'm counting on you to support it, too, because you just promised. In such a package, there's always "something" that's the next thing. The police are really gonna get the criminals caught there. Alone, there's too few of them. They're gonna die in the workload. If we get more cops and more youth care workers with better working conditions, we can do something for those neighborhoods. I'm coming up with the proposal and I'm counting on you. All your words here, the whole plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u331	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u332	I want to trust you in your intention. That's what you're asking: don't write it off right away. But then we're gonna do it. We shouldn't postpone it. Here we determine the direction for next year, an approach for the most difficult neighbourhoods of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u333	I am pleased with this open attitude. I do not, of course, leave the elaboration of my plans to depend solely on Mr Asscher's motion. I'll take a serious look at it. I've indicated limitations you have, even if you're in the coalition. So not everything I say I can deliver right away. But if it's the things that can be agreed on, I won't shy away from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u334	Clear. Don't repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u335	Finally. Your coalition partners just indicated that at least they don't like the postal code criminal law. I think it should be possible on these other issues, so I will come up with the proposal. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u336	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u337	In any case, a compliment to the VVD that not all plans are completely cooked up with other coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u338	We've been practicing this for a week!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u339	I saw some sharpness in the debate between us. But we must not forget to talk about things that you have agreed on in the back rooms. If you're talking about crime in the neighborhood, I have to think about the whole drug crime. How are you gonna explain to your daughter? That's where you started your story so beautifully that we're gonna continue delivering state weed, legally, when we already have such a big drug crime in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u340	Technically, the experiment with state weed is reducing crime. If it's already grown legally, you don't have to grow it criminally anymore. In addition, I do, of course, pay a lot of attention to the hard drug crime, which you are already seeing increasing and shifting to what you are seeing. That's just crap. That's what we're exporting to the whole world right now. That would be an interesting source of income for taxes, but I think it would be better to banish it and tackle it harder. That is why I welcome the fact that undermining funds are being created, that tackling drug crime in the region where I myself happen to live is being strengthened and that we make it clear that we do have an eye for human freedom to use certain means, such as weed, but that we ban hard drugs and the crime that goes with both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u341	Unfortunately, the location climate in the Netherlands for drug criminals is very attractive. That's why we have so much drug crime here. It can hardly be serious that Mr Dijkhoff says 'yes, but if we get it out of the Criminal Code, we will have less crime'. Yes, there has been a Minister of Justice who has said that if we declare all bicycle theft legal, we no longer have a problem with bicycle theft because then it is all legal. Taking it out of the code cannot be the solution if we also see that one of the reasons why the Netherlands is high on the wrong lists is that we have a tolerant climate around drugs? What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u342	Technically, that's true, of course. Only, it's not a motive to take something out of criminal law. The motive for getting something or not out of criminal law is to see what its effects are. We do not necessarily think that the behavior itself, the use of a particular means, should be prohibited. If that's what you think, you can take it out of criminal law. Then you have the question of how to deal with crime. A tolerance policy makes it even more difficult. These tests aim to gain more knowledge about this for the Dutch situation. So the old-fashioned story that drug crime is big here because we tolerate weed is a little out of date. There are countries where they have an even more liberal attitude towards soft drugs but do not necessarily share our hard drug problem. I think you should deal with these two cases separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u343	We have just seen another report by the Police College on ecstasy and the like which states that the Netherlands unfortunately has a very unfavourable place on that world list: the turntable in Europe. That's in the low chance of getting caught, the low penalty, but also in the tolerant attitude towards drugs. Dan's got weed to do with that. Are we really going to do that? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u344	My tolerant attitude isn't going to change on this file right away. There is no tolerance of crime. That is why I think it is right for the cabinet to take additional measures to deal with the criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u345	Mr Dijkhoff talks about uplifting; he wants to raise people in those neighbourhoods. I think that's brazen anyway. The VVD is responsible for many years of failing integration policies and responsible for fewer and fewer police officers, especially in those neighbourhoods. The VVD is responsible for the marketing of language courses which has made it a chaos. Mr Dijkhoff is making a suggestion here today, at least, and I shall put it nicely, that he wants to introduce a form of class justice. I ask Mr Dijkhoff to take that impression away. Mr Segers referred to the Zuidas. It is well known that there are serious frauds there, the white-collar crime is large there and there are a lot of right-wing recidivists. Does Mr Dijkhoff therefore believe that the penalty should be doubled there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u346	No, I'm okay with that punishment, and if there are recidivists, they'll be punished more severely. Nor did I say that we should have a higher level of punishment for certain criminal acts than before. It is precisely to remove the present inequality. There are areas that suffer more from crime and there needs to be a recovery action to eradicate crime more effectively and quickly. At some point such a neighborhood, when the upliftment and the improvement are over there, is removed from that approach and it becomes normal again. You already have a class difference, namely neighbourhoods where there is a lot more crime and neighborhoods where there isn't. This is a means of helping the police to have the authority and to make it clear to the people of good will in such a neighborhood: we are there for you and if here, where you can have little because there is more crime, the law is broken, it will be dealt with even more heavily. That is the idea behind this measure. I'm just trying to eliminate the difference that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u347	I'm just setting such an example of such a problem area. It may not entirely meet Mr Dijkhoff's definition: more than half of the people should have a non-Western background. I don't quite understand that one either. But I'm just giving you an example of such a problem area: the Zuidas. Then Mr Dijkhoff says: no, no, no, it is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u348	There is no integration problem there. I do see criminal problems, and you have to deal with them hard. If they are scum, they are scum; no matter what they wear and where they work. I am only talking about an integration-related measure to show a neighborhood: we are on your side, we are doing this for a time until crime is not so much higher and so you are lagging behind the rest of the country. This doesn't fit in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u349	I think that almost all the speakers have already referred to this. If you want to advance this integration, then you are doing something about the language, you are ensuring better integration policies, you are creating mixed housing and that kind of thing and not doubling the penalty. But the coalition's got it all figured out. Mr Dijkhoff left a test balloon in the newspaper this morning. The entire coalition is flying on top of that. In the meantime, I think we have been talking about it for almost an hour. These are the general considerations and they should be about the state of our country. I predict to you, Mr President, that this is a test balloon by Mr Dijkhoff. We also heard one at his conference about lower welfare. I predict you, we'll never hear of this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u350	I'm sorry. I think you can hear them both. I'm just gonna keep looking at what the big problems are and try to find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u351	Would you like to continue your speech as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u352	Yeah, I'm about to. If Mrs Marijnissen says that I am critical of the integration policy for which we are jointly responsible, then my answer is: yes, that is correct. I've done the same thing in previous cases. I mentioned this in the speech at the time. I did this in an essay for the summer. I had another symposium on this in the First Chamber in the summer. These are not test balloons, this is work in progress and I am here trying to address the problems that Dutch people face. Looking at the reactions, we still have a long way to go before we reach a solution. In any case, it is a subject that needs to be discussed more often. When it comes to giving people the freedom they deserve, it can't be firm enough for me. I told you. I asked the cabinet to study the Danish example, to send a response to the Chamber and to say more than just what the differences are, that Denmark is not the Netherlands and that you can't just copy it all. I can think of that myself. But please indicate what is so specific in the Netherlands as in the Danish situation and why you should then take other measures, if it is not just to be taken over. In Denmark, the government has mapped out the neighbourhoods where people suffer most from lack of freedom. There we have looked at where people suffer most from lack of freedom and insecurity, and where the Danish values, which are very similar to the Dutch, are not leading in their own country. They have applied five criteria, of which I would like to know from the Cabinet whether they are also the best for us to identify those areas. Those are areas that need freedom. They've looked at how many people actually work per neighborhood, and in particular how many women. They have looked at how many non-Western immigrants live there, how high the crime is, how high or low the level of education is and how high, or usually low, the income. For example, the Danes have mapped out their neighbourhoods and also seen that it is not one of these criteria that determines whether a neighbourhood is a problem area and whether there is freedom. As I mentioned earlier in an interruption debate with Mr Kuzu, it may be good to note that there are a lot of areas with a high percentage of non-western immigrants where this approach is totally unnecessary. Then we know that too, and then they can also get rid of a stigma, if it already applies. It is intended to identify where the problems are and to think about them without using taboos in advance. They have also taken concrete measures, some of which we have already discussed and which I am curious about how the cabinet sees and weighs them. What has been discussed is that the Danes say that if people in that vulnerable neighbourhood meet more crime and must be protected from it, crimes committed there will be punished more severely. Those neighborhoods can't have anything. They're vulnerable, and that's where we increase the sentence. They also try to change the composition of these neighbourhoods by means of housing rules. That's what we've been asked about. So that's what's in this plan. They do so in order to prevent people from living only those who have the same backlogs, who have the same language disadvantages and who may also celebrate the same oppressive culture in the most difficult neighbourhoods and who make it harder to be free when you live in that neighbourhood. Thirdly, they require it there in Denmark to go to a nursery if you do not speak the language, to get in touch with the language and other children who grow up to be Danish. They then reward municipalities and, of course, cooperate with them very closely when they get more people to work in those neighbourhoods and even more specifically when they get women to work. I think we should consider all of this, take it all seriously and make our leading values everywhere in the Netherlands lead. There's something else in there. Then you shouldn't tolerate intolerance on the other hand. Then we should never find an excuse for an employer who invites someone named Bas to a conversation, but not someone named Malik, when they have the same resume. Then we have to live there ourselves and address each other when things go wrong; whether it's a wrong remark at a birthday party or not inviting it to a job interview. Then we must appeal to each other for intolerant behavior towards people who are fully involved in our society, but whose name or appearance shows that they have not come from Drenthe for hundreds of generations. What I want for my daughter is a society that is truly free, equal and open to everyone who embraces our free Dutch values. And also a society in which we accept that sometimes when something is said, where it is listened and debated rather than condemned and censored. Finally. In my view, Mr President and colleagues, we face major challenges for the future. I've named a few of them in my input. The search for solutions to all these issues is actually preceded by one more question. That is a question that we leave unanswered and actually do not ask much: how many of us are we going to be? It is crucial for our choices and decisions to have an image of them, especially since the predictions are still different and we have a lot of influence on them ourselves. For 2060 the reasonable bandwidth is 16 to 20 million. I'm not making that up myself, but Paul Scheffer was able to trace it when he got the numbers after a lot of pushing and pulling. For me, the reluctance to be open about these figures underlines the need to conduct the debate. Otherwise, we leave the figures to misinterpretations and false conclusions and then base the policy we are making here for the future on our feelings rather than on facts and figures. In the 1970s, we had a state committee think about this fundamentally for the last time. That was not easy and the matter was extremely sensitive. At that time, population growth was also a brake on birth politics. Not now, because our population growth is now caused by migration. We can decide to have more control over that and to put it in order. To make good choices, we need answers. How many Dutch people are going to be there when we just let everything go? And how many Dutch do we need anyway to make society work? Is there a critical limit to the number of Dutch people who can live here? And if so, where is it? What are the consequences of the size and composition of our population for the economy, for the welfare state, for sustainability, for education, for care, for our free Dutch values? I would ask the Cabinet to deal with this seriously and let us know how it thinks it is best to investigate this. Then we can base our choices on that, so that we don't burden our children with policies based on quicksand, so that they don't look back and think: boy, 16 or 20 million people on this very small piece of earth, that matters; couldn't they have thought about that for a while? Mr President, I will conclude. We all have a lot to do here. Only if we work together and rely on the good intentions of everyone else can we do the right things for a good future for our Netherlands. Together, we must solve the climate problem. Together, we must keep the Netherlands prosperous and apply the freedom to all people in the Netherlands, no one excepted. The urgency of the crisis will be over, and we have come out stronger, but it is precisely for this reason that we should not be tempted to debate the square millimeters. I like to think together with everyone about the big challenges for the long term, because that really helps the children of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u353	These are the General Political Reviews, so anything is allowed; everyone can decide for themselves what topics he talks about. I am on the edge of my chair to hear whether the topics I am particularly interested in are also being discussed. One of these is, of course, the purchasing power of older people, and in particular the purchasing power of older people. I didn't hear the VVD about that. Hence a question to the VVD. The figures of the cabinet say plus 1.5%, but we also got the figures of the Nibud yesterday. When I look at that, I see 0.9 and 0.9, and even less: 0.2, 0.4, 0.3 and 0.4. Can the VVD explain to me the huge difference between the predictions of the cabinet and the predictions of the Nibud?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u354	That's an average of 1.5. Each individual can turn it out differently. All these models are, of course, ultimately decisive for no one, but Mr Krol quite rightly points out that the elderly in the Netherlands are also making progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u355	But then I hope that the VVD also wants to be so honest to say that in recent years the cabinet has always predicted pluses that eventually came to zero. The VVD has been turning the buttons for years now. Why didn't the VVD make sure that the elderly didn't go backwards? Why is she only taking action now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u356	We've been taking action for years. In the disappointing years, all Dutch, old and young, have had to catch up. In this way they contributed to the coming out of the crisis and built a strong Netherlands for the future. Of course, the elderly have been contributing to this throughout their lives. That doesn't change. You try to be as honest as possible for old and young, but in a crisis being honest also means that everyone notices that and goes backwards. In times of economic prosperity, it also means, fortunately, that not only those who get a different job, a better job or a higher salary are making progress, but that everyone can share in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u357	Then I hope that the VVD will be so honest as to say that it was also the elderly who took part in solving the crisis at the beginning of the crisis, but that the VVD should only benefit the workers now that things are finally going well. The elderly get a crumb. You remove with a pollen spoon and return with a teaspoon. That's not fair to the elderly. I ask you just one thing: do you not think that the elderly are in need of a plus greater than the plus they are now rewarded with by this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u358	I'm gonna give everybody a lot of money, too, but I'm not gonna pretend that you can solve all that here. It's about the fair distribution. We live in a country in which everyone, including those who work, young and old, can progress if the economy improves. There will be older people who will improve more than others. There's gonna be some old folks who say, "Oh, man, I got it right. There will be elderly people who say: I have trouble making ends meet. For all these people, there's progress. But we don't say that one group is getting better than the other group. We're doing that in a very targeted way. We have just done a repair on what would normally happen in the economy, to involve and better serve those who were less advanced, who are not working, who are not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u359	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u360	In recent years, there have been elderly people who have fallen sharply, while they have also been the elderly who helped when the crisis broke out. You didn't do anything about that. Now you're doing far too little about it. The VVD will really notice this in the coming year, when there are at least two elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u361	I hope that the people in the Netherlands, and especially the elderly, know that in life you don't always get your way; and that you have to see if they have distributed it a little nicely about old and young, so about everyone, when things were bad, and now, now that things are getting better. I think that older people are also thinking differently about this, and their political choices also rely on how they weigh it and how they weigh it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u362	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u363	Mr. Chairman. We've heard the VVD about women, freedom, emancipation, upliftment. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u364	Yeah, that's right, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u365	I think it is very important, and one of our achievements, that women here can decide for themselves about their bodies, and be boss in their own belly. Now we have seen that this cabinet has withdrawn the law that would regulate the delivery of the abortion pill through the general practitioner, a law of VVD Minister Edith Schippers, because of objections to the general practitioners. Now an initiative law has been passed by the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the SP, to make this possible. In doing so, we have succeeded in overcoming these concerns. In view of Mr Dijkhoff's speech, may I now assume that it will be a free matter for the VVD Group to support or not to support that law, so that religious views will not lead to the free right of every woman in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u366	Fortunately, the free right of every woman in the country to have her own body in this respect is not at all under discussion. This law can certainly add something to the way in which, but this law does not determine whether or not women have that right. It is about availability in a particular place, which is not there now. But the right for women to have access to it, to decide for themselves whether the child is wanted or not, and whether they want to carry out the pregnancy, is there anyhow; let us put it first. I understand that this is now liberating for you, Mr. Asscher. But besides, in a coalition, you make agreements about things. It's been agreed we're not gonna do the old law. There were indeed many practical objections. It has also been decided not to make a new law as a cabinet to remove these practical objections. If there is now an initiative legislative proposal, we are going to deal with it carefully and we will look again at that practical side. But we will also pay attention to the coalition agreement and the prisms that we have agreed in it with parties that are less liberal in this than we are in it. So I cannot say that as a party we would be as free as if we were in the opposition, but we will go along those prisms, and also the practical side, which I hope you have solved. But then we will see whether we can support it now, or whether it will have to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u367	Finally, because the bill is still coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u368	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, we here, men, are not supposed to say that it has added value for women that you can ask through the GP...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u369	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u370	... because the threshold will be lower. Yes, you said that right is not at stake. Why don't we leave that to women themselves? It's easier to discuss that with your GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u371	Then perhaps we should be replaced by our female colleagues, if we are not allowed to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u372	Yes, you can make a joke of it, but this is very serious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u373	It's very serious to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u374	I can't really tell by the way you deal with it. But, Mr. Chairman, I think I had the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u375	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u376	So here's what I asked for. When the coalition agreement appeared, there were no agreements about it. Later it turned out to be a deal, but only about the old law. I asked Pechtold: is that because the Christian parties have trouble with it? No, it was just because they themselves thought it was not a good law, because the general practitioners found that difficult. So I can assume that if we solve that problem, we can do it the same way. You're saying two things now. One: the problem isn't that big. But women make that up for themselves, and they tell us that this saves them enormously; that it can even prevent unwanted pregnancies, also because the GP can talk much easier about education and what happened. And now I have to conclude from your words that it does not appear to be a free matter. So you made arrangements about this that you didn't write down. I find that very disappointing by someone who has such a big mouth about women's rights and religious intolerance, but in the first instance the best practical example that we can set here does not want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u377	Then Mr Asscher just made a slightly different story. The law is not at stake; I think that is a great achievement. I also showed him that I would like to support that law. But I also explained to him how we, in a careful way, deal with our coalition partners. That is not shocking news; my colleague Tellegen has already said so in an earlier AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u378	No, no, no, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u379	So that comes as a surprise, surprises me again. I don't deny it can add anything. I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u380	Just a moment, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u381	We're not doing that now. First, we are going to look at the proposal, what your proposal is; I still have to see it, and also what the Council of State says about it. And then we are going to weigh it through the prism of the coalition agreement, which is about everything. And so we in our group will look at it and discuss it. But that's why I also pointed out: if we were totally free... I certainly see added value; I have not denied that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u382	That's what you said. Last remark, briefly, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u383	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u384	Last remark, briefly, briefly. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u385	I'm not asking you to treat that law carelessly, I didn't say that at all. I ask: is it a free matter? I think we have a law that should actually be able to count on the support of the VVD. I think it's vague now. The story about prisms was about other issues. That was about embryo research. It was about the things mentioned in the coalition agreement, such as completed life. The abortion pill wasn't in there, so I just want to know: is it a free matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u386	Not again; you have already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u387	A free matter still means that you can weigh it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u388	If something is a free matter, I prefer to discuss it first in my group and not in a debate with Mr Asscher. But I have already told him how we will see this, and that these prisms are there for the unmentioned things, because that was a basic agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u389	The proposal comes to the Chamber and it is simply being debated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u390	Let's get back to the VVD's neighborhood postal code plan. On behalf of my group, I will not destroy it. You're making an effort to solve something, and that's what's good for you. But it would also have decorated you if you looked at the causes of those problems. For those examples you mention are the things we often experience with non-Western immigrants, not only, but above all. Besides learning the language, you mentioned as an example girls who may or may not go to school or already know in advance who they are married to. That was the example you mentioned. You were also talking about gays, or boys who didn't dare come out of the closet because they'd have problems. And if so, as in the examples you cite yourself, then you, as a VVD, have caused a bit of the problems yourself by I told you in my term of office in the last five years to let 400,000 non-Western immigrants enter our country. If you had not done so, a lot of these problems would not have been in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u391	I did not go into it because the policy is based on the individual who is unfree, and not on the motive for the lack of freedom. So basically I don't care whether it's an unfree Buddha or Islam, but Mr Wilders didn't call it. In practice, of course, we see that this lack of freedom is often applied to others in the name of Islam. I do not want to say that there are not many people who freely combine their free lives and Islam. That's my point of view. A policy is not aimed at a particular background or motive, but at an effect. With regard to migration, Mr Wilders spoke first about Rutte I, in which things failed. In Rutte II a lot did succeed. At that time, the European wind started to blow differently. We have an agreement on migration with Turkey. Under our Presidency, we helped to close the borders on the Balkan route. We have helped to ensure that the spirits were ripe for a completely different European view of migration, which is now being carried much wider in the Chamber too. In the end, Mr Wilders can reap the benefits of this, because this leads to controlled immigration, which is actually less immigration than we have had in the past crisis. We never want to do that again. We have tackled and tackled the problem that was in Rutte II in front of us. Then we looked at how to prevent this in the future. We have taken measures to ensure that Europe really talks about migration in a different way than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u392	Mr Dijkhoff now refers to problems directly related to Islam, which are directly related to immigration. In his whole proposal, he did not mention the word 'Islam' until I asked a question about it. It is a fact that the marriage of girls is unfortunately inherent to Islam. The fact that boys do not dare to come out of the closet is not only Islam, but is largely Islam. All the examples you mentioned are related to them. The VVD, whatever you say, with those open borders has made sure that the neighborhoods are full, that they are full of non-Western immigrants. Almost half a million, 400,000. You were Secretary of State at the time. I'm not talking to anyone. You were Secretary of State when you left the borders wide open and let 400,000 people in. It's nice to come up with all these plans now. Again, I will not shoot them immediately, but also look in the mirror tonight: how come all terrible things happen in those neighborhoods? That's because you sat at the wheel, and sat, and let hundreds of thousands of people in, a large part of which felt that a boy shouldn't say that he's gay, that a girl should be married out and that you don't have to learn the language. You brought them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u393	I was also Secretary of State when we closed the Turkey/Greece migration deal. I was also Secretary of State when Macedonia closed the border and so was the rest of the Balkans. I was also Secretary of State when we were increasing our sentences and made it easier for us to withdraw someone's residence permit if those crimes were committed. I've seen the judge get used to it this week. I have done all that, and I fully support and support it. As I pointed out just now in Mr Wilders' question, the motive is not for me to address the problems of freedom, but I am also not going to look away from the fact that, statistically speaking, Islam is more often used/abused to impose this freedom on another person. In addition, there are many people who can combine freedom and Islam as a religion for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-2.u394	Thank you. Then I'd like to suggest that we suspend until 2:50 p.m. We'll start with the arrangement of work. Then we will continue this debate.
