ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	I shall now turn to Mr Arno Rutte. Word around here is it's his birthday today. Congratulations. On behalf of the VVD, Mr Arno Rutte asked questions about the message that weapons should be dealt with. His questions are addressed to the Minister of Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome him here. Mr. Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is my birthday, but the subject of my questions is not very festive. There is talk of hand grenades on doorknobs, reckonings where bullets are flying around bystanders and murders with the terrible euphemist term "misdemeanors." Although crime and the use of weapons are of all times, in some places in this country it is spreading. So there is every reason for a vigorous detection of weapons in our country, but yesterday in De Telegraaf there was very disturbing news. Judicial expert Jas van Driel and the chairman of the Dutch police union Jan Struijs express their deep concern about the detection of weapons in the Netherlands. The national portfolio holder's weapons from the police indicate that only action is taken if there is knowledge of a weapon. Jan Struijs describes this approach as "weapons as bycatch." While 8,793 firearms or parts of firearms were intercepted in 2015, they were "only" 7,431 in 2017. And that while there is no indication that the number of weapons present has decreased. On the contrary, all signs indicate that the presence of weapons is increasing. It is clear that this coverage is a major concern for the VVD Group. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister of Justice. Does the Minister share the concerns of the VVD Group about the increasing presence of weapons and their use? Can the Minister explain that more than 1,300 weapons and parts of weapons were intercepted in 2017 than in 2015, while there is no evidence that the presence of weapons has decreased? Can the Minister explain that in the last decade the number of arms taken has quadrupled in the north of the Netherlands, whereas in Zeeland and in Brabant fewer weapons have been taken out of circulation? And that while, in particular, Brabant has the doubtful honour of being the region where the serious, undermining crime has become more and more widespread in the last decade. Finally, in the first term: is it true that tracking weapons is no longer a key priority, but only by-catch? If so, does the Minister share the concern of the VVD that this is undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister for Justice and Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	Madam President, thank you very much. In fact, I can go straight to the first and last question put by Mr Arno Rutte in my speech. Yes, weapons are an important priority for me and my ministry. As far as the detection of illegal weapons is concerned, the possession of weapons and the ease with which firearms are used in criminal accounts are indeed worrying. Police and the D.A. are taking this investigation extremely seriously. On 4 April, we discussed this issue during the debate on the fight against liquidation violence. At that time, I said that we are stepping up the fight against the trade in automatic weapons by the use of a coordinating weapons officer, more investigations and increasing the penalties demanded. As regards the first, since 2015, there has been a national firearms officer at the national courthouse, and each district parish has an officer with firearms as a focus area. In this context, the Chamber adopted a motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Rutte, which calls for the penalty rate to be doubled for possession of automatic firearms. That's the motion I'm putting into effect. In addition, potential offenders who commit such firearms offences in an organised context should be punished more severely. So I will shortly also come forward with a legislative proposal extending Article 140 of the Criminal Code. The legislative proposal raises the penalty limit for participants in organisations whose purpose is to commit serious crimes, such as violence and liquidations, from six to a maximum of ten years in prison. Tackling illegal weapons is cross-border. There is currently intensive cooperation with European police forces at the initiative of the Netherlands, and this actually leads to arrests. The police are also working with a new system for recording and analysing detected traces and goods, including weapons. This will strengthen the process of file-making on this issue. There is also an improved information position on firearms, including the fight against the trafficking of firearms on the Internet. This approach has already led to several successes, such as several large finds and seizure of lots of weapons and explosives. On this priority, I would like to point out that this autumn, the renewed EU Firearms Directive will come into force, which has been followed by the Netherlands. As a result, rules on marking will become uniform. The information position of the police will greatly improve and cooperation between them will be strengthened. It is important to report that all essential parts of firearms will then have to be registered. Buying separate parts is also more difficult. In the meantime, the 2016 implementing regulation for deactivated firearms has been improved since March 2018. As I said in the debate on liquidations, uniform and effective rules for decommissioned firearms are now in place throughout the EU. That concludes the so-called Slovakia route, which has been reported more frequently. Finally, your question about regional annual differences. There is no empirical answer to that by giving me an empirical answer. This also has to do with the way in which certain developments take place within the criminal environments in a few years. But you can be assured that prioritisation, the commitment to tackling the illegal possession of weapons, will, of course, target all regions, but will certainly concentrate on those areas where criminal organisations are all the more active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	In any case, it is good to hear from the Minister that he shares the concerns about weapons and that he also wants to take many measures to ensure that the presence of weapons is addressed. This is mainly in other legislation, heavier penalties and a coordinating officer. But you're gonna have to track down the people who actually do it. Mr Van Driel said something important about this. He said, for example, if weapons appear in a drug investigation, you'll have to go through with it. You shouldn't just observe "hey, a weapon; we're confiscating it," but see where that weapon comes from, if there's more to it, if there's something going on. Does the Minister agree with Mr Van Driel? If so, how is he going to ensure that that detective gets a place in the police's procedures? If not, what is the Minister's view of the best approach to tracking weapons? The article also says something about registration. The Minister said something about this, but that article actually states that what happens to illegally obtained weapons is not properly recorded and that also firearms incidents are not properly recorded. Is that true and is that perhaps something to improve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	To begin with, I will certainly take up that point, but I am honestly not aware that this is the case. On the first point, you rightly point out that it is important not to regard weapons as a kind of by-catch in the detective's work, but to actually detect them and, if necessary, to detect them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	That's good to hear, too. That leaves one question and one concern. If you're gonna detective and detective, you're gonna need expertise, too. Yesterday's article suggests that the last expert retired soon will close the door to the police. That may be a bit exaggerated, but I would ask whether that is true and how the Minister will ensure that, in the short and medium term, the police have the necessary expertise to detect weapons and to protect civilians from life-threatening gun violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	The image that the Dutch police would not be equipped in terms of expertise, I fight. I have said many times and I keep repeating that our police really score very high in international comparisons in all areas of expertise, including in the field of expertise. Another point is that we have said that this year and in the coming years additional money will be invested in the police. I have also said before in your Chamber that this is also focused on developing further police expertise, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Rutte. Then I will go to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	Of course, dealing with firearms must be a priority. It is incredibly important, but I hear the numbers and I also hear about the differences in the north of the country and in the south. A few years ago, the Weapons report appeared. That was mainly about the registration of seized firearms. Is this really an operational problem or is it just not properly registered? And would the Minister like to take that report out of the drawer a few years ago and look at what is happening at the moment, given the recommendations in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Van Dam raises a point on which I do want to talk to the police, because if we want to make this an important priority, we must also check with each other whether we have a good picture of everything. It may be that we have to see together that, for example, registration can be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	The Minister mentions a number of measures he is going to take. Mr Rutte is right to add: but you must find out. But I think you should do something else: you have to look ahead. A threat image is drawn up every year or every two years. That actually says that in a ring of countries around us, Syria, Libya and Ukraine, there are already a lot of weapons in circulation. In Russia, 4 million kalashnikovs will be available immediately because the Russian army writes them off. What is the Minister doing, looking forward, to tackle that problem on the supply side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	It is a very correct point that in Russia, but also in Ukraine, very large quantities of dangerous weapons have come into a market of some kind or come into a particular market. It has the full attention of the Dutch investigative authorities to see whether we can indeed do something about that in anticipation. For example, I mentioned that in the European regulation on technical disenfranchisement, we have now managed to make a number of changes possible, which, for example, closed the Slovakian route. We will also have to work with each other from the justice and security domain on measures that make it impossible for such parties to become available on the Dutch market or at least in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	Your second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	It's nice that the investigation services are alert to that. It is also good that the Minister is working on the European regulation, as he said in the first term, but that will not necessarily mean that weapons cannot flow in from the countries I mentioned. Can the Minister indicate more specifically what steps he can take, preferably at European level, to prevent these large quantities of weapons from coming our way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is difficult to say that in a very concrete way. First of all, this is, of course, often related to technical measures and control at the external borders. In addition, we will also have to raise international and joint efforts in the search. Of course, stopping illegal weapons from Russia and Ukraine is already beginning with the countries at the external borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	My group has been making a point of investigating for years, because that is what we hear from the workplace. The Minister is happy to share that view; he believes that this should be done. Of course, there must be enough people, detectives. I already know the answer: structural money is added for the police. So my question is another one. I heard the Minister say we're also going to invest in expertise. But we also read in the article that the expertise is now there, but that it threatens to run away. That's because of retirement and so on or because people quit. Does the Minister agree with me that we should at least use the expertise we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	I fully agree with you that available expertise should be used wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. Oh, you have something to say, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	Well, just "happy" to Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u22	Okay, thank you. Let me see if the next question can be asked. Mr. Sjoerdsma, the minister isn't here yet. He's on his way. So we're just gonna wait a little longer.
