ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the VAO Foreign Affairs Council. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. My motion concerns the release of Ahed Tamimi. She is imprisoned in an Israeli prison for peacefully resisting the occupation of her country. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at the end of last year Israel apprehended the underage girl Ahed Tamimi, who was in occupied Palestinian territory and unarmedly opposed the presence of Israeli soldiers on the property of her parental home;]] [[noting that Amnesty International calls for the release of Ahed Tamimi because nothing justifies her detention;]] [[calls on the Government to express its support for the release of Ahed Tamimi,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1821]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, 130,000 people worldwide have signed this call. I do not think children should be in prison, especially when they want to live freely in their own country, like all other children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Madam President. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is now in trade-K, as an observer for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In fact, the motion I would like to table is in the area of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. It is therefore a good thing for this motion that this Minister is here. The motion concerns accelerated aid for UNRWA. The Minister made an annual contribution of EUR 13 million available for this purpose. We had a discussion about it during Question Time, when the Foreign Minister replaced it. We also discussed it at the Foreign Affairs Council. I thought it would be a good idea to complete it with a motion. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has speeded up the transfer of funds to UNRWA;]] [[having regard to the discussion on the position and functioning of UNRWA and the fact that the United States had recently decided to freeze UNRWA funds,]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in advance of any plans to pay aid to UNRWA in order to weigh up the political opportunity of such expenditure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1822]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I am so disappointed by Mr Van der Staaij that this motion only speaks of political opportunity, with which I suppose he means political opportunity here in the Netherlands, while the humanitarian situation of the people to be helped by UNRWA is dramatic. I don't know Mr Van der Staaij like that. He is free to table any motion, but I am very disappointed that he does not in any way refer to the suffering of men, women and children in Gaza and other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	This is more of a judgment of value than a question. Let me just say this. We are always very much in favour of humanitarian aid for those who need it. At the same time, you can see that there is a discussion about the position and functioning of UNRWA. Is that also used as a political weapon? Those discussions are intertwined. It is up to all of us to judge how to respond to humanitarian needs and at the same time to shape them in such a way that it actually contributes to the Middle East Peace Process. That is the political opportunity. Does it contribute to that or not? We saw the discussion about the freezing of funds in America. They said: we want to use that to start talking about it. I hear Mrs Ploumen saying that is not allowed. I think that is a real and fair balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	It is clear that I do not agree with that in this case. It is Mr Van der Staaij himself who is politicising the situation. That's how he makes things unnecessarily complicated himself. Why is humanitarian aid provided in the context of the Middle East Peace Process? There's no reason for that. This isn't another question, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like Mr Van der Staaij to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	The fact that UNRWA is a separate organisation, specifically for Palestinian refugees and with specific arrangements and conditions, is already a political fact. UNHCR is an organisation that has a more general budget for refugees and carries out tasks. So we can't suddenly put on glasses and say it's only humanitarian. No: whether we like it or not, it's just intertwined with the Middle East Peace Process politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	I think Mrs Ploumen said it very clearly. With this motion, the SGP, after all, is a party which generally values the law, simply undermining humanitarian principles, namely: you do not politicise emergency aid. That's just been said. I would like to put another question to Mr Van der Staaij. As far as I am concerned, his party always notes how difficult it is for Christians in the Middle East. I would like to ask him where his mercy is for the Palestinian Christians and why that mercy does not extend to them. Why is the SGP forgetting this group and why is the SGP politicising emergency aid for this group of people, for children and women who are in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	This is a lot of value judgments and few questions. What I want to say is that whether you like it or not, it is the very specific position of UNRWA that is giving rise to a political debate. Is this a sensible way to deal with it? We have never opposed aid for Palestinian refugees and the need to meet these needs in this Chamber. We believe that emergency aid should be given without distinction. You ask: what about the position of Christians in the Middle East that you are so concerned about? I would indeed ask you to look at the budget that has been made available in comparison with this group. It is very strange that there is such a huge focus on this particular issue. That has everything to do with this being politically charged. It is not merely humanitarian, with blinkers on and without a political context. That applies to my group, but that also applies to the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	An answer that unfortunately is not an answer. I believe that it is also a little lacking in the responsibility that Mr Van der Staaij has here as a Member of Parliament. It doesn't matter. It is clear that emergency aid can be politicised and Palestinian Christians have nothing to expect from Mr Van der Staaij. Can I appeal to him on his responsibility towards the country of Israel? He also does no service to Israel with this motion. If a country has an interest in the work of UNRWA, if a country has an interest in the services provided by UNRWA in the fields of education, health care, food and research, then it is Israel. It provides stability and prevents chaos. So I would like to say to Mr Van der Staaij: ask your Israeli friends whether or not that money should continue. I guess the answer will be absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	I also saw that the freezing of funds from Israel was a positive response. Palestinian Christians have a lot to expect from the SGP, because that is what we are committed to. We have also supported motions and tabled amendments in the past, including on aid to Palestinians. I'm not saying there's no money to go. I just think you should look at the possibilities of shaping that in the best possible way. Frankly, I would like to challenge everyone to simply return to the text of the motion. It simply says very quietly: we find that this is a politically sensitive subject and we should not pretend that it is just an artificial humanitarian world completely separate from politics, so let's just have an open debate about it in advance in order not to get nasty discussions afterwards. That is a very modest procedural motion that I am putting forward here. I think D66 could support them without any objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	However, I would like to say a few words about Mr Van der Staaij's modest, purely procedural motion. I would like to endorse what colleagues have already said on the humanitarian side. Mr Van der Staaij is a brand name in this Parliament with regard to state-law purity and that kind of thing. Then I would like to ask him about the recital in his motion. If I remember correctly, it says: considering that there has been a political debate about... I would like him to consider changing that into: considering that I, the signatory of this motion, have caused political discussion about... For it is not the case that this political debate has come to an end? It was caused by the petitioner himself here. Don't you think that's a bit of a wring?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	I think that's too much credit to my address. I note that written questions have been asked from various sides, including ChristenUnion, CDA and VVD. Oral questions have been put by the PVV Group. I myself have blown my humble tunes along with that, but I am too honored to say that I am the only one who raised this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	That is not the point of my question either. I would suggest to Mr van der Staaij that he, together with a number of colleagues, has entrusted the humanitarian imperative with a political debate and that he now uses it as a recital to ask for a ruling from the Chamber. To be honest, that is a strange sequence, if I may use that difficult word, for someone who is always so pure in the law of the state. You yourself cause a politicisation and then use it as a recital to say: now we have to make a ruling on it. Strange thing!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	Again, no matter how it started... You can also say that there was just money on the budget and that the money for UNRWA is simply being transferred. It has started with a press release that has made the Dutch cabinet world-familiar in order to speed up the delivery of aid. Then I do not find it strange, just when there has been a press release from the US administration recently, to say that we do want to talk about the role of the Palestinians in the peace process and the improvement in the organisation. So that is simply in a political context. To be honest, I think it is rather naive to say that no matter how the world works, we are only in the process of providing assistance that is needed and we are not thinking about the political constellation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that it is political. Everything is political and this issue is already entirely political, as we all know. I can only express my disappointment at the fact that, when an entire people is in need because of an international illegal occupation, one of the biggest issues in the world, and our government shows the human face by something that was already reserved, so it is not to bring forward any extra money, you seem to have such a big problem with it. My question to you is whether you also have a major problem in locking up underage children who are peacefully opposed to the occupation. Do you support the call to release Ahed Tamimi? Because then we can get back together and try to correct that injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	I could agree with what the Foreign Minister said about this during the general consultation, namely that there must be a fair trial. I think that's very important in situations like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	Apart from the fact that all kinds of embassies are not admitted, so that we cannot follow that fair trial, that is in no way the issue. The issue is that an occupier storms a country and shot a 15-year-old boy just before, and a 16-year-old girl resists it, because her country has been taken out year after year. That's illegal as it is. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	This is not about Mr Van der Staaij's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	I myself have the right to put my question to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	About the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	Here's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	I have indicated that I recognise what the Foreign Minister said about this and that I will therefore not support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	I would ask Mr Van der Staaij whether I read the motion correctly. When I hear the reaction of my colleagues, you might think that the motion says stop giving money. I think it says that there was a discussion in our Chamber about the sudden press release. The CDA has also asked questions about this: if the US decides to withdraw something, do we jump right into that hole? It is a matter of ensuring that both camps continue to have a fair involvement of the Netherlands, but also of the United States, so to speak, precisely in order to maintain that balance. I was wondering if I could read the motion properly. Is it true that Mr Van der Staaij is asking the government to inform us in advance if once again the Netherlands suddenly wants to oppose the beacons? That's the call, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's right. It's nothing more and nothing less. It is only intended to have a good parliamentary process, good parliamentary control. It is the same as when we say in sensitive areas of regulation: government, it is your responsibility, but we do enjoy being able to say something about it as a Chamber. You could have a written consultation on it. Then it's up to the government to weigh that down. I believe that there should be a calm political weighting on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	So I can also read that you are not saying at all: do we need money or do we need money? So I read that right? This seems to me to be reflected in the reactions of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	I tried to indicate that hole, too, but it's a good thing it can be replicated for a while. I know that different positions are taken in this Chamber. In my opinion, the PVV Group wants no money at all. Others say there should be more money. Actually, I'd like to stay out of that. I would like to try to get the broadest possible support for a motion that says: let us have a careful process in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	I myself do not have much with the frontloading of the aid money that has now happened. There are also critics. In that sense, Mr Van der Staaij has a point when he says that there is a political discussion about this. We can prove that this is an internal political debate by standing on the interrupting microphone. But my question is of a different nature. If I read the motion correctly, Mr Van der Staaij actually says that he wants to give his consent in advance. That is what I consider to be a sensitive element of state law. He wants almost some kind of article 100 on the use of aid money. I am also critical of UNRWA, but I assume that Mr Van der Staaij sees the importance of this organisation, even in view of the threat of implosion in Gaza. You know which country will suffer first. Does Mr Van der Staaij see it that way? Do we now have to give political approval to the Minister in advance to make her decision, or will we continue to do so afterwards, even if we are critical?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	I have, of course, thought carefully about the state-law design and the question of whether this can be done and whether there are any examples. I have seen examples from 2015, including a motion by Mr Ten Broeke himself together with Mr Servaes, who actually went even further. It really filled it out for the government: it has to be that way and that way. To be honest, I think that is another step too far in the role of Parliament. This is more modest than motions tabled by Mr Ten Broeke himself in the past. We're not talking about permission. The motion merely asks: let us know in advance so that there can be a political discussion if the Chamber needs it. 'Cause if we don't, we'll know how it goes. Then it's a fulfilled fact and then you can't do anything with it, there's hardly any debate about it anymore, because yes, it's all tricky and can't turn back anymore. That is what I am trying to learn from and give a constructive follow-up to this discussion by asking: how can this be better in future, with respect for the own responsibility of both government and parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	Respect for the own responsibility of government and parliament is reflected in a type of motion such as Servaes and I have tabled in the past. Because that you want to shape the way in which you can make your own political motives, your own political opportunity, to think that those aid money should be spent is really something other than that you decide in advance that if the government intends to spend aid money, it should come here first to ask if it can. I would have liked this to have gone differently. I also criticize UNRWA, they are mostly after ten months through their money, but that is really something else than before wide...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	You've made your point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	... to submit to the Chamber any expenditure which the Minister wishes to make, including a quick publication. Because then you won't be able to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr Ten Broeke. A very brief response, Mr Van der Staaij, because this is no longer a VAO, it is just a debate. It could have been done in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yeah, I can see that, too. I had the idea of a very quiet motion. The point is that it is really less far-reaching than examples of how Mr Ten Broeke himself actually fills in sums where and when to give. This merely says that if there are new intentions specific to this sensitive post, it is good to be able to have a political debate on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	This is another repetition of what you said earlier. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	I would also like to clarify this motion, because I follow Mr Van der Staaij's line that we have had motions here from the VVD who asked the previous government to inform the Chamber about amounts of over 10 million extra spent on emergency aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	No, Mr Ten Broeke, you are not going to talk through it, Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	Do I understand the motion that the petitioner asks the cabinet to inform the Chamber, should there be any intention to do so? So it doesn't ask for permission from the Chamber for an extra, but does it ask for information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	That's right. It is really nothing more than an intention to know, so that a political debate can be held on this if it so wishes, and it is considerably less far-reaching than the example that Mr Voordewind also mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr Ten Broeke, you have just been here. Only when it comes to a personal fact or to correct something, because everyone has interrupted twice. The same goes for everyone, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr President, even you can see that I am wrongly cited here, that my party is wrongly cited. That point has just been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	You can make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	So I'd like to make that right. I would remind you that you allow a whole debate on a motion that has already been tabled, and then I have to stand here to correct a misrepresentation. The VVD has every right, like other Members of Parliament, to refer the content to the Chamber in its own right, to ask for a Chamber ruling or to encourage the government to do so. That's the role of the Chamber. That is quite different from the way in which all the expenditure that a minister wishes to spend, even if she wants to do it at another time, has to be submitted to the Chamber first. Mr Van der Staaij must be able to understand that difference. In fact, that was just in his response. So I'd like to hear him confirm that difference here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	Good. And you have made that point clear. I would like to appeal to you, however, not to react too much again, but simply to give a brief response. Then I'll go to another speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. A brief response to this point. Again, I have also carefully examined whether this is a matter of state law and the conclusion was without doubt yes. Compared to, for example, how we deal with regulations in which the government has a responsibility, also state law. Then we also have a veil on which we should be able to discuss it for a while. It is entirely in line with the normal supervisory powers of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I now turn to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. The Ottoman violence against Afrin has been going on for almost four weeks now. An acceptable justification for this is still not given and it is not likely that it will be forthcoming, because if it had existed, it could and should have been given long ago. But that didn't happen. Ankara doesn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. De Roon, we still need to have that debate. That's after.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	Yeah, but it also plays in this AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	The fact that that did not happen ultimately means that Ankara does not have any factual data that can justify that aggression. What is clear is that the violence used by the Turks is large and that there is no question of avoiding civilian casualties. The proportionality is invisible. The Western governments have so far given the Turks the benefit of the doubt. I think that we should stop doing that, because that has happened in the hope that Turkey will still bind and find a better way forward. In view of the Turkish announcement of plans to clean up the rest of the Syrian side of the border, it is unthinkable that Turkey should continue to commit itself. Nor can we continue to hope that Turkey will still come forward with an acceptable statement. I therefore think it is high time that our country condemned the Turkish attack on Afrin in clear terms. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to condemn the Turkish military attack in Afrin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1823]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	In the event that the motion is not adopted or adopted by the Chamber, but the government says it is not going to implement it, I have a second motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unacceptable that Turkey has still not provided evidence-based justification for the attack on Afrin;]] [[calls on the Government to condemn this Turkish negligence and to encourage allies to do likewise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1824]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. The last motions have yet to be distributed and the Minister needs a short suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you, Madam President. As regards the motion in part No. 1821, tabled by Mr Karabulut, I think that everyone always shares the concerns, especially about minors in detention. I have also taken note of Amnesty International's report. The Dutch representation from Ramallah attended the first day of the session the day before yesterday. They were present in the courtroom with Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Sweden, precisely to demonstrate the Dutch involvement. The EU in a declaration called on Israel to respect the rights of Palestinian minors in detention in connection with the case of Ahed Tamimi. The EU declaration was also drawn up at the request of the Netherlands. The case is under the judge now. Our position is that we are not interfering in local justice, as Minister Zijlstra indicated in the AO RBZ of 1 February 2018. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	It has nothing to do with interfering in local justice. When the President of Amnesty International got stuck in Turkey, we also spoke out. This is a matter of justice or injustice. This is a great injustice, because it's about an underage girl. An action from military as occupying... You can be there, you can express your concerns, but that girl just needs to be free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	I have just mentioned my points. The Netherlands is following this case, so there is involvement. Of course, every follow-up step always depends on EU consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	Can the Minister explain to me why, in the case of human rights activists in one country, we are calling for release and that is not happening in another country, namely in the case of aggressor Israel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	I think we are now drawing up a framework that is wider than the framework of the motion. The motion concerns the Dutch involvement and role in the call for the release of Ahed Tamimi. That is a matter of detention of minors. There is, of course, a much broader area and discussion about human rights, the Dutch role and commitment. I don't think it's right to link that to this particular case. The Dutch position remains as I just put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	Then the motion to part No. 1822. With regard to UNRWA, I would also like to recall the elements put forward by Minister Zijlstra in my absence a few weeks ago, that UNRWA is a humanitarian UN organisation. The Netherlands has been contributing since 1951. U.S. money isn't frozen. There's been a delay in payment. A large proportion, 65 million, has already been transferred to the organisation, recognising the important humanitarian and stabilising role it plays, including in countries such as Lebanon and Jordan, and in view of the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. The amount is simply correctly stated during the debate on the budget of Foreign Trade and OS: 13 million. It's much less than a few years ago. The Netherlands is a good midget; we are donor number ten. Information has been provided at debate moments. We are already committing ourselves in advance, saying whether or not we are going to do something later in the year. This applies to all humanitarian aid organisations. It is also important to continue to see support through UNRWA as an element of reception in the region. The acceleration of payment of two and a half, three weeks has also been done by ten other countries, including the EU. The United States, as I have already reported, has also paid. The US call is also right that other countries pay more and not that they pay less. The expectation has also been expressed, also by the Netherlands, towards Arab states and other countries to do more. It is therefore a question of reducing the burden on the same donors. For UNRWA, we do not propose a separate status. It is correct that a number of high international level talks will indeed be held in the coming months, led by the Secretary-General. A conference is planned, perhaps in mid-March, to discuss the financial emergency and the reforms of the organisation. We will inform the Chamber in good time about all these talks and the Dutch commitment. I think there has been extensive information on the basis of the parliamentary questions. We therefore advise against this motion, but are of course always available for timely and timely and relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	I will confine myself to one question and not a whole debate on it. It's an informative question. What is the Minister's opposition to having the opportunity to discuss this politically prior to any new plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	The Netherlands and all other countries paying UNRWA pay for humanitarian, development-relevant reasons. There has always been a deliberate choice, especially by the Americans, to regard UNRWA as a humanitarian organisation. The mandate of UNRWA is therefore also very strict. All political considerations take place within the framework of the Middle East Peace Process and its negotiations. I think it's good to keep that separate. There is no other country within the framework of UNRWA Member States that is using this line. I refer to a recent Security Council debate. I also refer to the public statements of the Advisory Commission of UNRWA. We, as the Netherlands, would suddenly play a very separate role. I also believe that it is important that the destabilising effects of an early debate on UNRWA in the current Middle East framework, with ongoing crises and crisis on top of crisis, should have a wrong effect on focus countries, Lebanon and Jordan, as set out in the government agreement. That will raise more questions than we are likely to be able to achieve by dividend. But there is a clear approach from the Netherlands to the ongoing reform process of UNRWA. I would like to point out that the current Commissioner-General has managed to save 160 million over the last three years. The costs continue to rise, which is, of course, always a matter of concern, which explains that the budget always and inevitably has a deficit. But there is a reform plan submitted by the Secretary-General. It's important to take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr Voordewind, I will give you the floor, but the question must relate to the motion, because this point appears to have been discussed extensively in general consultation. There have been oral questions and written questions. We are now working on one motion from 10.15 a.m. and there are other issues on the agenda that are also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. Very brief clarifying question to consider the motion as a group. Does the Minister now undertake to inform the Chamber of developments concerning UNRWA and the financing and reform of UNRWA? Am I getting that right from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	Yes. Information never hurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	Please continue. The motion in part No. 1823.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	The motion in part No. 1823. From my point of view, it seems to be a little ahead of the debate. Of course, we remain critical. We are constantly in consultation with partners in NATO, the UN, the EU and other fora, as well as, of course, with the Turkish authorities, in order to provide further justification for possibly falling back on Article 51 of the Charter. We very much regret that the justification has not yet been provided to an adequate extent. We keep pushing to get it. We have the debate in a moment, but I would advise against the motions in part No. 1823 and Part No 1824, with the emphasis of course on the fact that the Netherlands deplored these developments and the Turkish military invasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	The government's been waiting four weeks for a statement. And now you want to wait even longer. Then the logical question is: how much longer do you want to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	That's a very good question. I think we will still have a debate on this in a moment. As Mr De Roon knows, it is not always wise in diplomatic matters to set a very hard deadline. We are working hard, also yesterday and today my colleague Bijleveld has been in contact. I would like to give a further appreciation of this, because we must consider this situation in a broader case of developments within a war zone. I'm still deceiving the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	This brings us to the end of this VAO. We will vote on the motions today.
