ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mrs Bruins Slot's question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport about the report that the AMC bought hundreds of heads from a controversial American company. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the United States, companies are recruiting nursing homes to make elderly people donate their bodies. Then these same companies sell or rent out the body parts of those older people to hospitals and training institutes around the world. Even several times, because it happens that such a head or body part is leased, and often without the knowledge of next of kin. They thought they were doing something right. Those companies make big money out of that, about $5,000 per person. In the meantime, it has even led to FBI raids in the United States. Is that a far-from-our-bed show? No. The Amsterdam Medical Centre and the Erasmus Medical Centre are involved in this. Reuters and Nieuwsuur invented it. Meanwhile, with the port of Rotterdam, we have also become a transit country for these body parts. There are containers entering the port of Rotterdam and they go through the rest of Europe. Mr. Chairman. That's unfortunate. In the Netherlands there is the possibility that people make their bodies available to science for research, training or training as a gift. It is striking that the Amsterdam Medical Center has been on the website for several months: no, we have enough offer, you can only come from a certain category. Meanwhile, more than hundreds of heads were taken from the United States. The CDA believes that the bodies of the deceased should not be a commercial commodity. You should not create a business model for this and we should not want to participate in this in the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is: how do you view this? What are we gonna do about this? And which other hospitals or training institutions take their body parts from organisations other than the eight anatomical institutions of the universities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. It's an intricate story, last weekend at Nieuwsuur. It also looks really careless. People didn't know what they were up to and didn't know what they had said yes to. The fact that a fee is paid may also lead to people with a tight scholarship feeling obliged to choose at some point, if they cannot pay for the funeral. That's really not how we want to deal with the human body. That's not the way of showing respect for the human body. The surrender of a body to the science that says Mrs Bruins Slot herself is also regulated in the Netherlands through the Coronation Law for Dutch donors. What we have not adequately regulated or properly regulated is the use of body material of deceased persons with foreign origin. There is currently no obligation on the investigator or the administrator of that body material to examine whether this application has actually been chosen in the decision to give up the body. That's one of the reasons to come up with the Body Material Control Act. That law is currently in preparation and has also been consulted. It requires informed consent, informed consent at the time the body or body material is given, and the obligation to verify it with the investigator. How broad this practice currently applies in the Netherlands, I cannot say at the moment. There's no record of that. I do intend, in anticipation of the introduction of that law, to present a good picture, in consultation with academic hospitals and the Dutch Association of Pathologists, what that practice is and to what extent it occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister's answers actually show that there is a black hole in Dutch legislation. So when it comes to body parts of foreign origin, anything is possible here. That's what the companies grif use. Reuters and Nieuwsuur have invented that containers filled with body parts were transported from the port of Rotterdam to the Netherlands, but also to other countries. My question to the Minister is as follows. In the transit of body parts it is arranged for corpses that there is a corpse pass, that there are neat rules to ensure that the deceased are handled carefully. But there is no regulation for body parts. They are treated in the same way as electronics. It is good that the Minister looks at the Body Material Control Act, but does he also want to look at the rules that apply to customs? In fact, we have to deal with body parts in the same careful way we deal with bodies. No one is currently monitoring the proper use of body parts at hospitals and training institutes. They'll take care of it all on their own. My question to the Minister is whether there should be someone to oversee it. In the broadcast of Nieuwsuur it is striking that American companies that make big money from this have also established their own branch in Amsterdam: Rise Labs. Reuters invented that Rise Labs claims to provide services to people who leave their bodies. This seems to mean that they are starting a kind of own journey alongside the careful practice we already have in the Netherlands. Wouldn't it be wise for the Minister to do real research on this, so that that business model of those American people doesn't become a new business model in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	I understand the questions very well. When it comes to responsible use for the purpose of science and for the purpose of training, we are indeed dealing with better legislation. We are also working on this better legislation; we are preparing it. Then it's about the Body Material Control Act. It obliges administrators of that body material and the people who use it, i.e. trainers and scientists, to ensure in advance that those who have given up that body knew for what and for what it was. That is actually the most important point, because it is missing now. Again, this is not the case for Dutch donors. For them, this is provided for in the Coroner Delivery Act, but for body material of deceased persons from abroad. The extent to which this practice occurs in the Netherlands, I have to highlight. I have just indicated that we do not know. If Mrs Bruins Slot asks whether this will also lead to further regulation in the field of customs, I am prepared to look into that. However, I would like to emphasise that I believe that the most important point where the law needs strengthening is the point of reference of the researcher or the administrator of that body material. It must be assured that there has been an informed consent. So that was not the case in this case, as the Nieuwsuur broadcast showed. Maybe it was in the fine print, but it certainly wasn't the case that people actually knew what was going on. So once again, we need to get a picture of how big the practice is and we need to improve the law. With that bill, I'm moving in the direction of your room. I will also look into the need for further legislation on customs. I will also look at the story about the branch of that American company you mention, but I believe that will also be covered by the Body Material Control Act and that that way of working is regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	The CDA really thinks that you shouldn't make dead people a commercial commodity. It is terrible that this is happening in the United States, but we still have the opportunity here in the Netherlands to put a stop to it. It is good that the Minister now indicates that he is going to look at the regulations. However, I would like to stress to the Minister that this is not just about the regulation here, but also about the regulation of the transit of material, of body parts, because it also maintains practice in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	I share Mrs Bruins Slot's view. I have also said that for this reason I will consider whether this also needs to be strengthened with regard to customs regulations. I don't know, but I'd like to check it out. I do know that the most important point of approach is the Law control body material. With regard to commercial use, the following shall apply. As was shown in that broadcast, the people there gave up the body under payment. That makes people, especially people in need of money, very vulnerable. Whether any commercial use can always be excluded is the question. Let me give you an example. If skin is given off, then the pharmacy also provides an application to heal burns. Such a pharmaceutical company is, of course, a company. The most important thing is that one knows very well at the front for which one consents. That's the informed consent we're gonna settle in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	I very much welcome Mrs Bruins Slot's disgust at this practice and in the questions of further regulatory action and investigation. I have another question about the last point that has been raised, the commercial aspect. The Minister says the information must be clear. That's very good; what's arranged for that is even better; fantastic. But what limits are being placed on commercial use? Isn't that an ethical point too? Because if you're also gonna get a profit-making barter and pay for all kinds of organs, aren't we already crossing an ethical line? Shouldn't there also be more detailed rules there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	I understand the inconvenience expressed by Mr Van der Staaij. I've got that myself. This is also in line with the inconvenience expressed by Mrs Bruins Slot. In this case, I find the hardest roads that people did not know in advance where they were going. They didn't know what the application would be. Yeah, maybe by the fine print, but then you must have read and understood it. One is paid for making the body available. That puts vulnerable people in an even more vulnerable position. That is absolutely not the way it should be. I also tend to agree with the statement that you shouldn't want commercial use at all when it comes to this. But the point I make is that you have a number of applications that we would very much like to continue to use. I just mentioned the example of burns. Think of a pharmaceutical that uses skin to invent an application to heal burns. In the field of medical technology, for example, you can think of making good prostheses. For this, it may also be necessary to use body material.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	That type of business is profitable. So I do not think it is possible to level out commercial use altogether once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	But it is possible to set ethical boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	I share the inconvenience of everyone who's talked about this. I also share the Minister's views on commercial use and the way you should look at it. But how can university hospitals indicate that there is no registration of people who want to give up their bodies to science, but that they do go to a commercial company in the United States to get the body parts needed for scientific research?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	What I understood at that point is that this is a special form of frozen body material that is not available in the Netherlands. It is therefore a special form in which that body material has been made available. I've been told that. But again, I think we need to get a good look at this. A part of this is therefore the question why Dutch research institutes and Dutch hospitals are forced to obtain body material from abroad, while the supply in the Netherlands seems to be sufficient. People won't just do that. There will be a good reason for that. I'd like to understand that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
