ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. As I said, the issue is the Insurance Distribution Implementation Directive Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u2	Several speakers from the Chamber have spoken, about six, with speaking time of five to ten minutes. I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Another law with a full public gallery because of its important social interest! But there is. We are talking today about a further restoration of confidence in the financial sector, especially in the insurance sector. I think it is good to look back at what we have done over the last ten years. Too often, incomprehensible products were sold, causing customers to run risks that they had not asked for and thereby ensuring them against events that virtually did not occur. Too often, insurance was combined into one package, which meant that you were hand and foot tied to that one insurer. Too often intermediaries ran away with commissions that were out of proportion to the product they had sold. Mr. Chairman. A financial institution must be serviceable, affordable and safe, without flaunting or pranking, and above all understandable. As a customer, you need to know exactly what you buy and why. Every step we can take in this direction must be taken with both hands. What is now before us is a strengthened directive on the sale of insurance: the Insurance Distribution Directive. The existing directive already provides that you as a customer are not sold unnecessary insurance and that tying is limited through package insurance. In this new directive, these provisions will also enter into force as insurers operating without intermediaries. A number of procedural provisions and administrative sanctions are also harmonised. And the Netherlands will make use of some Member State options. We would actually have been fine with treating this bill as a hammer piece, because after the introduction of Solvency II and MiFID II it was time to update this directive. That's actually what happened. This is simply logical and necessary in connection with the internationalisation of the insurance world and the sale via the Internet. However, while we are having this debate, I would like to ask the Minister to respond to the advice of various parties in the field to further increase the transparency of commissions. These include, for example, non-life insurance or health insurance. Last week, the Minister concluded in his letter on the ban on commissioning that he does not consider this transparency to be necessary. I can follow that reasoning, because it is not about complex financial products. They're standard products. You can compare them well and compete with each other. However, insurers are concerned about the high margins that end up in comparison sites on the left or right. Can the Minister address this aspect? Are we talking about the margins of those comparison sites or perhaps more about the market power they now have? One final point. Dutch people love insurance. With each trip they book a cancellation insurance. With every washing machine and used car they immediately take the comprehensive warranty, so in fact an insurance policy. And in case of damage, they have to choose which of the three insurances they will appeal to. We have now arranged that insurers do not sell unnecessary products. But how do we ensure that Dutch people understand their insurance and do not over-insure themselves? Does the Minister see a role for the Nibud, for Wiser in money matters or for private initiatives such as School Fight? The financial resilience of ordinary Dutch people remains a concern. I have one last sentence, Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must make even more efforts in the coming years to make the financial sector and thus insurers serviceable to society and regain confidence. We hope that this law will take another step in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. Mrs Leijten of the SP has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u5	Good argument from the VVD. I'm going into commission transparency. I am currently in the process of making an amendment to just settle that for all insurance. We have tried before in this Chamber, for example, to impose a ban on the provision of health insurance. The CDA tried that. The SP tried that. But that never led to a majority. Would the VVD feel like simply making transparent what a website earns from taking out the health insurance cover of €100 per insured person, per transferor or to make transparent what a mediator earns from taking out funeral insurance through him or her, so that it is clear that those costs are paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u6	You know, transparency is nice, but it's not an end in itself. Does this make the trade-off for the ordinary Dutchman who buys that insurance quite different? Of course, it's nice to know that this site is worth €100, but then I'd like to know how much that insurance company itself collects and how much is actually paid out; all nitty-gritty. I also want to know when I buy a jar of jam from Albert Heijn how the cost of it is built up and how much money is made from it. Alone, does that make my trade-off any different? Does it help me find a solid product? And my answer is, no, I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yeah, I don't think it's so much about making that assessment. Of course, that's a bit of it. For this purpose, the commission for the bid has also been agreed when it comes to complex financial products, mortgages and so on. Then you just have to pay for the advice you get. But, of course, the insured person pays the money that the intermediary receives. A lot of people don't know that if you click on an insurance from FBTO during the switching time on the site of De Telegraaf, De Telegraaf will get €100 for that. I'd be happy if it became clear that there's still one of those advertising machines behind it. It's a $100 bounty in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u8	Yeah, and there's my point. These are competing products. They're next to each other. You can choose them. That is different from the complex products in which we agreed that we do not want commission for the intermediary at all. They are custom made and then you can't keep three products next to them. That's the same thing with that jar of jam. It's nice to know, but what do you have to do with it for your own consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u9	Well, you know what with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u10	Maybe another general wisdom I've ever had. You know, when everything's transparent, you don't see anything. That's kind of the problem. You're going to overwhelm the consumer with data, but it doesn't help him make a good choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u11	In my opinion, there's nothing wrong with the fact that when you click through a site, whatever the dials do, I'm just going to take a term; we all know which one I'm talking about, and it says that someone is earning €100, which can actually lead the customer to say: but wait a minute, I'm not going to do that; then I'm going to go directly to that website, so that it stays in the premium pool and the premium can go down. That can indeed contribute to consciousness, because I think very few people know that this is happening and I think a lot of people think it is a sin to spend it on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u12	Too bad we don't have people in the public gallery tonight, because a lot of people would have known, because Mrs Leijten explained it. You can still respond to it, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u13	I'm having trouble seeing how this helps people who have to take out insurance. That is all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u14	I foresee that Mr Snels van GroenLinks will continue to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u15	Certainly, Mr President, because I am not yet satisfied with the answer and I am actually surprised at this liberal view of transparency. One of the problems with the commission is that these costs could be very high compared to the normal premium, especially in the case of long-term insurance. And then you can't compare it to the jar of jam. That is one of the reasons why I think it is important to make that transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u16	And that's why I explicitly make a difference between complex products, for example, a mortgage that is completely custom-made and where you don't have any comparison material, and simple non-life insurance, ten of which can be put side by side. They work in competition and ultimately they work at a lower cost. You know, this is about whether you believe this market economy works like it does. I believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP, who, may I say, believes less in that. But I'm sure she's gonna tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u18	Yes, a market economy... If the market were to do what's right for people, we wouldn't have an implementation law here. Mr President, insurance is financial products and they are useful to cover annoying, unpredictable risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u19	I think Mr Van der Linde has a question for you right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u20	We are going to have a nice debate on this extremely technical proposal. I didn't say the market doesn't require a market master. We do need them, especially in the financial market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u21	I congratulated you on your good speech. In that you said that commission transparency would actually be very good and would be in line with a commission ban on all those very financial products where you risk getting the wrong advice. But you turned away from it anyway. I regret that, because I think this might be the time to take that step. If you agree with each other that everyone in the market does so, there will eventually be competition, because that is a basic condition that allows everyone to compete. Anyway, I'm gonna argue for it, so we'll see how the minister reacts. I hope he's a little more excited than the VVD. Insurances are there to close financial risks in life..... not quite, but well. For getting sick, fire or theft, you can cover yourself financially. If you get sick, burn down your house or your car's stolen, it's nice that you get a financial fee for that. With a health insurance company you don't notice that much and the health insurance doesn't make you any better. That's what doctors are for. An insurance company doesn't rebuild your house either. That's what contractors are for. But you'll get some of the financial value back from what's stolen or broken. This has covered the risk of total costs. That's how insurance works in the end: you spend money together, share the risk and hope you don't have to use it. Why is it so good to explain that in plain human language? I do so because the purpose and origin of insurance, namely that people with collective concerns that they bear the risks of individuals, have become very out of sight. The financial sector made them products that they could make a lot of money from. The VVD said: they let people buy things they didn't need, they didn't understand or they lost a lot of money. Look at the usury policies. For nearly 3 billion people entered the ship. That is a good example of deception of citizens, who are still talking about it this morning in another legislative proposal, in order to get some of their money back. The financial compensation after years of misery, stress and a little shame that they had been fooled, should have been given to the insurer in advance. But, yeah, they got compensation afterwards. I regret that the Minister rejects the suggestion I made in the written preparation to provide a firm opinion on financial products containing an investment component. We see this kind of product coming up again, because saving doesn't produce anything and you just have to invest; long live the fun. Do people choose that as consciously as the minister thinks? Do people even know? Five years ago, we introduced various forms of consumer protection, such as the ban on commissioning, in order to prevent the addition of new victims. I would therefore welcome a firm advice on a financial product with an investment element, because of which the risk is greater. At first I thought, like the VVD, that we could just pass this bill, if it weren't for the evaluation of the commission ban. Therefore, this is the moment when we can talk about commission transparency. This bill is for consumer protection, but we still do not know exactly what is being made of financial product mediation, in this case insurance. I'd think it would be very sensible if we did. What I said in an interruption: not only the SP, but also the CDA tried to get a commission ban on health insurance. That's not so easy to compare at all, I'm just saying, that's not so easy for people at all. That's what you can see by the fact that fewer and fewer people change each year. The conciliation costs, which are referred to in annual reports as acquisition costs, we wanted to get out of the premium. This amounts to between EUR 300 and EUR 500 million on an annual basis. That would be good money to spend on home care or mental health care and at least not to hang out on those websites and things like that. 'Cause I think it's gonna matter. If you are looking for a new insurance policy and you click because you see a nice ad on a website, it costs €100. If you go directly to that website after seeing the advertising, that fee is not against it. This may indeed affect the behaviour of consumers, but certainly also the payment behaviour of health insurers in this case. I'm working on an amendment. It still seems to be quite complicated to get commission transparency. I would be very pleased if it became clear what exactly is being earned if someone was advised on another product, or perhaps within an insurance group. I wanted to say a lot about former Minister Jan Kees the Hunter, but he's been gone so long. He was against active commission transparency, but I assume that the Minister has learned from, among other things, the evaluation of the ban on commissioning, but also from research, in this case the AFM consumer monitor, which shows that 87% of the participants are keen to draw attention to the advisory and closure costs that exist and therefore also to the revenues that others derive from it. Then there's another point, Mr. Chairman. Suppose I want to have dinner in Leiden or in Bussum and I ask this minister: what is a good restaurant? Then he can advise me; of course he does. If he's a real advisor, he might say there's two restaurants in Bussum while there's four. If he still owns one of those two restaurants, then you can get into the situation that you feel a little cheated. Because then there are interests. This has to do with the question of whether an independent opinion is also a good advice. In the sector it has been agreed that you need to map 50% of the market of products in your advice. If you only have to offer half of it Ms.Van Toorenburg, here you can choose from it.You can also be sent. Well, then it better not be that independent, because it's only half of it. I would like to ask the Minister: could it be a higher percentage, for example 75% or 90%? 100% doesn't seem entirely workable to me, because there can always be new providers that you just don't have in your sights. I would be happy if we indicated that we would like to have that independent advice even more objective by offering, in principle, a larger market. Mr. Chairman. We have a bill that says beautiful words like "from product-driven to advice-oriented thinking." I always get a little itchy from itchy words like this, but ultimately it's about the question: do we do this for those who want to buy something, who objectively and independently get the best advice, or do we also have a large earning model and a large earning sector behind it? As far as I am concerned, we are going to try to eliminate the latter as much as possible, because this can indeed greatly affect the independence of the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u22	There is a question for you from Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr President, I cannot help it. Mrs. Leijten is looking for a restaurant. You have excellent comparison sites for that. You found a restaurant. Are you going to ask in the restaurant if you can see on the receipt how much the restaurant has paid at the comparison site?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u24	No, I generally do a lot more mouth-to-mouth advertising, so I'd probably just ask the minister if I went to Bussum for dinner. I said it to indicate that the moment you don't have to show everything, the advice isn't so independent. I also know that those kind of comparison sites are extremely controlling. If you enter a search in Google, there are all advertised elements. But with Google you have to show it: this is an advertising assignment. It'll put him at the top. At least that's a little more transparent than those comparison sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u25	However, at the comparison site that starts with an I and ends with ENS, I would actually like to have commission transparency. I'm sitting there eating for €50, and that restaurant may have just paid €10, which I finally have to cough up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u26	Look, I gave you the example of food somewhere, but if you're going to eat somewhere, of course, that's something other than a financial product. Eventually, a restaurant itself is about it. For example, with the home delivery agencies of this world you can see that all kinds of alternatives arise because they ask for too high a commission. We all know that advertising costs money. This is, of course, about the closure of a product. That restaurant doesn't know you're coming through that website, possibly. So it doesn't add up that €10 at your dinner party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u27	I can't tell the difference anymore. Whether you buy insurance or book a restaurant, you end up paying for it yourself. What's fundamentally different now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u28	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u29	Well, care insurance is mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u31	Dinner isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u32	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u33	I was just finishing up. I started with the importance of insurance. They are often made up of collections through employers. This is how a lot of things have arisen in our society. For example, if you look at the history of home care, you will also see that employers have used it, so that their employees could quickly get back to work in a healthy way. But once you get rid of that and it becomes a product that you can make a lot of money on, you also have risks. So you're gonna need a government that makes rules. That also applies to the earning model of mediators. As far as I'm concerned, if they add value to the market, consultants can really make a good living, because they can help you get on your way with financial products. But just an ad click that gets €100... I think it's good to make that visible. That is why, I hope, within twenty minutes, there will be an amendment for the transparency of commissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The law implementing the directive is in itself good in its own right. So I'm not going to waste too many words on that either. This bill was also first presented as a hammer piece. But I have two more points on which I would like to make my point on behalf of the PvdA Group and on which I would like to ask the Minister's response. The first is non-life insurance. Those aren't subject to the restraining order. That was because the amounts involved were relatively small: bicycle insurance, telephone insurance. It's the question of how wise people do to buy all that stuff, but well, it's all being sold. Of that we said at the time: it is really not necessary. But there can be a lot of margin. So the question is whether you should not consider a commission ban for that, especially when you see that the evaluation of the commission ban is actually positive. If you don't, shouldn't you at least make it clear and insightful what those commissions are? This is in line with what Mrs Leijten has just said. I'd say that's the least of it. Well, at least make it clear what a person who sells insurance like that makes of it. I wouldn't be surprised if there are insurances where the commission is higher than the insurance itself. That happens, and it's kind of problematic. Let's say you have phone insurance, and it costs a couple of tens. Then how do you know what the commission is and what the actual value of the insurance is? Actually, I think it would be good to have that debate. That is the first point. The second point is also about insightfulness, namely when you purchase insurance via websites. What fairy do they get? Independer is of course one of the most famous. In this case, too, there is quite a lot to say to know what the earning model is like, whether you can take out insurance in another way, which is cheaper for you, and whether you actually get the best advice through those sites or just advice that they deserve the most commission. We should at least arrange for you to know what they're making out of it, so what the incentives are for such a website. How does the Minister view this? Because a lot of these insurances are sold through websites where you get the impression as a consumer that you independently get the best deal, although you actually feel and know that you don't. Those websites and people need to exist, and we're not all crazy, so we do know something's stuck somewhere. But we don't know exactly how. It would be good to know. So I'd like to ask the Minister if he's willing to give that insight. How can that be legal? Or should it be otherwise? 'Cause I'd be okay with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On this Wednesday evening, the Feyenoord-PSV competition will not leave the number of viewers to this debate on the Insurance Distribution Directive. However, the directive is important. He focuses on something that almost all adult Dutch people have to do with, namely the sale of insurance and the advice that comes with this. It is therefore a good thing that we have a brief debate on this. I would like to make three points on behalf of the CDA: the proportionality of legislation, the degree of dependence on the advice given and whether or not it is transparent about the fees for non-life insurance. First of all, the proportionality of legislation. We have heard that the Minister intends to terminate certain exemptions for the application of the Wft. A consultation on this decision is currently under way. This concerns, for example, very specific insurance such as hail insurance and horse insurance. This means that these insurances, which are already in a niche market, are subject to much stricter rules, with potentially high costs which are disproportionate to the potential risks. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is the intention of the legislation. Or does he see the possibility of allowing the exemption for these sectors to exist after the decision has been consulted? The second point concerns the independence of the advice we are discussing. The purpose of the Directive is to allow consumers to assume that they are actually independent from an advisor who expresses himself as "independent." However, in the performance chosen in the Netherlands, an advisor, even the one who calls himself "independent," only has to indicate in the service document to the consumer whether the advice was based on an objective analysis. At the moment, the regulation does not stipulate that "independent" actually means that a sufficient number of products are compared. I would ask the Minister whether it is still possible for an advisor who profiles himself to the outside world as "independent" to advise only products from one particular supplier or insurance group which happens to have five different brands, labels or products under its umbrella. If the consultant makes one comment on this in the service document, that would be enough. In our view, this does not help the consumer. It assumes that an independent opinion really means that a comparison has been made on the basis of adequate analysis of products on the market. Is the Minister prepared to better define the underlying regulation, so that an independent consultant can only express himself as such if the opinion is truly independent? Finally, the transparency of commission costs. It is actually something that this directive is not about, but I would like to make a comment on it. Last week, the review of the ban on commissions was sent to the Chamber. It raises the question of whether it is a good idea to extend the commission ban to non-life insurance. The lobby for this and this has already got off to a good start. Insurers argue for greater transparency and hope, of course, to sell more insurance through their own channels and to save on the commission. Advisors argue against further transparency as it would raise more questions than solve problems. Also, transparency would not reflect how costs are used, whether the commission is not only raised but is also used for better services, for example in the case of damages. We will continue to discuss the evaluation of the ban on commissions, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he will explicitly engage in discussions with all stakeholders, as well as experts outside the insurers and consultants mentioned above, when asking whether the ban should include non-life insurance. As far as we are concerned, does he also involve consumer organisations and businesses to hear how they are looking at such a measure: are they getting on with it? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u38	A minister who talks with all stakeholders is of course always good, but we already have a very good picture. The Consumers' Association, the Authority for Financial Markets, but also insurers themselves say that they are at least for commission transparency. What exactly does the CDA say in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u39	As I indicated, the evaluation has been announced this week. The Minister has indicated that he will respond to that. But I don't think we should jump to that conclusion. Of course, the CDA is in the basis for transparency, but you can see that the small advisors who are actually standing by the local parties to give advice also do a lot of consulting work that has to be paid out of that commission. If you introduce a commission transparency or even a ban on that part, this means that the coverage of those costs will go away. Then the competitive position of these small parties is very disadvantaged in relation to the large market players. So we really want to look at the evaluation very carefully. We are now asking the Minister, with all this gremia, to look again at the impact when you would make a change to it and only then to conclude whether we really want full transparency and/or a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u40	In your words, I actually hear doubts about a ban on commission, because you automatically pay consultancy fees and because that is better for the small players in the market. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u41	A ban can have a negative development, yes. It runs out of the market in this sense and gives more power to the major parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u42	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u43	It should appeal to you as a SP'er that we want to look very closely at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u44	Sure, sure! I'm trying to listen too, aren't I? I'm trying to understand. That's definitely something to look at. But there are still a lot of small advisors, and I have also seen that, precisely because advice costs were no longer out of commission with the ban on commissioning, they have made a professionalisation battle because, for example, they are no longer dependent on one provider. They can simply say to their customer: I give you the advice and you pay for it, but that means you have lower costs. That is why I was wondering what you were on about: transparency or a ban or nothing at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u45	I went to work last week with a small insurance company. It showed that with small products you can make everything very transparent, but at some point you draw the shortest conclusion. Then it is only detrimental to the consumer. We, as CDA, are not yet clear on the exact direction we are going, but we must make that assessment very clear. We want to make the best choice for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr. Chairman. This morning, I took a slightly broader lead on financial markets and the importance of transparency. In this debate, I will try to get to the main point a little faster. In fact, because a lot of questions have already been asked that I would have liked to ask, I try to improvise, so that my text is shortened even further. My first set of questions was about the evaluation of the commission ban. In this, the Minister himself says that this ban will improve the functioning of the market in insurance products and make it more objective. He indicates that this may also be a reason to look at transparency about commissions for non-life insurance. Questions have been asked about this before, and I am happy to endorse that. You could even consider whether a commission ban on non-life insurance could work. I think this is particularly important, because both the Financial Markets Authority and the Consumer Union have indicated that this should be regulated in this way, especially when considering that consumer research by the AFM shows that 87% of consumers want to be actively informed. I would like a response from the Minister to these questions, including from previous colleagues. Then I quickly come to another theme. This is a question on the basis of the note following the report on reliability, competence and organisational requirements. The Minister states that they do not apply to intermediaries with a registered office in the Netherlands whose head office is in another Member State. In that case, the requirements of the Member State in which the principal place of business is situated will apply. I understand that minimum knowledge and competence requirements are applied at European level to such intermediaries, but it is not really clear to me how the Dutch rules relate to the rules in other countries. Is it true that a financial service provider with a foreign head office is ultimately subject to less stringent rules? If so, what are the differences? Can foreign financial service providers be less reliable than Dutch? Or are there even Member States that apply stricter rules? I'd like a clarification from the Minister. I have two questions about the consequences of this difference. Can we ultimately refuse a licence to foreign intermediaries with their head office abroad if we believe that they no longer meet minimum requirements? Isn't this something you'd like transparency in? In other words, can the AFM, the Consumers' Association or any other organisation make transparent which companies meet what knowledge and competence requirements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Paternotte. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Chairman. I have received some WhatsApp messages from people who say that several speakers have referred to the empty gallery and that that does wrong to the viewers at home who are watching us tonight despite Feyenoord-PSV. To this I want to do them justice...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u51	...and thank you for their interest. I want to go back to the year that Jan Peter Balkenende took over Wim Kok, when Geert Wilders was still a member of the VVD, De Wereldroert Door and Boer is looking for Woman not yet existed, Brad Pitt was still married to Jennifer Aniston, we found our way with the ANWB Wegenatlas and we had never heard of Wuppies. Because that was the last time an implementing insurance mediation law went through this Chamber. It is therefore high time that we took care of this modernisation sixteen years later, because today's insurance is quite different from that of 2002. After all, we no longer order insurance by post, we make online requests. It is high time we modernised insurance legislation and better aligned within Europe, so that we give clarity to consumers and make it easier for providers to offer their products in our neighbouring countries as well. Mr Snels raises a number of valid questions. We do believe that it is also good for insured persons, because better competition leads to a lower premium. We are also confident that good cooperation between supervisors will lead to more choice for insured persons. What we must do is to ensure that the good elements of the Dutch system are preserved. For example, the sector in the Netherlands has developed its own insurance card to clarify to the consumer what they are closing and what advantages and disadvantages a product has compared to that of the competitor. Now we move on to a European-developed information document. Advantage is that it becomes easier to compare which products are offered in other countries, but does this mean that we lose our own insurance card? Or can these two exist side by side? I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how we continue to give consumers good insight without giving too much information. As Mr Van der Linde said, with too much information it is no longer possible for people to process it. This clarity is also important when consumers independently seek advice on their options for a financial product. This is particularly true when we talk about so-called complex financial products with an investment component. Independent advice must also be truly independent. Mrs Leijten translated that just to the restaurant choice for dinners with the minister she is organizing. I share that analysis. Now independent advice is defined as at least half of the market. This could remove the other half of the market from the opinion, which is by definition detrimental to consumers. Anyone looking for a new house at Funda and not seeing half the houses may pay too high a price. An independent consultant is therefore not entirely independent if he can steer by selecting the offer. The solution to this could indeed be for an independent consultant to determine his advice on the basis of a much larger part of the market, perhaps even 100% as some mortgage intermediaries are already doing. My question is whether the Minister wants to apply the 100% independent advice model or at least the 100% commitment to implementing this law. I'm considering a motion on this point. I also think that clarity is important when we talk about the commission a consultant or mediator gets. Thanks to the ban on commission, the customer knows what he or she is paying for the advice. The Minister concluded this week that the commission ban is effective. The importance of the customer is more important, the customer is also willing to pay for good advice and the offer on for example comparison sites makes the market much more insightful. The Netherlands now retains the ban on commission for insurance with an investment component, but advisors may receive commission on non-life insurance. The customer often does not see this because he pays the same premium. A lot of questions have been asked about it. What is the Minister's view of an active obligation to provide information to providers on the commission they receive, especially when it is not directly visible in the premium paid by the customer? Mr President, two more comments. The current law exempts ancillary insurance intermediaries. These are often small companies that offer insurance with their product, for example a glassmaker who also offers glass insurance when replacing a window. My question is whether the removal of this exemption for ancillary insurance intermediaries as a measure is proportionate in relation to the provision of services of these very small companies. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. I started for a while with the timeliness of this implementation law. The first deadline for the transfer of this Directive will be 23 February. That is in four weeks' time and next to the House of Representatives this country knows, as I saw last night through the treatment of the donor law, a Upper Chamber. We now have a brand-new, brand-new minister. My question is whether he has the ambition to implement directives on time in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you. I look at the Minister and I would like to hear from him how much time he needs to prepare his response to the Chamber. That's 15 minutes. That's what we're gonna do, minus one minute. We will continue this debate at 9.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u53	I'll resume the meeting. The Minister will answer the Chamber in the first term. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you also for the many substantive comments, suggestions and questions I have to ask. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte referred to the period long, long ago that we had this subject for the first time by means of a directive. Quite rightly, he also said how much and how much the world has changed since then. He did that more visually than I did, but I very much endorse that. Today's directive has three objectives. First, a level playing field for all market players involved in the sale of insurance. Secondly, to improve consumer protection; an objective which I think is very appealing to all of us. Thirdly, the promotion of a European market for financial services. To achieve a level playing field, the rules apply not only to mediators or advisers, but also to insurers themselves. In order to improve consumer protection, the rules of conduct are tightened. One could say that the directive is catching up in a way, because for the Netherlands, many of these rules are not really new. They're already in the Financial Supervision Act. I had that law on my desk again yesterday, and that's a pretty big book. In the Netherlands, for example, there are already rules on the professional competence of the advisors and on the provision of information to the consumer on the degree of independence of the advice. We have also known the product development process for insurers in the Netherlands for a long time. Perhaps I should also conclude that the usefulness and necessity of the directive in itself can count on great support in the Chamber. To the same extent, I think that is true of the letter I wrote about the effectiveness of the ban on commissions. The questions were actually much more about what else could or should be added. At least that's how I interpreted it. I would like to distinguish between three categories. First of all, the active commission transparency in non-life insurance. Mr Nijboer asked about it, Mrs Leijten, Mr Ronnes, and a number of others. The second point that Mrs Leijten has once again asked for in particular is the obligation to provide advice. Then there is a third category with a large number of other and sometimes quite technical questions which I would like to answer. But let me start with that commission transparency. There was also Mr Van der Linde's question, but I mentioned Mr Leijten... Let me put it precisely: Mrs Leijten, Mr Nijboer, and Mr Ronnes, Mr Snels and Mr Paternotte, and I had started with Mr Van der Linde; that is, everyone! How do I feel about active commission transparency in case of damage? That's where it's important to take a look at what's going on here. This bill implements only the Insurance Distribution Directive. Active commission transparency is not part of that Directive. There would be a national headline. Many in this house are not in favour of that. The coalition agreement is also explicit about this. So that's not desirable. But I think there's an important one to make here. I do not want to do anything about a national head, but I am prepared, because I see the substance of the Chamber very well, to consult with the various stakeholders, the consumer organisations also mentioned there, in order to identify the advantages and disadvantages of this active transparency of commissions in non-life insurance. In any case, there is still a discussion to be held, as I announced in my letter, on the evaluation of the ban on commissions, so I am going to do so anyway. My proposal would be to take this particular point into account as well and to inform your Chamber of this before the summer. So I would really like to decouple it from this directive, but I would like to see whether, in some other way, but perhaps also in legislation, something should be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mrs Leijten has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u56	I also said it this morning or perhaps I just said it; we have had a lot of debates today, Mr President. Of course, the Minister talking to the field is fine, but we now have a supervisor, the AFM, who is in favour of that. We have consumer organisations who argue in favour of this. Now we can say we're gonna look at it and make a new law. Then we know that we are stuck on a course of one and a half years, while we can also regulate it today by means of an amendment in the law. You can change the Financial Supervision Act via this law. What would be against doing that faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u57	I had the impression it was a hand-out myself. I will leave it in the middle whether Mrs Leijten wants more or whether my offer was, by definition, far too thin. Look, just really very specific: this is a directive. We always implement them in the Netherlands free sec. That's also the tradition in this house. Moreover, this coalition also prefers not to want national headlines because that often complicates life. At the same time, I see clearly the desire that lives in the Chamber. I can imagine that myself. Mrs Leijten is right that some of the field parties have already expressed themselves explicitly about this. However, it is precisely for this reason that I would not like to choose the route of an amendment and to regulate it at once in the law, but to study for a little longer. Then the implementation time may be a little longer, but then we do it neatly and we also really know what we say yes or no to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u58	But then it is above all a substantive assessment, because with the implementation of this directive we are choosing a headline. We're proud of that, too. That's the restraining order. That's what's in it now. This is a little less than a restraining order. I myself made the analysis that this was less feasible because CDA and SP motions could not count on a majority in the past. You could also say that by means of an amendment, you can arrange for it to come into effect a little later, so that you can always make up for it. If you can settle it by law now, I think it's a bit of a long stretch to say: maybe there will be a new law in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u59	For me, it feels like a generous commitment. I'm going to go through the other questions about the restraining order. Mr Snels asked in the same direction: is it a good idea? I think I answered that. Mr Nijboer specifically asked about the transparency of comparison sites. A site that advises or mediates should, of course, inform the client about how the comparison site is rewarded. Comparison sites that do not mediate or advise and therefore do not fall within the scope of the Wft but are affiliated to the Trustmark Objective Comparison should indicate on their website what their earning model is and what the average commission received per product group is. That'll get me right to the next block. That's about the advisory duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u60	That would assume that we all know what's going on. I'll just keep it to myself; maybe the Minister knows it very precisely. How does Independer earn more than his money and how much is that on insurance or a mortgage? If it's all so transparent, I can get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u61	No, I've been trying to outline the rules. I didn't try to pretend to know by heart what it's like on every one of those websites. But I think I gave the answer to Mr Nijboer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u62	In that case, the Minister's answer is that what you want is already settled. Then my problem is: why don't you maintain and why don't people know that? Or why is it so invisible or intransparent or doesn't anyone see it? Because I would say: if I click on an insurance, I want to know if there is 10% or 5% commission on it or a fixed amount or I know a lot what. As far as I am concerned, that should be the implementation of what is laid down in the law, as the Minister has just explained. Then my appeal would be: make sure that the current law is implemented as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u63	Let me see if I can say something sensible about the implementation in the second term, because I do not know if I have the examples ready for me immediately. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the second block. It's about advice. Mrs Leijten asked: why has the Member State option not been used to require advice on insurance with an investment component? As far as I am concerned, that is really a different category from the first category, on which I agree to a large extent with the Chamber in terms of intuition, if I may put it that way. In the Member State option for mandatory advice, you have a balance of interests between what you want to do to all consumers or not. We think it is important that the client has the choice whether or not to seek advice. Why do we care about that? If you make that advice mandatory for everyone, it will lead to higher costs for all consumers. The exact costs of course depend on the complexity. The advisory costs for death risk insurance typically amount to a euro or 400. However, in the case of more complex insurance, such as disability insurance, the average rate of disability is not the peak of around €700. I understand very well what Mrs Leijten is trying to do, but I would like to make it quite clear that if you impose this on all the clients, it will also entail huge costs. The Netherlands has no obligation to advise, but if a customer wants to take out insurance with an investment component or disability insurance without advice, then there are obligations. The financial service provider must then determine whether insurance and services are appropriate for the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u64	I understand very well what the Minister is saying. It's not about trying to get people to pay. The point is that people who report to an insurance agent for an insurance policy with such an investment component must be aware of the risks involved. When it gets that one hand feeds another because of course that insurance agent wants to sell, then you can get into trouble again. I have been a financial spokesman for almost a year now, but when I see people coming by with which people have gone into the ship and the years of misery that that means, such as usury policies and interest rate derivatives, we have heard the whole list come by this morning too, and then I want to remove it. Now it is up to the financial advisor to make sure that someone needs advice and whether or not someone can estimate it. I think that's too tricky anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u65	But it is choosing between two evils, if I may put it that way. I think we all see the problem Mrs Leijten is putting forward. The financial service provider shall determine what is appropriate for the client. I interpret Mrs Leijten's words in such a way that she finds this arbitrary. Then perhaps the self-interest comes around the corner. She didn't say it like that, but I think that's what she meant. This could occur in some cases; let me put it carefully. I think she's right about that. But we find the alternative even less attractive, no matter how much we see this problem. The alternative is to say that everyone should always use advice. So with each of those insurances, everyone's going to pay a few hundred euros, and sometimes a lot more, even towards the €1,000, in consultancy fees. The first problem to be corrected by higher costs is, we believe, not the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u66	Finally, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u67	For example, disability insurance may be for people who really need it because they do not work through a permanent contract, such as a farmer or a self-employed person without a staff. These insurances are often very expensive, but if a consumer buys a cat in the bag, with insurance that turns out not to be worth anything at the time he needs it, then I would like us to have more in our hands to protect that consumer. Are there other ways to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u68	Maybe I can further specify what needs to be done now. The financial service provider shall assess whether the customer has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand whether there are risks. Mrs Leijten knows that, too. That customer should be warned if he has insufficient knowledge and experience to assess the risks. It is also the case that the AFM supervises or actually puts parties into practice. If Mrs Leijten asks me if that system is waterproof, I will of course say in all honesty: no. It will undoubtedly be the case that once in a while someone will suffer. At the same time, I think that this combination of safeguards, the duty we impose on parties in conjunction with the AFM check and the risks to reputation if they do not comply with that, is quite solid. Not perfect, not waterproof, but pretty solid. Especially if I have to weigh that against the alternative, which is to make everyone pay very substantial amounts. Because Mrs Leijten will agree with me: you ask a lot of people like her with such insurance, even if they think they are well informed, €400, €500, €600 and sometimes up to over €1,000 in costs. The following question was put by Mrs Leijten, Mr Ronnes and Mr Paternotte. What exactly is independent advice? Because that is of course relevant here. It is good to recall that the concept of "independent advice" does not exist in the Wft, or at least is not used in this context, but rather the concept of "objective analysis." A consultant should inform a client whether or not to advise on the basis of an objective analysis. In this way the consultant makes his independence clear to the customer. An objective analysis then means that the consultant makes an analysis of more than 50% of comparable insurances available on the market. There is therefore no rapid objective analysis and therefore no independent advice if only a comparison is made between two or three insurances. Surely it's an interesting question whether it's 50% good enough. I think that Mr Paternotte went in that direction in particular. I would like to say to him that, in the evaluation we are already going to do, we will consider whether it would be wise to increase that percentage further. You also have to weigh two things, which I would also like to outline. You can increase that percentage, but how high is that going to be? Is it realistic to go to 60% or 70%? I say that because Mr Paternotte mentioned 100%. I think that's pretty high again. You also have to ask yourself how high the costs are that are incurred, that eventually fall down with the customer, if you want to go a long way up from 50%. So with these two comments, which I believe should be part of the questions, I would like to have them examined. Then I have arrived at a large number of more technical questions from a large number of Members. Mr Ronnes asked if I could maintain the current exemption of intermediaries in hail damage insurance, livestock and horse insurance. I think Mr Paternotte asked for something similar, but then about glass insurance. The reason for exemption from these intermediaries was that they are persons who, in addition to their often agricultural activities, offer hail damage insurance, livestock and horse insurance or glass insurance. General insurance knowledge was found to be of minor importance for these insurances. Maintaining a full exemption is not possible because of the Insurance Distribution Directive. That is where we simply run into the limits of the directive. However, the Wft exemption scheme is currently being consulted. Moreover, this consultation period will end tomorrow and I will look into the possibilities for an enlightened regime for this type of mediator following the consultations. For example, it will be considered whether insurers can play a role in guaranteeing the competence of these mediators, because that is the scope left by the directive. Mr. Chairman. The VVD asked if I may interpret it in this way to make consumers self-reliant with regard to insurance. Mr Van der Linde specifically asked if there was a role for Nibud, Wijzer in money matters and other civil society organisations to make insurance understandable and to increase self-reliance. With that, he's hitting the nail on the head: wiser in money matters is also exactly there for that purpose. I believe that Wijzer is celebrating ten-year existence in money matters later this year. In Wijzer in money matters, the Minister of Finance, the partners in the financial sector, science and civil society organisations, including the Nibud, combine all their efforts to increase financially responsible behaviour in the Netherlands. This is particularly true with regard to insurance. I think that is a very fair question. It is not a problem that Wijzer can solve in money matters alone, but I think it is good to note that we are doing a lot better in the Netherlands in general than many other countries. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels asked: could financial service providers from other countries be less reliable? He just used something different language, I think, but at least that's how I interpreted his question. This is also a question on which we had to study for a while. If they mediate in the Netherlands, they must also apply for a permit in the Netherlands. They have to meet all the permit requirements, and they have to have a branch here. There is therefore no longer any difference with Dutch mediators. Intermediaries with a seat in another Member State do not need to establish a branch here, but must meet the minimum requirements of the Directive. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I'm almost finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr Snels has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u70	In the end, therefore, there are differences with mediators who have a seat here but have a head office in another country. Can these differences be very large? This concerns reliability, competence and organisational requirements. Those foreign mediators will then be allowed to meet the minimum requirements from another country. Can these differences be very large?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u71	That's a good question. I think that the soil laid by the directive really creates a certain minimum standard of quality. At the same time, I would not like to venture a comprehensive guarantee that this means that all those advisers in all those Member States are doing exactly what that directive requires. I do not think that is necessarily necessary either. We need to look at what those parties do that meet the description that Mr Snels refers to, and whether this will not cause Dutch consumers any problems. If that were the case, it is of course up to the AFM to signal this and act against it. But I don't have any signals that that's the case. We really needed to figure this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u72	No, but this directive is now being transposed into legislation. First of all, that could mean something for the playing field...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u73	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u74	... because there is still an uneven playing field on the Dutch market. That is actually crazy, from the point of view of European legislation. The second question I asked was whether it could also be made transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u75	Yes. Those are two different questions, which I would like to break up anyway. In the first question, Mr Snels is actually asking for a hypothetical situation which might still arise. It is not the subject I am most concerned about, not even within the context of this dossier. But can I say with 100% certainty that that won't happen? No, I can't. I would not be surprised if this law would be reviewed at any time. That seems to me to be a good time to take this along, also because I suspect that if the problem Mr Snels points out would arise, it will not be in the first six months. The second point is his question on transparency. We should be able to respond to that more quickly. I would actually like to use the period until the summer and the evaluation to see what the advantages and disadvantages are. I do not know if we should imagine too much of that, but I understand that Mr Snels is actually saying: you should be able to find somewhere on that website, whether you are dealing with a national or an international party, directly or indirectly. That's my interpretation. I don't think that's a crazy idea, but I'd like to buy some time and space for that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Paternotte asked whether the insurance card that the Netherlands already knew could continue to exist. The answer to that is yes. There are no problems with limited adjustments. Finally, Mr Paternotte asked me whether I would like to see to it that I also arrive at both the Second and the First Chamber on time with guidelines. At least that's how I interpreted it. I would like to assure him that I will always be committed to timely implementation and, therefore, timely treatment, not only from the outset, but certainly from now on, following this point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you. I think you have come to the end of answering the questions of the Chamber. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. Mr Van der Linde shakes no, but I also see Members nodding yes. Mrs Leijten states that she would like a moment to work on a motion. Then we shall suspend a single moment to give the Chamber the opportunity to prepare its motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u77	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr. Chairman. My amendment has been distributed. That is the part of the debate. As I said earlier, I believe that the regulator and consumer organisations are asking for it and there are good reasons for doing so now. I would actually like to go much further: a commission ban. But that can always happen. This requires a new law, which applies to all non-life insurance, including health insurance. But until there is, it seems very good that it becomes transparent. That is why I have tabled this amendment. Now we have the law. Now we can settle it legally. I think this is the most practical way forward. I also have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u79	You also have a question from Mr Van der Linde. You want to interrupt the amendment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u80	Yeah, for the record. Then we've dealt with that, too. Apart from the political debate on its desirability, I try to understand how it will take shape in practice. Does that middleman have to hand all that out in writing to the client? Then there comes first a disclaimer about the scope of the service and then something about how he is rewarded. Is it intended to be handed over in writing at the time of a customer's arrival? How does that work in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u81	It seems to me he's reporting that in writing, or in a conversation. In the conversation you say: I get €80 for this. Or you put on the website: we get €100 for this. That is transparency. Then the customer can say: oh, I think that's a lot, I'm going to go check on someone else. Whether the customer, or in this case, the insurer, says: well, I apparently pay for your services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you. Proceed with your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u83	I had an interrupting debate with the Minister on the advice. I can understand why we don't want to burden people with costs. But we also don't want to burden people with risks. I gave the example of disability insurance. It is absolutely necessary for some people, but it is also extremely expensive. Then it can be very attractive to include an investment component. I know what that sounds like: you're a thief of your wallet if you don't. And: the markets are now making a good profit, and then it grows harder. But yes, if you need it then you always hope that you don't need insurance and the coverage is worthless, then you have put in a lot or you have thought that there was a certain value to it when there isn't. See all the files we're talking about in this house. The Minister said he was doing a huge hand-off to dissuade my amendment, but at least he ordered himself to talk to the sector. So I modified my original motion accordingly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas insurance with an investment element carries a higher risk and the insured person may be faced with worthless cover if he needs the insurance;]] [[Whereas the current way of determining whether an insurance with an investment component is appropriate for the consumer carries risks;]] [[noting that supervisors indicate that there are financial institutions which are structuralally violating their duty of care and disclosure;]] [[invites the Government, with supervisors and consumer organisations, to examine how risks can be reduced and to inform the Court about the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34770-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u84	It could also be through fines or quicker warning of certain advisers. This morning, I tabled a motion to the effect that supervisors might have to take active action in this type of structural infringement. This is in a bit of the same line. Sometimes it is useful to have two debates on reasonably touching subjects in one day. But then the Minister also understands why I have included these considerations. I would also like to say that I have co-signed Mr Paternotte's motion. That motion is based on independent advice and market research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate focuses a little on transparency, European headlines, directives and that sort of thing. The Chamber is always free to make amendments to laws in legal proceedings, especially to adjacent laws, which is the Financial Supervision Act. The debate on whether this is a European headline or not is, in fact, a little inappropriate. Because this is very close to legislation on transparency and the ban on commissioning. If you then table an amendment to an adjacent law, that is not a European headline. That is just national legislation on the establishment of our insurance system. I assume that the Minister is not in favour of European supervision of insurance behaviour. That was never the cabinet, and so it is a national matter and these amendments can also be simply tabled and dealt with. I do have a positive attitude towards the Minister's hand-out. He says he wants to identify the advantages and disadvantages of transparency of non-life insurance. He will therefore not recommend Mrs Leijten's amendment. At the same time, I would like to give a little more direction than to formulate it so openly, all the more so because I suspect that there are a lot of insurances where the commission is so high and the underlying insured so low that, if you open your eyes and put the light on it, those insurances would quickly disappear from the market or at least the earning model of it. It's about bicycle insurance, telephone insurance, and I don't know what kind of insurance it is anymore. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. I'm gonna have to get the right ones, and that's this one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ban on commissioning does not apply to non-life insurance;]] [[whereas the consumer is not now able to properly compare the amount of commission his intermediary receives, while this may affect his or her choice;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Decision Behavioural Supervision Financial Undertakings Wft that fees for non-life insurance are made clear to consumers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34770-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u87	Then I had a nice consumer debate with the Minister about the profits made by Independer and comparison sites. The minister said that they should actually report all of that, and I looked up all of that back then. I mean, I've almost taken out insurance once in a while, but you won't be able to find out. But it has to be said: if you are looking carefully on the website... you have to take some time to do so... indeed you get quite good information. Car insurance has an average of €51 per year, health insurance €25 per year, based on five years average, and residential insurance €26. That's all pretty much listed as it should be. Only, you actually want to know this when you close this up. It shouldn't be that you can't see what they're making until you search a website like this. If you make a purchase at a store somewhere, you also want to know the build-up. That's one point. Two. This is one website. I've looked at three or four others and there was no way to find anything except: we get commissions and that varies from insurer to insurer. So it's really not in order in that market yet. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear how much commission will be provided for comparison sites for insurance with consumers;]] [[Whereas comparison websites can have a significant impact on people's choices, for example through advertising, website layout, advice and newsletters;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that comparison sites are transparent about the fees received when taking out insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34770-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66, because the other Members have waived their second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for the excellent answer and for the generous commitment to Mrs Leijten to further examine the possibilities of a wider ban on commissioning. We also had a discussion on the independent opinion. I would also like to thank you for the explanation of the objective analysis behind what might be an independent opinion. I think we can all agree that here is the case: the market-wider, the better for the consumer, normally, because then the consumer is simply served on the basis of more options. But now, of course, it can be said that, in order to map these options at some point in time at a certain percentage, the thresholds become such that they do not serve the consumer. Of course, we're looking for that border. It can vary from one product to another. I have a motion asking the Minister to strive for a model as market-wide as possible, in which an independent consultant at least sent in that opinion himself, so that the consumer is best served. I'm actually filing that motion with the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of the Insurance Distribution Directive is to provide consumers with clear and transparent information;]] [[noting that the Netherlands uses the Member State option to further prescribe where an independent opinion may be present;]] [[considers that an independent opinion can only be obtained when a market-wide comparison has been made;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with the sector, the feasibility of a market-wide comparison as a basis for independent advice and to share its conclusions with the Court before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34770-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u91	Then I would just like to wish the Minister every success in implementing European directives in good time, which generally contain so much good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you. I have a question for Mrs Leijten on the first motion. Mrs Leijten, did you submit it on behalf of Mr Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u93	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u94	We didn't understand that for a moment. You have, however, co-signed the motion that has just been tabled. There was a bit of confusion with us for a while, but now we understand. I'm looking at the minister. Can he respond immediately or doesn't he have all the motions yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. I can respond immediately, but I haven't got all the motions in front of me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u96	I get that. Then we'll wait a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u97	I don't have all the motions in front of me yet. I did get the first three motions from the messenger. Let's get started. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the motions and for further fine grinding the subjects by the various members of your home. Mr Nijboer had spent his break very usefully, or perhaps not even his break but all the piece that preceded it, because he was already wiser than I am about what can and can't be found. Look, it's okay to sketch this, and I owed him that, too, which should be transparent and non-transparent. What needs to be transparent is the form, for example through commission or direct payment by the customer and so on. What does not have to be transparent, but sometimes it is, is the height. This also explains the outcome of the search by Mr Nijboer for several websites. The rules governing this are also enforced, but they are, I understand, less beautiful than Mr Nijboer might want. I'll be right back on his motion. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mrs Leijten's amendment. I really mean what I said. I may be a little ironic, but it wasn't ironic when I said I thought that was a generous commitment. Especially because I really agree with the point they have made and several other speakers. I would like to have this seriously examined, but I do not think that we should do this through an amendment, precisely for the reasons I have outlined earlier. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the first motion, in part No. 8 from Mrs Leijten. In that she asks me with a great deal of nuance whether I would like to examine how risks can be reduced and whether I would like to inform the Chamber about that outcome. I wasn't exactly excited when I started reading, but I see that nuance appearing all the way at the end and I'm willing to talk to the supervisors about this. I do not entirely agree with all the considerations contained in the motion, but I would like to leave it to the Chamber. This means that I will come back to this at a later date, but I would like to point out to Mrs Leijten that I think she has understood what I think is more important than that. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the second motion, to item No. 9. I was just saying something about active transparency. That is what Mr Nijboer's motion is about. That's where I'd really like the ball to do the job. I would advise against that motion. I understand that he says that if you set the light on it, it might be that the business will at least cease to exist at this point. I think that is his conclusion, and it would be justified in some sense, but I would like the ball to do the job for a moment. I'm at the third motion, in part No. 10, by Mr Nijboer, on comparison sites. However much we have just exchanged what is covered by the passive and active obligation to provide information and what they must and must not produce, I would like to advise against the motion. This should be the same as for other compensation fees, so first consultation and discussions with stakeholders and perhaps come back to that. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the motion in part No. 11 by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u98	Just a minute. I shall first give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u99	Do I understand correctly that the Minister is willing to check whether the comparison websites have been properly arranged? To only the phrase "we are paid with commissions" somewhere three-way-behind a site of course nobody has anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u100	I'd be happy to do that in the process I'm about to end anyway. I would also like Mr Nijboer to give his word. But the motion as it has been drafted, I would advise against it. If we can find each other in that, I think he will get a lot of what he wants in terms of content, but not everything he wants in terms of procedure. That's very smooth, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u101	I always prefer that the verdict on a motion should be before the Chamber, but I think it is a gain that the Minister is willing to take the comparison sites with him when he outlines the pros and cons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u103	That's a step further. I have already drawn the final conclusion and I would like the Minister to reach that conclusion in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u104	That is because Mr Nijboer is much faster in understanding than I am. I really need to study on it. That brings me to the fourth motion, to item No. 11, on independent opinions, by Mr Paternotte and Mr Leijten. Independent advice is very important. The interpretation of the concept must be practical and must have added value for consumers; this is, of course, what this is about. Also in this motion I am called to engage with stakeholders. I think that would be a good idea again. I would therefore also like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. Mr. Chairman. At first I thought I had to make five motions, but I think I have answered all the questions and shared my views on all the motions with the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-10.u105	Yes, you do. This brings us to the end of the debate, thanks to all who have followed us, the Minister and Members of Parliament. I'm closing the meeting for today.
