ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u1	We will continue with the debate on the informal European summit. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I thought I'd start with the subject Brexit. Then I will talk about migration, Article 7 Hungary, Juncker's speech and finally miscellaneous, others. We have been asked where we are at the moment regarding the Brexit. That's an interesting question. It also depends a little on where you sit to see where we stand, but let me try. As you know, there has also been limited progress in the media since the European Council meeting in Article 50 on 28 and 29 June, i.e. before the summer. There are a few big open points. A lot's round. The outstanding points in the withdrawal agreement are, of course, the Irish-Northern Ireland border issue, as well as the role of the European Court of Justice of the European Union and, consequently, the broad governance issues. Furthermore, there are a number of other issues which, I think, are less complex, such as protected designations of origin, geographical indications and the treatment of data already in the UK. There is also, of course, the idea that we will also agree on the political declarations in the context of future relations. These are difficult at the moment, with discussions on internal and external security going more constructively and making considerable progress in relation to the talks on the intended economic cooperation. In doing so, we must note that the United Kingdom's proposals on economic co-operation, i.e. that economic partnership, in its present form, do not seem to be in the interest of the European Union because it would undermine the level playing field and thereby give the United Kingdom an unfair competitive advantage. Of course, I also have to work within the framework we are discussing here, namely the importance of a level playing field, which has also been widely appointed here in the Chamber. In addition, there is, of course, the issue of whether the proposals made by the UK are compatible with the guidelines adopted by the European Council and the EU's fringe conditions, as laid down in the guidelines. Now, of course, it's complicated. You could say we're making a withdrawal agreement. I think we can work that out. I also think that the problem of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg can be solved and we are making a political statement that more or less leaves open what exactly this future economic relationship looks like. You'll have a little more time. The only problem is that in the context of these various documents on retirement and the future relationship, i.e. the political declaration, the problem of the Irish border, the border between the Republic and the province on the island of the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland must also be solved. A backstop formula has been found that says: if nothing else comes out, then the backstop should be that there should be no hard limit, that the border runs more or less in the Irish Sea. That is not acceptable to the British unless they have a view of a future relationship that can prevent that hard border in the Irish Sea. That is why the proposals have been made in Chequers, not only in order to resolve this issue, but also because we are actually trying to give substance to the future relationship. That's about the playing field. My suspicion is politically spoken that it will be discussed next week, but not that we are already setting out guidelines, if only because it is not a formal European Council but an informal meeting. Then, of course, the following weeks will have to be intensively discussed with the UK. It seems to me that you will then have three major issues on the table that partly affect the exit agreement and partly the future relationship description, the political declaration. That is first and foremost governance. I think this should be soluble. More complex is the UK's desire to remain in any way connected with the internal market for goods. And three, the question of the customs union and the British proposal to establish a somewhat complicated system whereby the British say to a greater or lesser extent: these are goods for the European Union, these are goods not for the European Union, we do that administration. That seems to me to be something that will be very difficult for Europe. I think that will be about the three major discussions. Those countries then in those different declarations. We still have a little time towards October, November, but that time is of course running out. We have also been asked by several Members how we assess the political situation in Great Britain. I can philosophize about that as much as you can, which is hard to estimate. The question is, of course, how it will end up in the UK Government, but also how a possible agreement will eventually be reached in Parliament. In such a negotiation, I think it is ultimately a responsibility of the British Prime Minister and her team to decide on this. We should not try to make them happy against their will as regards the internal political situation. That's up to them. And in the end, they need to see what they can get back with. That's just where we're at. Then I have a few questions about Customs and the position of the citizens. I have actually answered Mr Asscher's question by implication. I do not believe that anyone is humiliating the British, not that Mr Asscher said that, by the way, but he said: you must be careful that it does not seem like a punishment exercise. I really believe that everyone is trying to reach an orderly agreement. Then I also have the question, which I will answer in this way, after an interrupting how the Netherlands prepares itself if there is no agreement. I do that because I thought Mrs Leijten was getting started. But if you don't, I'm gonna keep talking. I can also finish the point; although, even, I could only for a moment... Maybe three short questions, so I named them. The first one is about Customs. There is the situation that at the end of March we have 300 customs officers available for extra use. That's in a build-up phase, because in the end we're supposed to have 928 FTEs. They're well trained. 300 will be ready by the end of March. This is sufficient to cope with the first consequences of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union. Customs then operates risk-oriented and will, of course, also have to make choices in enforcement and deploy staff at the greatest risks. With this number of new customs officers, the shift in the current workforce and temporary reprioritisation of tasks, customs will have to be able to cope with the first consequences of this withdrawal. The second question was about the uncertainty for citizens, a question from Mr Verhoeven. For this, of course, it is terrible that there is still no clarity for the more than 4 million citizens who are in uncertainty either in the UK or in the EU-27. But I cannot remove it, because the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement contain one comprehensive package. So you cannot offer guarantees here through unilateral declarations. That simply cannot be done. Thus, for the sake of citizens' legal certainty, it is important that reciprocal, legally binding agreements are made with the UK, with appropriate safeguards for compliance. That focus must therefore really be placed on bringing the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement to a successful conclusion, so that these rights for citizens are also secured. Finally, how is the Netherlands preparing for a no-deal scenario? Last week, the Foreign Minister sent a comprehensive letter to the Chamber on how the Netherlands is preparing for a no-deal scenario. Maybe I can refer to that letter, including the central coordination unit. Finally, on the subject of customs, there was a question from Mr Bishop about decentralised control posts. What Mr Bishop is referring to, of course, is already the case. Veterinary and phytosanitary inspections are already being carried out on a decentralised basis at export. This will of course not be different in the context of the Brexit. We need to look closely at how we are also targeting customs capacity in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr President, I know that Mr Omtzigt and probably Mr Van Rooijen have specific questions about customs. Let's do that first, then I'll go into how we deal with the British for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u4	You've been standing there for such a long time, so I thought I'd give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u5	I know that you are talking about order, and I also accept that you are going to have a block finished, but for the debate to take place, I think it would be better if you completed the Customs procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u6	Really? Thank you for the tip. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister says that those 300 customs officers who are there at the end of March are enough to cope with the initial consequences of the withdrawal. But the question was another one. If there is to be a hard Brexit, so if things go wrong, there will be no exit agreement and Britain will crash out of the EU on 29 March, will we have enough customs capacity with these 300 customs officers to stop the Dutch trade from being completely out of control? 'Cause we thought there'd be 1,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u8	I think I know the answer, but I want to be sure. I do not see a clear response from the administration, so I will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u9	Then I'll wait for the reaction. I had a question in that connection, but it will be answered by itself, I suppose. My other question is about the citizens. As I said before, we were visiting England on Monday to talk about the Brexit. We spoke there with Dutch people who live in the United Kingdom. We also spoke with a delegation of three ladies. One of them said: I don't work in that country, I didn't marry an Englishman; I want to stay in England, but then I have to take English nationality and lose Dutch nationality and I don't want to. In fact, it is calling for a relaxation of the double nationality regime. I can imagine that the Prime Minister will not be able to respond to this now, but I would like to do so in the second term, because it was a strong signal. It scared the hell out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u10	There are no plans in the Netherlands to change anything about Dutch nationality legislation. The main rule is that one person has one nationality, everyone knows that. One has to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u11	May I ask the Prime Minister to return to it in a more detailed and documented manner in the second term, rather than simply wipe it off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u12	No, that's just standing legislation. We're not gonna change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u13	But there's a Brexit now. This is a new fact, and you have to look at whether the current legislation is still adequate from a human point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u14	This regulation is not aimed at the UK. Those regulations are aimed at the Dutch Federation Act. There have been developments in 203 other countries every day, and we are not always going to change the law on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u15	We have citizens in uncertainty, we have uncertainty across the border, there may not be a hard Brexit but just no deal. In that case, aircraft from the United Kingdom cannot even fly over Europe. Is there room within the European Council and is the Minister prepared to start the debate on the indivisibleity of the internal market? Individability means taking the movement of capital, goods, services and persons as one. Could we also talk about parts, so that the United Kingdom should be allowed to deal with certain goods in Europe? Or is this indivisibleness of the internal market really so harsh that it can no longer be affected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u16	You can't say that in black and white. This is in itself an important piece of learning by the European Union, for the reason that Mr Mulder mentioned. If you deal with this precious property carelessly, the Netherlands has a problem with 65 million British people, but also with the trade with 420 million people who remain in the European Union. The Netherlands is the third largest exporter in the world and 70% of that trade is within the European Union. So that internal market brings the Netherlands a lot. We must be careful not to deal with this carelessly. Then you have to look very carefully at what the British are proposing. What, for example, do they want to keep access for goods? That's what you have to talk about. This is now being done: what exactly do you want? How, for example, does the purchase of an elevator or escalator relate to the fact that 50% of its purchase consists of a service, namely maintenance? It's very complicated to get out of there. Another question: if you say that you remain in the internal market of goods, what does that mean for all the horizontal agreements that Europe has made on, for example, consumer safety, product quality and animal welfare? It would also mean access to the internal market for agricultural products. Are you prepared to comply and if so, are you prepared to comply with the new legislation that is coming? That whole conversation has to take place. If Mrs Leijten puts the pin on my nose, my answer is: yes, that is holy and indivisible. But that's not gonna get us anywhere. Then you have to look at what the British want and see if that fits in. I see a tendency for everyone in Europe to say: let us have this conversation in substance, but keep in mind that if we let go of the coherence of these different freedoms, we will do irreparable damage again. So that is a very precarious balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u17	I didn't say you should be careless with that internal market. I also hope that is not what the Prime Minister meant in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u18	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u19	In an opinion article, Mr Barnier, the negotiator on behalf of the European Union, states that we want to do everything with the British, to be good friends, but the indivisibleness of the internal market, everything or nothing, is the hard foundation on which everything rests. But I hear the Prime Minister say here: we are going to take a serious look at the British proposal, see what discussions are coming back, and perhaps they will have to accept Europe's laws in that commodity market. In fact, the Prime Minister is saying that we are already moving about this indivisibleity, because we really want to take a serious look at the proposal that has now been made on access to the goods market. Am I translating that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u20	No, I'm not saying that. Moreover, I understood Mrs Leijten well that she is not here in favour of damaging the internal market. I understand that very well. We don't want any of that. That in response to your first part. On the second part, the answer is: no, you cannot draw that conclusion. The question must be whether what the British want is to be integrated into the concept of the indivisibleity of the internal market. That's what you have to talk about. It's complicated. And when I look at what the British want in terms of customs and goods, I'm not very optimistic about that. But I think that you should have that conversation and then look at what that means for cohesion in the internal market, for the horizontal agreements you make on matters such as quality, consumer information, agricultural information, animal welfare and so on. You also have to see what that means for the future. This also depends on the importance of solving the third issue of governance and the role of the Court in Luxembourg. So that's really another complicated triangle. If the question is asked whether Europe is prepared to let go of the cohesion of the four freedoms, the answer is no. Because then you might as well give up everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u21	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u22	But if the question is whether we should look at whether the British proposals can be incorporated into that doctrine of indivisibleity, then I think you should make serious efforts to do so. But am I very optimistic about that? No, not the way it is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u23	Then I suggest you move on. The Prime Minister has just begun, Mrs. Leijten, so you will have the opportunity to interrupt. We have about five subjects that are all coming up. Prime Minister, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u24	I have had double-checked whether the answer on Customs is also valid in the scenario of a hard Brexit. The answer is yes. Customs expect to be sufficiently prepared for a hard Brexit with the expected numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u25	Were you ready? I thought you were...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u26	I'm done with the Brexit. But this was another answer that was open to an interruption that Mr Omtzigt placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u27	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u28	This means that 300 customs officers will be extra enough, if a hard Brexit breaks out on 29 March, to avoid chaotic conditions in the port of Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u29	Then we're gonna avoid chaotic situations, but I've given you a much longer answer. I said: then we trained 300 of some of them that should eventually become 928. They are therefore part of a larger number. I have also said that this will mean that priorities will eventually have to be set in the port, that risk-oriented work will have to be done, that choices will have to be made in enforcement, that staff will be deployed at the greatest risks and that this will enable us to cope with the first consequences, including of a hard Brexit, through a shift in the current workforce and temporary reprioritisation of tasks. So with all those surrounding sentences. So I did not say here: with 300 it will be a problem-free course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u30	The last thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't ask for the last one either. A hard Brexit is nowhere a problem-free course, so I'm not going to see if a truck gets stuck somewhere. I also understand that there is being reprioritised, but I hear the Prime Minister saying here: by reprioritising with a number of rather substantial measures, the port of Rotterdam is not stuck at a hard Brexit in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u33	So it is, but with all points, including risk-oriented work, the shift in the workforce and the reprioritisation indeed. It's temporary, because we're building up on that 928. That's gonna be one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u34	Following the Prime Minister's reply, I can check exactly what the Director responsible for this project for Customs said last week. My memory, and perhaps Mr Omtzigt's, is that in the case of a no-brexit, of no-deal, there are almost 1,000 available and that the matter can be dealt with properly. I'll try to check that myself, but that's the memory I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u35	I must tell you, of course, that I am trying to serve the Chamber as well as possible. I am not working on the subject of Customs all day, but the information I get is that 300 are ready and that it is being built up to 928. In the meantime, the preconditions for reprioritisation and risk-oriented work apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u36	The next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second major theme. That is, of course, migration. On this point, we must note that the analysis made by Mr Omtzig, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Asscher and many others in the first term of the Chamber is correct, namely that the conclusions of June have hardly been implemented. Unfortunately, there is not much news under the sun in the area of migration. There's really gonna be a lot of work to be done. Last week I was in Luxembourg with the Benelux colleagues. That's what I talked to Emmanuel Macron of France about. I am not going to repeat all the elements in Africa and in Europe again and what about redistribution. However, I will answer the specific questions. Anyway, this summer an ad hoc system seems to be being developed in the sense that if a ship is not allowed to go to an Italian port, we will be asking in Europe who the refugees want to take in. That's the risk. The Netherlands doesn't want that. We have said that we are no longer cooperating in this, because the inclusion of refugees from ships that are not first docked in a port of first destination often leads to Italy, sometimes Malta and sometimes Spain, but mostly Italy is leading to a completely new business model for those smugglers and to those dangerous crossing. So what is to be done? That is what we discussed here before the summer, of course. We're gonna talk about that next week. Turkey-like agreements with African countries, including deep in Africa, need to be worked on. It is not that nothing has happened at all, but it is all much slower than, of course, desirable. Asked is what a hotspot is in relation to such a controlled center, such a closed centre, as stated in the June conclusions. Those two are, to say the least, comparable. We also support that concept. The idea behind these controlled centres is what we ultimately want, namely that border procedures should take place, that asylum applications should be processed quickly and safely, and that there should be a distinction between irregular migrants and those in need of international protection. The idea is also that it is very important that this happens quickly, so that you can tell us who needs to go back then hopefully in the meantime we have those agreements with African countries and who can stay. Moreover, we wonder how we can ensure that this pressure is not only applied to Italy and Spain. This brings us, of course, to the third theme: solidarity within Europe. How do you prevent countries such as the Netherlands, Sweden or Germany from experiencing all the migratory pressures and how do you ensure that Eastern Europe also accepts its responsibility? This brings me to the issue of the integrated asylum package in Europe, which is being discussed. That is the third pillar under all the discussions besides what we do in Africa and what we do after arriving in Europe. Negotiations on the common European asylum system have been tough. As you know, it is the seven legislative proposals that have been on the table for a long time. At the moment you can see that there is still no Council position on two proposals. So you cannot blame the European Parliament; this is really a matter that is stuck in the Council. This is mainly about the Dublin Regulation. It is stuck because there are very different views on the redistribution mechanism. It's a well-known fact. The Netherlands sees a compulsory redistribution mechanism as an essential element in crisis situations such as in 2015 and 2016, in order to prevent pressure from being put on only a few countries. Mr President, may I perhaps briefly conclude the issue of migration and then answer the questions? Will you allow it? A few related questions are still open. Mr Van Ojik said that the number of deaths in the Mediterranean is not falling; how is that possible? Fortunately, you can see that the absolute number of deaths in the Mediterranean has declined significantly this year compared to last year. This is demonstrated by the reports of the IOM and UNHCR. Anyway, let's not discuss numbers here, because every dead person is one too many; we all agree on that. As long as there are still deaths in the cynical business model that is being exploited there, we need to do better and we really need this and-and-and-approach. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. Fortunately, a few things have worked out in Europe. Of course, we have the EU mission Sophia against smugglers, the evacuations from Libya with the help of the UNHCR, and the assisted voluntary return together with the IOM. In the case of a few countries, this has at least led to an increase in the number of migrants returning from Niger and Libya to their country of origin. That's about economic migrants who don't stand a chance of asylum here. Something's happening. Mr Bishop's question in that context was: where is this responsibility? It lies with the Member States, but there is, of course, also a European agreement in the context of the Return Directive on improving return procedures. In the same context, we also asked how we could speed up the procedures. That discussion was, of course, also held here yesterday in the context of the debate on all the events in recent weeks concerning the two children who were allowed to stay this weekend. That was a whole debate yesterday. It has also been said that it should not take eight to ten years for a final expulsion after eight or nine legal proceedings. This is largely a matter for the Netherlands. That's what Harber's research is doing. But to all those who notice that, I say: there is, of course, a European component, which we can do there to speed things up. Then, of course, we have been asked about the situation in Greece. I can say that, of course, Greece itself is in the lead, and that is what they want as a proud, sovereign country about the way in which they regulate this, and that the Netherlands offers to help over and over again. For example, a question was asked about IND'ers. In recent years, we have ensured the broadcasting and constant occupation of IND and other experts in Greece on a rotational basis. We have made a large contribution, quite significantly above our fair share, just on the same basis that it is terrible how things are; you know that when you see the images. The embassy is asking about the reports of suicide attempts. I don't have confirmation of that yet, but the embassy is asking for it. Mr. Chairman. I guess I've answered most of the questions about migration. Mr Asscher asked another question about the missing 3.45 billion for regional plans under the United Nations Regional Response Plan. UNHCR has called for humanitarian needs to be addressed in the region. It is indeed a figure of that magnitude. That is a real priority for the Netherlands. We have committed 200 million for Jordan over the next four years. The same amount goes to Lebanon. Since 2011, the European Union has contributed more than 1 billion to refugees in Jordan alone. The Netherlands will continue its efforts within the EU and within the UN to ensure that humanitarian needs in the region are met. Of course, this can also be seen in a broader context. It is not the case that the Netherlands and the EU are the only donors. We are also trying to put pressure on countries in the region itself, including some very wealthy countries, to contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. I'll sum up. There has been little progress on migration since the European Council. A few things have happened, but far too little. So we will really have to talk about what we can do about it on Thursday. I myself am trying to promote that we should see whether we can take a much more active role in making agreements with African countries from the European Council, as European Council members, like the Netherlands and Germany did with Turkey in 2016. But that too is not successful to this day; I also say that honestly. If I rebuke it all the way back to the essence, then I think it plays along with the fact that the numbers at the moment are not the size of a few years ago. That is why I fear that the urgency on the political agenda is felt very much here, and also in Sweden and Germany and, of course, in Greece and Italy, but that it is not sufficiently felt in the European Council. I therefore see it as my job to do my best to boost that urgency. But I also tell you that it has not been sufficiently achieved at the moment. You can tell by the progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u38	I thank the Prime Minister for the state of play. It is not uplifting, especially when you look at the situation that is still on the Mediterranean and Greek islands, the hotspots. I understand that, despite the different names, there is no difference between that structural shelter and the hotspots. Because the hotspots are structural shelters. But with the other colleagues I see that the situation on the hotspots is not improving and we are going to have another winter. Now the Prime Minister says: we pay Greece, it is Greece's responsibility first and they want it no different either. But why is it not made clear why the procedure is failing? Why isn't the procedure accelerated? People just sit there in mud for a year and a half, in little tents in bad conditions. This is an embarrassment. It is shameful for the European Union as a community of values. Why can't the Council ask for an independent investigation to see how we can speed up that procedure there? I understand that we depend on judges in Greece. I understand all that. But why can't we increase that pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u39	I would like to make it clear to the public whether there would be a title for this. I wouldn't argue with that at all. But I also want to prevent it from being seen as a far-reaching intervention in the sovereignty of the Greek Republic. I am therefore going to be advised by the public on what can or cannot be done there and what the bandwidth is. Because I do feel the same urgency. It's awfully annoying when you see what happens. Then you think: at least accept our help and speed up asylum procedures. However, I can say that the European Commission is monitoring the situation very closely and that it is supported by the European Asylum Support Office EASO, by the Member States and, of course, by UNHCR. NGOs are also active. The Netherlands is also in close contact with the Greek authorities. We are constantly prepared to supply experts and equipment, and may do so occasionally, including financial resources. Germany and a few other countries are also very actively involved. But the fact remains that, in every debate on migration, we come here to talk about the harrowing conditions that exist there. So I would like to take a moment to advise myself on the idea that I could ask Europeans again to investigate it, to know if it is viable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u40	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for at least being prepared to see whether there can be an inventory of exactly where the bottlenecks are and what we should discuss with Greece. He therefore feels the same urgency as a large part of the Chamber. We shouldn't take responsibility. We're not from the Christian Union at all. But we do want to see that something is finally being done with our money. Perhaps it is necessary to exert pressure and say once that we are holding a payment until Greece takes those next steps. Look at all the possibilities to increase that pressure. Because whether these 10,000 new Frontex employees are going to solve the situation... Let's start with this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u41	I will come to those 10,000 employees separately in a moment, because there is a lot to be said about that. But I also agree with what Mr Voordewind said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u42	It is good that the Prime Minister has just said that he is prepared to look again at what can happen in Greece. Because I believe that no one disputes that we are doing our best and that we are offering everything. But the fact is that the situation is only getting worse. That is because there are simply 50 to 60 people added every day. Fortunately, that is much less than at the height of the crisis, much less, but there are still 50 to 60 every day. So I'm very curious to hear what might happen. I had asked the Prime Minister something in the context of the continuing death rate in the Mediterranean. We're not gonna argue whether it's more or less. There has been a Dutch rescue ship chained to Malta for more than two months. Malta says that we are under pressure from the European countries to leave it on the chain. The Netherlands says: Malta must release that ship. It is a ship designed to save people who are at risk of drowning in the Mediterranean. I have just asked the Prime Minister if he is prepared to look at it again next week, when he sees his colleagues, to see whether such a situation should continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u43	About that particular case of Sea-Watch, I say the following. The Maltese authorities did not allow the ship to leave the port and asked the Netherlands about the certification of the ship in relation to its use. We've answered all those questions by now. We will also keep in touch with Malta about the follow-up. It's now with the Maltese judge. We must await that outcome. The situation with such ships is that, within the limits of the law of the sea, ships have the task of saving drownings and of being able to carry out that task. There are clear rules for this. Designations of responsible authorities of coastal States should be followed and implemented. And, of course, it is not possible to participate in, for example, criminal activities of smugglers. That's all to be seen. That case is now before the Maltese courts. We'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u44	It is very good that the Netherlands keeps in touch. The ship sails under the Dutch flag. The Netherlands is the flag State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u45	Well, there's a discussion about that. A lot of discussion. Anyway, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u46	Well, it is or it isn't. Right? That ship's been chained up for over two months. I can assume that we now know whether the ship is flying the Dutch flag or not. That's where it starts, I think. If that is the case, I would ask the Prime Minister to clarify this quickly, if that clarity is still not there after two months, then I can assume that the Netherlands will take up the law in Malta and ask Malta to clarify as soon as possible why the ship is on the chain. But I understand that we must first determine whether it is flying the Dutch flag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u47	No, no, no. No, that's not the point. It's all about me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u48	Well, I do. If it isn't, then there's another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's not my point. My point is another. We have answered all the questions raised by the Maltese authorities. So there's clarity. It's just the judge now. We will really have to wait for that outcome. And we'll be in touch with Malta about the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u50	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u51	Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it is taking a very long time and that it is undesirable that a ship sailing on the Mediterranean to rescue people has been on the chain for more than two months without us knowing at this point whether there is a legal basis for the detention of that ship? Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u52	That's why it's the Maltese judge. They're responsible for it now. That's how it works. Ships have all the instructions to follow from the states in the area they're working on. Apparently, Malta saw reason to chain the ship. The Netherlands has answered all relevant questions in this dossier. It is really up to Malta and, above all, to the judge there to give a ruling on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u53	I asked the Prime Minister a question. That whole debate about how we deal with people who come here is pretty stuck. We're talking about refugees who can get residence and protection status, and we're talking about people looking for work, everyone says they can't all come. But the point is that you will find that quickly, otherwise we will have the wretched conditions that we are seeing now, and preferably that you will bring the procedures to the people rather than the other way around. I specifically asked the Prime Minister whether he would like to propose in Salzburg to investigate, and really strengthen, whether the procedure to see if you have protection status in the EU could be accelerated as much as possible, for example to seven days. I have understood from people who have been studying for years that this must be possible, that within seven days you must be able to determine whether or not you have a protection status in Europe. That could also reduce the pressure tremendously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u54	I'm not so expert that I can say if I can. I know that yesterday, in the debate in the Chamber, we discussed how to avoid unnecessary delays in the application of all international agreements, such as the Refugee Convention, both throughout the Dutch procedure and internationally, in European rules. That's the investigation Harbers announced. He does. And I think this question should be taken into account. I am not aware that something is possible in Europe that can suddenly be said to last seven days. If Mrs Leijten has any indication of this, I would like to know. It may not be official, but it is new to me personally. Then I'm gonna study on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u55	My colleague in the European Parliament, Dennis de Jong, I believe, made this proposal in 2013 or 2014. Even between him and Commissioner Timmermans, there was a correspondence. It is therefore not about asylum status, but about protection status. That may make it even more technical, but apart from the technique, my question was whether the Prime Minister is prepared to put this on the agenda throughout the discussion we have and to ask the other Member States to support us in developing and figuring it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u56	Not a very concrete proposal from the SP that is coming to me now and that I do not know. But what we are doing, in my view, is agreeing on this and we want to speed up all procedures in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world. Harbers records that; it must be involved. I think we all want there to be no reason... At all these nodes of the entire logistics around protecting people who are on the run in Italy or Spain, when it comes to the initial assessment, and then at the arrival in the Netherlands, in Ter Apel or wherever people are arriving, and when establishing or wrongly asked for protection, we want to accelerate in order to avoid what we have experienced here recently, but also in so many other places in Europe. Let us agree to include Mrs Leijten's suggestion. All of that has to be done quickly. We are not going to take long, but I am not going to make one proposal in isolation in a whole range of discussions next week, which I am hearing for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u57	Good. Finally, Mrs Leijten, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u58	The Prime Minister has in mind what happened to the two children this weekend. I get that. I also understand that the Secretary of State is going to look at acceleration in that area. I believe that this is also the strong wish of everyone in this Chamber and of the whole of the Netherlands. In particular, I asked whether the assessment of the people who are coming to Europe could go to seven days. Italy is running into it, Greece is running into it, and Spain is running into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u59	That's part of Harbers' investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u60	I will try to say very briefly why I asked. It's about border guards. It's about sending people back. It's all about stuff like that. I believe that this kind of European summit is far too little about how we are going to ensure that we have a good, rapid procedure that can pass the test of international treaties and which relieves the pressure on Member States receiving these migrants or refugees, and thus alleviates the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u61	We just talked about Greece. You can see how complicated it is already to speed things up in the Greek situation. I am not saying that Mrs Leijten is wrong. I think it's good to get this involved. Harbers' research is not only about the Netherlands, but also about what needs to be done internationally to prevent you from getting to this kind of numbers. If there is a plan, I say to the SP, to do it in seven days, and in certain cases European, then I say 'I'm all for it', but then we really need to study it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u62	I'll make sure you get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u63	I'd love to. You're gonna get it to me, and I'm gonna get it to Harbers. And then we're gonna include that in that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u64	I remember that we had here before the summer migration summit after migration summit and debate after debate. Much has been said and a lot of agreements have been made and proposals have all been thrown into the world. But now it turns out that once again nothing has been done in the migration dossier. So that shows that we should not wait for the European Union, but simply close our own borders. But that aside. I have a question, because one thing from the European Commission came out in the summer about the evacuation arrangements and the controlled centres in the European Union, and a small press release has come out. It talks about launching a pilot project as soon as possible. The ambassadors would discuss this with each other the following day in order to set up a draft regulation for this purpose. I was actually wondering what happened to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u65	That is a very specific question and I want to answer your specific questions flawlessly. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u66	In the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of Rule 7 and yesterday's vote in the European Parliament. I note that there is a great deal of concern here in the Chamber about the image emerging from Sargentini's report on democracy and the rule of law in Hungary. As a cabinet, we share this concern about the stigmatising effects of the NGO legislation, the so-called Soros package, which concerns their important and legitimate work, the free press in Hungary. This year, the Netherlands addressed Hungary both bilaterally and at European level to developments leading to these concerns. We will continue to do so. At the end of August, Minister Blok raised concerns in a discussion with his Hungarian colleague and margin of informal Gymnich consultation. Minister Kaag, Sigrid Kaag, did so earlier in February and on the margins of the Human Rights Council in Geneva. The Dutch human rights ambassador raised Dutch concerns extensively in a discussion with the Hungarian authorities. Now, after yesterday, of course, the decision on Article 7 (1) has been taken by the European Parliament. That provides for a three-stage missile. Step one is that we now have to look at the exact situation, so listen and hear again. A recommendation should then be made, if necessary, and conclusions drawn thereafter. Mr. Chairman. What I want to avoid, I say very politically, is that what I simply do not think is sensible is that we are going to go through that procedure and today decide that by definition there should be a four-fifth majority that will draw that conclusion in line with the outcome that we all fear. Because step one is that there should be a response from Hungary, so that they should commit, that there should then be a recommendation, and then those conclusions. In order for there to be no misunderstanding, I would have liked to have expressed politically what would happen if those first two steps were to be taken, and they were simply part of the process decided upon, which would prove that Hungary does not have a good story on these points. I'm afraid that's true, or we're gonna make the miracle happen that there's gonna be a good story and they're gonna change their business. But if that does not happen, the Netherlands will of course ensure that the Netherlands is part of those four fifths. There's no discussion about that. But I also understand a little from the words of some of the speakers that they want to conclude today: the Netherlands is in those four fifths. Yes, if steps one and two show that Hungary does not change its plans and does not improve its behaviour, then we will be part of those four fifths. But we can't decide that today. Because the procedure provides for the first two steps to be taken. So we can now argue very much about whether you should decide now, or whether you should do steps one and two first. We can also agree that the situation is very worrying and that if it does not improve, the Netherlands is simply part of the four-fifths that see, as it literally says, 'there is a great danger of violating the values of the Union'. The European Council may then decide unanimously that there is a serious and persistent violation of Article 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u68	Were you done with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u69	Yeah, this was about Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u70	I expect that next week, when the Prime Minister is at the informal Council, he will have to give his opinion, including to his colleagues, on whether we are sitting in the four-fifths, as he called it, or in the one-fifths. Is that what he thinks, or what he doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u71	No, because it's exactly in the rules. Article 7 (1) has now been formally triggered. Now the Presidency has to make a proposal for discussion in the Council. That procedure is laid down in the Treaty. There's nothing we can do about that anymore, that's for sure. This means that there must be a hearing with Hungary, which hopefully leads to a dialogue leading to results. I am saying here that if these hearings do not produce any results and these dialogues do not come or produce any results, the Netherlands will of course be part of the four-fifths that see in that scenario that there is a serious risk of violating the values of the Union. But today's decision to do so is contrary to the procedure initiated yesterday by the European Parliament. So we are going to do something that is not in accordance with the procedure. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u73	We can argue about that today. We can also say: we agree that "if not," we are part of the four fifths. But we have to give "if" a chance, because that's the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u74	I understand the procedural approach, which I do not call procedural in this case because I do not think it is sufficiently substantial in substance. I think the Prime Minister is making it clear where he stands when it turns out that... I thank him for that; I think that is very important. At least we can discuss this as a Chamber: what do we think if it turns out that Hungary doesn't have a good story? I'd like to know what's going on with the Prime Minister. He sketches this very clinically: this is the procedure; just stick to it, because then you end up with the best story and then you also have a sensible position in the longer term. That is always a bit of the Prime Minister's attitude, but the dynamic is, of course, that other countries may already be making a firmer statement. Does the Prime Minister see the opportunity to do so? How does he relate to that? Because I do think it is important that the Netherlands is not the very last one in a list that says at some point: considering the situation, I think there is a need for solidity at the political level. Can he shed a little light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u75	This parliament meets in public, is just my first answer. What I just said will undoubtedly also... Look, my words are always followed internationally, of course! But if that is not the case on a very exceptional occasion, then I can of course answer Mr Verhoeven's question in the affirmative. Should that question be asked internationally, I will say: "Listen, we are very worried about Hungary. We understand everything about that resolution. We are now formally out of the question. Formally there is now hearing again and again and that leads to a recommendation. But I can tell you, Mr. Journalist of some international newspaper, that if that does not lead to a change in behavior, we will be part of those four fifths."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u76	But I was wondering what the game would be like if there were other countries, other leaders who, in the Prime Minister's meeting with his political antenna and his very broad experience in Europe, made a movement that was somewhat more proactive than the formal approach of the Prime Minister. What position do we take? If the force field is set in motion, what does the Netherlands do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u77	But that would be weird, wouldn't it? The resolution was adopted yesterday. The triggering of Article 7 (1) must now be done. If there are countries that are buzzing over each other saying, "Well, let them hear and hear and make recommendations; we now formally decide that the four fifths are being triggered," there is no legal basis for that. Then Hungary has a fantastic day. I don't think that's a good idea. But if countries show that they don't expect much from those two steps, but think "let's do it formally, but if nothing comes out then we're part of the four-fifths," I'll tell you that the Netherlands says exactly the same thing. I think there can be no misunderstanding about that. But if you don't do this properly, you're gonna give the government in Budapest another gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to analyze Juncker's speech in all facets. I thought there were some really good things in there. He had a good story about the importance of multilateralism, values, trade, the importance of the single market package leading quickly to conclusions, the capital market union and the banking union. I thought it was all good lyrics, so I liked a lot of the speech made by the President of the Commission yesterday. It was a long speech, so there are always things you're less excited about. I will take two out, which have just emerged from the debate; let me confine myself to that. The first point is Frontex. In itself, Juncker agrees that external border surveillance is of great importance, also as part of the en-and-approach. We are also in favour of a strong border and coastguard, as we have always said, formed by the Member States, and a joint border and coastguard agency. Yes, that border and coast guard must have sufficient operational capacity to ensure that border controls are properly carried out. However, Member States are primarily responsible for this. If there are gaps and this directly affects the management of migratory flows, then the European Border and Coast Guard must be able to act. In doing so, Frontex's border guards are both a means and an important means. Juncker's right about that. To this end, it is necessary for Member States to have sufficient border guards in place to contribute to Frontex operations. Given the increase in the number of travellers and challenges with illegal migration and border security, this capacity has come under pressure in several Member States. There is a very precise division of roles between the Agency and the responsibility of Member States. In this respect, the actual observation is that there are gaps at the moment. We are going to study the proposals that the Commission has yet to do, because there is nothing yet, including the financial implications. The number of 10,000 is a bit wild and also costs a lot of money. We will look at the texts with great interest. But in itself, strong external border surveillance has always been part of our European migration policy. I just agree with Juncker on that. Another issue is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Netherlands is part of that now, but we have also said that this must be properly started and work on the basis of the original mandate. I want to try to fly it from its contents. We can say again: the EPPO is in danger of getting a job, and we should not, because we agreed that it should confine itself to the tasks it now has. But it is very interesting that our position is good from the point of view of content. That helps. I'm gonna help you, or at least myself. If you are against it, you could be blamed for the fact that the fight against terrorism is extremely important and that this instrument can do so, but that you are against it because of the earlier decision that the EPPO should confine itself to the initial tasks. My suggestion is therefore to fly it from its content. Well, then I think you're gonna have to make a few observations. The fight against terrorism is a top priority. We are all working on this, in the Netherlands and throughout Europe, with attention, people and resources. And yes, international cooperation is crucial. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, this cooperation is most effective and necessary when it comes to preventing radicalisation and protecting citizens. We need to do more about that. This requires the improved exchange of information between Member States, but also between European agencies, such as Europol and Eurojust, with databases and so-called interoperability. I believe that these are matters on which we agree. The final piece is then the prosecution of terrorist suspects. This is really a task for the Member States. From the point of view of content, I have very serious doubts as to whether it is wise to impose this burden on the EPPO. I have an additional argument. Terrorism isn't on its own. It is almost always interwoven with criminal activities and is often hidden in local communities. This requires a broad approach, with a good national connection and a priority in that area with the national public prosecutors. All of this is, therefore, aside from the fact that we in Europe have to be a little careful that when we start something with a task package, someone immediately comes up with someone who says: I'm gonna get rid of it; they can also solve that problem, and here's something else. From the point of view of content, I think that there is a great deal to be done to look very critically at collective proposals on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u80	I was a little concerned with that "if you look at it from the point of view of content," because I think everyone is doing this: should you give this task to the European Public Prosecutor's Office or was it more invested at Member State level and, if so, why? That will result in a sentence in your text. The defence of the Prime Minister why it doesn't make any sense to give that European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is not even operable, a new task, I thought was a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u81	I couldn't quite understand it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u82	A very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u83	That's what's in the Acts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yes, you can put it in your pocket. There will be other debates next week, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u85	But pass this on to your chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u86	He'll follow everything. What I would like to ask you to do is to repeat it at the European summit later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u87	Yeah, if this is the case. I don't know if this is on Thursday. It could be, because we'll talk about safety, and then maybe it'll come up. The Commission proposal appeared yesterday, I think. So we have to study that very carefully. But this will be my reasoning and also the reasoning that Ferd Grapperhaus uses in his European contacts, in the sense of: boys, be careful that we are not doing something here that makes no sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr. Grapperhaus is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yes, the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u90	That "beware" is really fine with me and I think the reasoning about how we look at it from the content is also perfect. But that should also result in: discussion closed, Mr Juncker, there's the trash can. You may say that in a different way, because in it everyone chooses his own words, but is that the message?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u91	That's not what we're all about on our own, is it? That is a debate in Europe. We're not gonna make that decision on our own, are we? That would be crazy. Besides, it's kind of a stop to thinking and I'm not for that. I did not want to give the impression here for a second that Mrs Leijten does not fly everything from the content. Only, I did it exceptionally, and that's why I thought it was such a special moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u92	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u93	Love seems to come from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u94	I see it. It'll make you all red.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u95	I asked in my text if the Prime Minister is prepared to resist. Of course, I always choose my words as sharply as possible. You know me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u96	Don't get me started!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u97	The explanation given by the Prime Minister on why you should not give this task to the European Public Prosecutor's Office from the point of view of its content should result in a friendly, well-worded no at the summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u98	We do not want them as they are now. That's right. Because of the whole content, we have these objections to it. I think this was my answer to Juncker's speech, which I, again, liked on a lot of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u99	I have a very short question. Does Prime Minister Rutte's objection to extending the EPPO's mission package on timeliness or simply not wanting us to extend the EPPO's mission package to include terrorism? That is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u100	From the point of view of substance, I see no reason to do so, because the problems of terrorism that need to be tackled at European level are much more common in other areas. I just mentioned them. Then it is about preventing radicalisation and protecting citizens. There you really have European added value of cooperation. That also happens in every possible way. This is then about the prosecution. Also because of the close connection in prosecution with what is happening in the crime that is largely embedded or hidden in the local community, this is not obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u101	So it is not the argument that it is not now time to have that discussion. That is the argument that I read in the cabinet's commitment to the summit, so it is not timely to have a discussion about it now because it has not even been set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u102	I do not quite have that cabinet response in all its finesses, but I think both are true, that from the point of view of content it would not be a logical extension of the task package and that there is also an ample argument, namely that this whole EOM hardly exists yet. Then there are a few loose questions. How informal are these meetings? This is clearly laid down in the Treaty, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. An informal European Council cannot take decisions or adopt conclusions. On Selmayr, the Secretary-General of the European Commission, an Ombudsman's report is addressed to the Commission. It is now up to the Commission to respond to that report. We stressed the importance of transparency in appointment procedures in the General Affairs Council in March. The European Parliament has also made this appeal. In addition, the European Parliament has examined the appointment of Martin Selmayr and the procedure. They asked the Commission to look at the application procedure, but they also maintained the appointment. The Cabinet notes that the European Parliament has thereby exercised its constitutional control role. We do not intend to act now in the role of Parliament or in the role of the Commission. They have discussed this issue in mutual dialogue and some of it is still ongoing. There is now no role for the European Council or for governments. Then there was the question about the Multiennial Financial Framework, the Multiannual Financial Framework. That is not on the agenda of this European Council. We believe that after the forthcoming General Affairs Council of 18 September, the Austrian Presidency will focus on the preparations for the informal negotiations. Then the question about terrorist content online. Who decides whether content is illegally terrorist and should be removed? We welcome in itself the efforts, including by the European Commission, to set up the structure to counter the spread of online terrorist propaganda. At the same time, of course, we will examine proposals on this point very carefully and then inform the Chamber via a BNC sheet. Furthermore, of course, there is always the sensitive issue of foreign policy, QMV or not. I agree with Juncker that the EU should act as united on the world stage as possible. I would like to point out, for example, the enormous support that we have always experienced in the European Union in relation to MH17, the great consensus that still exists in Europe, not to everyone with equal enthusiasm, as regards the European Union's reactions to the events of Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, but also to so many other examples. At the same time, it is, of course, extremely sensitive to change, especially when it comes to decisions on military deployment. They will always have to be taken unanimously, especially when it comes to the deployment of Dutch military forces in EU missions. Mr Blok now goes on to examine the Commission's proposals. Once again, there can be no discussion about the use of military forces, that is unanimity. Furthermore, I think we really need to talk about whether there is any reason to look again at the decision-making procedures for the wider issue of foreign policy. Then there are a few issues that are not on the agenda. The EDIS or the European Deposit Insurance Scheme EDIS is not on the agenda. This is a matter that you regularly discuss with Mr Hoekstra. There is nothing new, so all the desiderata of the Netherlands Mr Omtzigt has just mentioned a lot of them are without prejudice. So there's nothing new to report. There were also questions from Mr Omtzigt about transparency and Idlib, including those that are not on the agenda of this European Council. The same applies to the risk scenarios around Italy. Mr President, I thought I had answered all the questions. I have two further answers that the Chamber still owed, firstly in the direction of Mr Voordewind, who asked: can you put any further pressure on Greece? I've been given a more detailed overview of what's going on there. Indeed, the Netherlands and the Commission support Greece where we can. The Commission's reports are not only very specific about the situation in Greece, but also about the implementation of the EU-Turkey Declaration. The situation in Greece and the implementation of the declaration on the islands are always highlighted. And recommendations are made every time. So that's what happens. It's a good thing we still have that very sharp. The Commission has also given an additional push by recruiting coordinators to improve the situation on the islands and to ensure that the aid offered is successful. So that's another initiative. We are contributing to this, by the way. I don't think there's much more to do. We can ask the Commission to carry out another investigation, but that is already happening. Then you come to a completely different issue. Should Europe not just say, if it stays so bad, that we are going to take over these reception centres together and remove that responsibility from the Member States? That is a very big step that I would not want to take, but it is an issue on which the debate is taking place. One of the differences between the hotspots and the controlled locations is that the controlled locations do have a heavy European component, while the hotspots were really something of Italy and Greece themselves. So there's a difference. In that context, these talks take place. Returning specifically to Mr Voordewind's question: can you do even more to the Commission by making the situation on the islands transparent? My view now is, also on the basis of the latest information I have received, that everything is happening there and at the same time that the situation remains worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u103	That is the summary in one sentence. Things are happening, but it's still a huge mess in terms of circumstances there. So the question remains: why, for example, could UNHCR not have a greater role? They're over there. Frontex is there too, as is EASO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u105	Why should the UNHCR, an organisation set up to organise this type of reception situation, not be given a greater role? Would the Prime Minister be open to advocating a stronger role for the UNHCR?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u106	That is something Greece must allow. That's all up to Greece. I'll see what their role is and if there's more to do. This is something that Germany and the Netherlands regularly pay attention to questions with the Greeks and say: let us help, let UNHCR help! When it all started in 2015, 2016 we have also said: we are also willing to run a far-reaching centre of this kind for you. But, yes, that asylum procedure is a Greek matter, according to Greek law. We cannot do the higher professions for them either. That scared them back, and I understand that. To say: Germany or the Netherlands take over a piece of such an island and run it for you... I can see why they weren't waiting for that. We wanted to make the point: if you do it yourself, at least accept that we are prepared to provide help. Some of them do. Let's be real about that. Let us also be realistic about the fact that they are facing a huge task, because they are confronted with this phenomenon because of their geographical location on the Aegean Sea. We don't. But having said that, we agree. We will see if the UNHCR can play a greater role and if the Greeks are prepared to do so. I'm gonna check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u107	Very briefly, Mr. Van Ojik, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u108	At the same point, maybe it saves the second term. We are now discussing the preparation of the Prime Minister's participation in the informal European Council. No one disputes that much is already happening, but everyone also knows that, unfortunately, this has not yet led to an improvement in the situation, quite the contrary. Is this not a particularly important subject for the Prime Minister to say: next week, together with my colleagues, together with Greece, together with the European Commission, I would like to see whether we have made sufficient use of all the options available, Mr Voordewind, just mentioned one with the UNHCR, or whether we can do something else? Is this not particularly a subject for such an informal European Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u109	I don't think that's gonna work, because then you're gonna make it very visible, and then the loss of face for the Greeks is huge, if you're gonna do it there. We are trying to help behind the scenes and to point out options in all the contacts that exist. The Greeks are proud, too. They say: 'ho, there is a limit and ultimately it is our own sovereign responsibility'. Also as regards the Greek share in the EU-Turkey Declaration, which is partly based on a bilateral Greek-Turkish treaty. I get that, too. So if we are going to make this very big next week in Salzburg, when we say 'we are going to help collectively now Tsipras', then I do not think his willingness to listen will be great. I think we should do that behind the scenes. We constantly monitor all the options we have, whether that's the IND, the military or other help. Voordewind's suggestion was whether UNHCR could do anything about it. But if we are going to do this very openly, we may have a good feeling about it, but I think the effect would be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u111	I had one more question, Mr President, from Mrs Maeijer. I promised her I'd answer it, and I can answer it now. She was talking about those controlled centers and a pilot project. Now we've really lost each other in a dark forest, because we don't know that press release. But it'll probably be there when she says it, so maybe I can get it from her clerk. I can say that the Netherlands supports the concept as presented by the Commission at the end of July: controlled centres in arrival countries, fast and secure settlement. It is now up to those arrival countries to organise this, with the help of the European Union. This can, of course, be done through a pilot project. That's what that press release was supposed to be about, I understand. Again, we may have missed it. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, this could be the fastest by using existing hotspots and taking the lead by a leading group of Member States. We too are prepared to cooperate in these countries, so to offer our assistance in countries such as Italy, as long as it is in line with the conclusions of the European Council. That's what we're talking about. But her question was specifically about a pilot project; I hope we can get that message from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u112	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u113	Mr. Chairman. I have talked about three major issues and I will come back to all three. When you look at May's plan for the Brexit, you think: that runs against the terms of Barnier, who talks all the time about the indivisibleity of the internal market. But I hear the Prime Minister here saying they're studying it seriously. I would say step in the right direction. No one's waiting for a Brexit without appointments. I would therefore like to say to the Prime Minister: stay cool and do not punish the British. The plan we made in October 2015 on that short seven-day procedure is described in a plan I have here. I'll make sure that's given to the Prime Minister in a moment. It was made by our MEP Dennis de Jong. Then the prime minister's reasons for not having the mechanism that you are setting up an institution are immediately expanding it with new tasks. I thought that was a very good one, but I would also like to ask the Chamber for a ruling and that is why the next motion is coming. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, even before the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM) is operational, proposals are being made to give the EPPO responsibility for counter-terrorism;]] [[noting that detection and prosecution are national competences, surrounded by democratic guarantees;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose extending the mandate of the EPPO with the fight against terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1360]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Little progress on migration, the Prime Minister said. It would be very good if we could get to grips with solidarity in Europe soon after the informal Council, because people are still arriving every day in the meantime. There are still people who make the dangerous crossing across the Mediterranean every day. The Prime Minister has made it clear that he too is deeply concerned about this. Madam President. I have one motion, which is about the situation on the Greek islands. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister. In fact, I can imagine that you are making a trade-off in which you say that if we are going to raise this very publicly at the informal Council, then that might be counterproductive. But I'm still gonna call on the Cabinet to take action. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, despite repeated calls and efforts by the EU, asylum seekers on the Greek islands are still being accommodated in overcrowded camps with low security and inadequate facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to find a common and rapid solution to the degrading reception of asylum seekers in Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I began my speech this morning by saying that we do not really know exactly what the Prime Minister is going to do at that summit. I must say that these concerns are not really taken away when I am asked to issue a press release from the European Commission to the Prime Minister. Anyway, that aside. I've got two motions. The PVV was and is opposed to the participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office and therefore, of course, against extending its remit. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands participates in the European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas, even before the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been properly established, there is talk of extending the scope of the task to terrorism;]] [[noting that this is causing the Netherlands to lose more and more national powers;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to withdraw from the European Public Prosecutor's Office at the earliest opportunity and to express its opposition to the extension of the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr President, I will read my second motion immediately, given the time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on 12 September 2018, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the launch of an Article 7 EU Treaty procedure against Hungary;]] [[Whereas this is an attack on Hungary as a sovereign country;]] [[whereas Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán is doing more on his own than the EU elite combined to protect fundamental values in Europe by stopping illegal immigration and resisting the Islamisation of our continent;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the introduction of an Article 7 procedure against Hungary and to use its veto in the Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1363]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u117	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions in his usual way. Thank you for that. I would also like to come back to two points. First of all, the line that is regularly followed from the EU, with a State of the Union and that sort of thing. As long as I am a spokesperson in the EU field, for so long, I have noticed that every time you are a national parliament, you have to be wary of the need for greater powers at European level, at the expense of the national level. We also published a policy note on this a little over a year ago. We also offered it to the Prime Minister. In that we analysed and also showed how that happens and what happens. It gives a very unpleasant feeling that in this way you will be made to serve the EU rather than serve our country. That's a cry of hearts I'd like to put out. My second comment concerns the Brexit. We share the Prime Minister's line of drawing the same line towards the United Kingdom for as long as possible. However, I would like to stress to the Prime Minister the need to be aware that the interests of the Netherlands and the EU are not necessarily...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u119	... one-on-one keep running parallel and that at some point, also out of well-understood self-interest,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u121	...can sail our own course. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u122	Good. I now turn to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u123	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. In my first term, I expressed my doubts as to whether we are not continuing to drift away from the united Europe, as the Juncker Commission is so keen to see it. When I hear the Prime Minister's comment on Hungary, he also seems to think that this country, like Poland, seems to be increasingly distant from the European Union. Is the Prime Minister not afraid that next year's campaign for the European elections will contribute to further removal of countries and parties? It is sad that I have heard the Prime Minister say that there is not much news under the sun in the area of migration. For the time being, therefore, we are left with negotiations by boat, in which the Netherlands does not want to offer shelter to the refugees on those ships. That's for others to figure out. Isn't that too easy? Does the Prime Minister have any idea how long it can be before action is actually taken at European level? Winter is coming and the risks of crossing the Mediterranean are even greater than they already are. Why does the Prime Minister find the reinforcement of Frontex to 10,000 men "a bit of a wild idea"? Then what number is acceptable? According to him, there are already gaps in border control in the Member States. What is the position of the Netherlands in this respect? Finally, Mr President, customs. The programme director Brexit of Customs, Mr Klunder, just last Monday I thought that after four instalments more than 300 people would be available in March 2019. Now it comes: the last tranche will start in June 2019, the tranche that has to go to almost 1,000...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u125	... It has been said earlier that 930 is needed, I still believe in February. My question is when 930 are actually available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u126	Yes, thank you. Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his comments and his intention and drive to achieve better regulation of migration. I would also like to thank him for his efforts to improve the military situation on the Greek islands. That is why I co-signed the motion, not so much to do so publicly in the European Council, but to encourage the Prime Minister to continue doing so, where he considers it effective. Mr Juncker's plans to terminate the right of veto in the field of foreign policy were heard by the Prime Minister, but I would like to have a little more clarity. The last sentence seemed to keep a bit of a door open to have a conversation about it. Can I hear from the Prime Minister that he does not want to go that way to cancel our right of veto as a Member State? Further support for the line not to extend the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u129	Mr. Chairman. It's a bit of a rough day today, so that's why I'm not filing any motions. But that is also due to the clear answers given by the Prime Minister. I have asked questions on two issues. First of all, on Hungary. I found the Prime Minister's explanation decisive. He is clear about his political position, but he also points out the importance of dealing with the procedure that has just been prescribed by the European Parliament. That's actually just a logical approach, so I thank him for his position. I'd like to ask him another question. I had already tried a bit in my interruption. I do not think we should formally fall behind in procedural terms when it is necessary in the dynamics to show that we are serious. I know they're a little big words, but it's how things end up. Politics is not only handling procedures, but also making it clear to each other where you stand, just at such an informal summit. I just trust the Prime Minister to do that, especially on the basis of his answers. The second. The Prime Minister said that we must wait for the miracle of Hungary. That miracles have not yet come out of the world, proved immediately after when the Prime Minister was very commendable about Juncker's speech. I thought that was a small miracle, because I have only heard the Prime Minister, according to good VVD practice, say bad things about Mr Juncker. That he liked this speech, I thought it was typical to hear. I hope that in this way we will also be able to properly assess the Commission's proposals in terms of content and that it is not always just about the Commission's foreman, who is about to burn down Chamberwide, while the substantive proposals should be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u130	Thank you. I see that Mr Anne Mulder does not need a second term. Then I will go to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr President, I was surprised. I signed a motion with D66, but I don't know where it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u132	Maybe Mrs. Leijten has another one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u133	This does not have to be done in plenary, and I will not, but I can explain it in a moment outside the microphone. But there was a procedural reason to go the sensible way of not moving a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u134	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u135	I, too, have thought this recess about my work and thought: let's not make too many motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u136	Well, that's the way it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u137	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u138	Carry on, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u139	I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. I would like to ask him whether he and his finance minister would like to come back to the risk scenarios when a sovereign debt crisis in Italy is breaking out. That really is one of the great risks that Europe is threatening. It would mean that multiple banks could turn upside down. We all know that a Single Resolution Fund will be of no use to us then, with only a few tens of billions in it. I'm just curious about that. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment that the governmental agreement agreements on transparency remain in force. As far as the Selmayr report is concerned, I would really like to urge the Commission to respond within one month to the European Ombudsman's recommendation. That was actually what I have in common with D66-Mr Verhoeven. Because four times of maladministration is just a lot. If that's what the Ombudswoman says, you're gonna have to do something with that. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks for the commitment that the Rotterdam port will not become chaos because of the Customs at the Brexit. I had another question: 143 people would also be recruited from NVWA, especially veterinarians. They'll have to carry out all those phytosanitary inspections. Does it also apply to them that they are prepared for a hard Brexit and can handle it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u140	Thank you. This was the second term of office. I see the Prime Minister can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mr. Chairman. First a few questions and then the motions. Mrs Leijten is a little too enthusiastic about the indivisible nature of the internal market, because that is not how I said it. Still, I think we're in agreement. What I have said is that the internal market and the various freedoms are indivisible. That's the lead. Then, when the British come up with proposals on not only customs but also access to that internal market for goods, you have to talk about it and ask: what exactly do you want and how does that relate to the four freedoms? But if I am going to say here "Oh, those four freedoms," then I will throw the child away with the bath water; I think we agree on that. Because that would put the internal market at risk for 420 million people. In my view, we are all looking for a solution where we have the best possible relationship with the 65 million British, but also keep the internal market for 420 million people integral and intègre and prevent harm from being done there. That's the search. I said that I am not optimistic that if the current proposals that have come from Chequers on that particular part remain on the table in this form, we will come out completely. We'll have to see about that. Of course, that lies first and foremost with the negotiator. Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS spoke about how you deal with it by boat. This is completely unrelated to the conclusion reached at the end of June. At the end of June, it was about what you could do to get the whole asylum issue under control in Europe, whether it be the African side or a redistribution on the European side. What has happened since then is that Italy refuses to take responsibility for ships that clearly have to enter an Italian port. That is where they have to get people through the procedure and see who can go back and who can stay. Whether it becomes hotspots or controlled locations is verse two. The fact that they refuse to do so cannot be the reason for the European Member States to say: we are going to take people off those ships. If you do that, it seems nice by ship, but is the effect that the smuggler will say: hey, it takes a bit longer, because you could go straight to Italy and now it's a bit more complicated, but on balance all people are spread around Europe, even more: you probably don't even have to go to Italy; you may be allowed to go to Germany or the Netherlands right away. You shouldn't want to, because then you get the sucking effect. That's my point. This is completely unrelated to the implementation of the agreements reached at the end of June. These are existing agreements that Italy must abide by, but not abide by. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u142	I fully understand the Prime Minister's response. Especially in view of the coming winter, how can we, as Europe and with pressure on Italy, as far as possible prevent accidents from happening if these calls by boat all take a long time? We have to prevent accidents, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u143	Only by putting pressure on Italy. Any other answer will explain Italy as: oh, others will solve it. No, it's really their problem. Once they have solved it and let people back in, it becomes a common problem. But they have to do it first. Otherwise, you will soon have a new alternative route to get into Europe. Now I am very much in favour of the free market, but the free market of smugglers must be destroyed as quickly as possible. That's the wrong free market. Then we have the issue of the 930 or the 928 people. Recruitment will continue until June 2019, so that the full number of 928 people will be working in the customs organisation in the foreseeable future. To the question about the NVWA that Mr Omtzigt came up with at the end, my answer is: no idea. I suggest that we pass that question on to the Minister of Agriculture. I'm guessing she's the first person responsible for the NVWA. No, I think that's just the way it is. Then she can involve that question in another debate with the Chamber. There won't be a separate letter, because we don't have the officials for that anymore. We just need to make sure that she knows that she needs that question in her set. Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union asked a question about foreign policy. What I'm saying is this. I think it's okay to have the debate with each other. If you say in advance: nothing is possible, then you run a risk. These may be important issues for the Netherlands. That is not the way to rule out the fact that there are moments in the case of the MH17 when we want Europe to act unanimously against anyone. Now I have to be real. If you always stick to complete unanimity, one Member State can break that unanimity. The lack of unanimity also has a disadvantage. That's why it's a complicated problem. You could also have some kind of super-QMV, I'm just saying something, where a few countries can't block. But those countries are very audible in that they do not agree with a decision. So the question is what this united European position means when a few countries say: we could not stop it and it happened, but we are against it. That is not a unified European image either. So there's no easy answer to this. At the same time, I would like to say: let us have this discussion, because I do not rule out the fact that there are major Dutch interests now and in the future. In addition, you have to have that discussion. The bottomline then is: not about military deployment and perhaps not at all, but let's talk about it. I have already given the answer on Selmayr in the first term. I'll stick with that. This is really a matter for the European Parliament and the European Commission. It is not the Council's responsibility now. Following Mr Verhoeven's comment on Jean-Claude Juncker, I would like to say that I welcome many elements of his speech. We've been treating some of them together today. In addition, we have our reflections when it comes to the EOM and Frontex. These are quite a few points, but, given the tone of the speech and the importance of multilateralism and the role of Europe in the world, I thought it was a good speech. And now that I'm giving you my compliments, I think it's great what he did in a conversation with the White House in the summer to avert a trade war between Europe and America. He did, that's really his achievement. He was supported by a lot of people, but he was sitting there and he had to do it. The advantage of answering all the questions is that I can now also tell Mr Omtzigt about the situation at NVWA. That question will no longer have to be passed on to Mrs Schouten. It's a total of 143. Some of them were recruited and trained in March. If there is a hard Brexit, then there must be reprioritisation, just like with Customs, because not everyone is there yet. During the rest of the year, the rest are recruited. If you have another supplementary question, please ask Carola Schouten; she will answer it. Then I'm through everything. Then there's the motions. The first is Mrs Leijten's motion on item No. 1360. May I suggest we hold that motion and just wait for the proposal? There's gonna be a BNC chip. Then let us take a stand with the Chamber. Now we're gonna respond to rumors. We don't have a proposal yet. So my proposal would be: hold the motion. Otherwise, I think I should discourage her for procedural reasons. As far as the content is concerned, I think we are on the same page. The motion in part No. 1361 gets, as far as I'm concerned, judgment Chamber. And the motions on the pieces Nos. 1362 and 1363 I advise against. There.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-10.u145	The motions tabled will be put to the vote in ten minutes.
