ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	A warm welcome to the Minister. I would like to turn directly to the applicant for this AO; Mr Kwint of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was just telling you what an amazing week I had last week. That amazement was also about the media part. For despite all the harsh words of the VVD, a motion was suddenly tabled during the General Reviews in which they say: do only 40 million more to public service broadcasting. Now I count my blessings, but I was surprised. In any case, I never want to hear from the coalition again that there is a feeling that motions have poor coverage. Then to the content. Presenters still circumvent the WNT standard through production companies. You already know the story. Since public service broadcasting, by Mr Pechtold's motion, now has to make a plan, I thought it wise that they should also include in that plan how they are going to stop the circumvention of the Law on the normalization of top incomes. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that public service broadcasting wishes to join the Top Income Standards Act as far as possible, so that public service broadcasting cannot earn more than a ministerial salary;]] [[noting that there is still an exception for staff who can also be hired through a production company, which makes it possible to earn more than the WNT standard through the accumulation of income;]] [[noting that the Pechtold motion calls on public service broadcasting to come forward with a plan for the future;]] [[calls on the government to agree with public service broadcasting to include in this future vision a plan to avoid circumventing the norming of top incomes law through production companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	A vision letter from the Minister will follow. That's badly needed, not because of his guilt, but because there's a lot going on at the Media Park. I suggest that he brings along an old wish from us in the future scenarios he is going to develop. This wish can also prevent this kind of emmerger in the future. It is also a wish that makes public service broadcasting independent of a shrinking advertising market and it is a wish for an advertising-free public service broadcaster. So I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet will soon present a long-term vision of the role of public service broadcasting;]] [[Whereas a wide-ranging discussion on the form of public service broadcasting within the system is important;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this vision letter the possibility of a completely advertising-free public service broadcasting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas local public broadcasters are essential in a functioning democracy;]] [[Whereas they have a legal role to play in providing adequate media services locally;]] [[considers that the resources allocated to the Municipal Fund are often insufficient, especially for sparsely populated and rural areas;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the costs of carrying out the legal task relate to the resources available in the Municipal Fund, including the proposal of the VNG and the NLPO for a "basic cost" in addition to the municipal duty of care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	My second motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that acceptance of broadcasters is measured by assuming membership;]] [[Whereas it is not self-evident for young people in particular to become members of a broadcaster and, consequently, the number of members does not say everything about acceptance;]] [[Whereas it is important for the future of public service broadcasting to include the wishes of young generations;]] [[calls on the government to investigate different ways of measuring support for broadcasters and to take this into account in the new vision on public service broadcasting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities;]] [[believes that people with audiovisual disabilities should have the same access to information and news;]] [[Whereas more effort is possible in the field of audiodescription and the use of deaf interpreters;]] [[Whereas only occasional programmes are provided with audio descriptors for children and young people aged between 6 and 18 years;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the target group and the NPO, to draw up a roadmap to make relevant programmes, such as national events, of public service broadcasting accessible to people with audiovisual disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-136]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint, Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was good to discuss media again after 11 months. Four points out of that AO I'd like to mark. The first is that the Minister has announced that he is going to work on a different system. I'd like to hear more about that trajectory. I understood during the AO that the motion that Mr Kwint has now tabled on an advertising-free public service broadcasting would be included. I would like to see more information than we have seen in the last 11 months on what costs are and what choices can be made. The second point concerns prospective broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr Bosma has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	To what extent does the Pechtold motion bear witness to the fact that 40 million is already being given away, just boink, blank cheque, and also that we need to talk about the conditions? Then the money is already gone but then conditions are attached to it, while the money is already in Hilversum, at least virtually. I don't think Hilversum will be impressed by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think it is very sensible that it should be stated in that motion that a plan should be drawn up first. But that's about the year to come and the year to come, and I'm talking about that other order we've been talking about. I think that's why that motion was sensible. With this we create the peace and quiet to think together about what we want for that next order. In that next order, the Minister will also see what kind of place the prospective broadcasters can get. He said he'd take this, but there'll be financial consequences. My impression is that right now we have a chance to see what financial consequences that would be, because we can adapt it, so it is influenceable. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's gonna take that. The third is investigative journalism. It's a good thing the cabinet is investing $5 million in that investigative journalism. During the AO I asked for specific attention to the vulnerable position of freelancers and their protection. The minister said he'd like to look at that. I would like to hear his response to the suggestion that we do so through the Press Freedom Fund. I think that is the right instrument for this. He doesn't necessarily have to do it himself from his department, but he can do it through, for example, the Incentive Fund, which also takes other measures in this context. The fourth is the finances of local broadcasters. A motion has just been tabled. My impression was that there was a commitment to discuss this in November and to look for the longer term at the locally adequate media supply and what it would cost and to look for the short term at what we could do for the regional broadcasters that have just been formed and some of them have problems as of 1 January. In this way, we can look at this in its entirety during the debate on the media budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think it's weird. Look, D66 has traditionally been very critical of the broadcasting organizations. At the beginning of D66, it even argued several times for a national broadcaster, a BBC model. That is also a sound that many D66 media spokesmen have in one way or another performed. And now Minister Slob actually wants to go back to the old days. He wants to bring the broadcasting organizations, which are completely down, barely have an identity and resemble each other, back from the attic, polish them again and put the power back there. This, while under the previous cabinet, all these broadcasting organizations had to merge with each other. What happened to D66 that suddenly it's so excited about the broadcasting clubs from the twenties of the last century?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	I do not know where Mr Bosma comes from that I would be'so enthusiastic' about it. I haven't heard the Minister say anything about the contours of that next order. I did read an interview with the group chairman of the Christian Union, but he does not speak on my behalf, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	Anyway, D66 says: we should not go that way; those broadcasting associations are just those broadcasting associations. D66 therefore does not want to go back to a situation in which the power and focus of these broadcasting organizations lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	As a progressive party, we rarely want to go back to such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Bosma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. Tens of thousands of houses are occupied by Syrian asylum seekers, the biggest housing shortage since the Second World War. Our kids can barely find a house anymore. Syria is largely safe. Then why are these Syrians in the Netherlands? This is primarily due to the NPO, who campaigned for years to get them to the Netherlands, with stand-ups for a photo of a drowned boy and the D66-president of the NPO who organizes a signature action with kleffe BN'ers. The NPO also makes emotional blackmail with those two Armenian children who lapped eight judgments to their boots. They can stay because of Hilversum. Every talk show now has its own pathetic kids. They cry on request. The NPO is even at the door of this room with a pathetic child in hand: Mr. MP, do you think this pathetic child should leave the Netherlands? But the only real child friend of the Netherlands, Zwarte Piet, must be devastated by the NPO. The NPO runs on the leash of the black racists. What is possible is the Ramadanjournaal. Because that's for Muslims, so that's fine. The NPO also displays a blind hatred of the President of the United States. The NPO is the voice of the climate mafia. From the asylum industry. From Brussels. Sylvana Simons. From the Islam huggers. He is the state of appeal of the one-party state called the Netherlands. NPO stands for national propaganda for the population. He's an armored fist punching you in the face 24 hours a day. The NPO is part of the politically correct stranglehold on our society. He is the voice of the left-liberal elites. The NPO considers itself better than the people. He wants to raise us. And as a reward, they get another 40 million. Pick it up, it's winter. Meanwhile, our children cannot find a home thanks to 70,000 Syrians in the Netherlands. Thanks to the NPO. Thanks to idealism over the backs of the Dutch people. Idealism of other people's money. Idealism to show you how bad you are. Idealism where you yourself in the cream-white Blaricum do not taste the consequences. That repulsive activism is in breach of the Media Act, in particular Article 2.1.2, i.e. the conditions of grant. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. Before you leave, Mr Öztürk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	I have heard that Mr Bosma has also worked for public service broadcasting in the distant past, the predecessor of FunX and so on. So he's created a lot of programs in the multicultural world. Is he converted or like Dijkhoff detached from God or from NPO? What's the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	I thought we weren't supposed to talk about private life here. Haha, I have quite a point. Well, if that's the case, I've seen the light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	Well, that's a special recognition that that's the case. But what, who and how? Then how did you see the light? Who showed you the light? Is that like: I'm with Geert now, I'm fine now, the salary's good, I can beat NPO now? Or is it from... Then where is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	There is nothing true of what Mr Öztürk says to me, but I would like to give him that pleasure. I have a sinful past in the sense that I've worked for the NOS Journal. I can often draw on this in the AO's and in the debates, because it has given me the opportunity to give a good insight into public broadcasting, so that I can talk about this with some understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. Mr Öztürk himself has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Trust in our media and press has fallen enormously in recent years. Only 32% of our population have confidence in our press and we give hundreds of millions from our budget, including to the media. That is why I have a number of proposals to improve confidence between the media and the press and the public. I have five motions for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the CBS shows that only 32% of the population have confidence in the press and that this is lower than confidence in other institutions such as banks, the House of Representatives and the EU;]] [[believes that confidence in the press is fundamental, just as the freedom of the press is fundamental;]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways of improving confidence in the press,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NPO is co-financed by taxpayers' money from all the Dutch;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the NPO to continue to work on improving diversity on and behind the scenes, so that the voice of, for example, women, young people and people with a migration background is also well heard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-138]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	And then the Code of Bordeaux. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the so-called Bordeaux Code is widely accepted as an international standard of ethical rules for journalists;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make the endorsement of the Bordeaux Code a condition for the accreditation of parliamentary journalists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the so-called Bordeaux Code is widely accepted as an international standard of ethical rules for journalists;]] [[calls on the Government to call on the NPO to have its journalistic staff sign the Bordeaux Code,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	And then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. The coalition has already sent 40 million euros towards Hilversum. That will increase the transmission time for the coalition, I suppose. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the NPO, to increase the transmission time for political parties so that parties can better inform citizens about what they stand for and thereby further strengthen democracy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for the good consultation we had at the AO Media, after we had waited a whole number of months for that. It was a good exchange of views, I think. I am also pleased that the Minister has confirmed that the window programming, which we want so that regional news can also be disseminated through the NPO, can continue. It is also a good thing that we discussed the future of our media system last week in the General Political Reviews. The Christian Union is therefore very pleased with the broad support that the motion has received in order to meet the NPO's disappointing advertising revenues, but only after the NPO has drawn up a plan on how to absorb these falling revenues in the coming years. In addition, the Chamber has stated that we must work towards the new concession period towards a future-proof public broadcasting system. I would very much like to know from the Minister how exactly he sees that route and how he will involve the Chamber. The Christian Union sees a future system of broadcasting that is democratic, pluralistic and with strong broadcasting associations, but we are happy to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	There is a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	The Christian Union also goes for broadcasters with a Christian identity. She thinks that's very important. Are you therefore prepared to ask the Minister to pay a little more attention to other believers who are happy and allowed to be happy in the Netherlands for the EUR 40 million they can make extra programmes with? At the NPO I see a lot of Christian programs. Fine, fine, but you can hardly see other beliefs. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	I believe that the broadcasters themselves should know how to implement their programmes. The Christian Union attaches great importance to the fact that philosophy is reflected in public service broadcasting. I have drawn attention to this in previous debates. I had concerns about whether that would have been arranged for the future. I think that is very important. Public service broadcasting belongs to all of us and must represent our society. It is obvious that different conceptions of life are given a place in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	That's good for me. There are 1 million people here who adhere to Islam and, in my opinion, there are 100,000 people who believe differently. So multiple beliefs. I am pleased that you also draw your own Minister's attention to the fact that, in the case of the extra funds that go there, all other beliefs should also be considered than the belief that currently dominates the NPO, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	I understand Mr Öztürk's appeal so that he supports the Christian Union in calling for a future media view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. I call Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two things are important to the VVD in this debate. First of all, everyone in the Netherlands naturally pays for our public service broadcasting. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is logical that everyone can recognize themselves in public broadcasting, from left to right, from young to old, from progressive to conservative. Pluriformity is an important part of our public service broadcasting. The various broadcasters, but certainly the current prospective broadcasters, each with their own sound, contribute to this multiform media landscape. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must therefore ensure that the noise of those prospective broadcasters remains guaranteed in a new concession period. During the current concession period, the number of members is an important requirement for prospective broadcasters. However, you can see the number of members of almost all broadcasters falling considerably. The question is therefore to what extent this member's requirement will come back in a new period. That is what we have heard here today, and there is quite a difference of opinion. It would therefore be a shame if the sound of the prospective broadcasters disappeared in the new period. We would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can undertake to guarantee the sound of these prospective broadcasters in a new concession period. Mr. Chairman. My second point concerns the future of public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes. Let us be very clear: those prospective broadcasters are PowNed and WNL, where Mrs Yeşilgöz was a table lady. I think that if you carry on like this, you could become a table-lord over there: a little more airtime. But say so. Just say: PowNed and WNL have served us well in recent years, our right-wing ideas, and we therefore want the 40 million euros we have sent...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u36	Your question, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u37	My question is whether it is not a bit of clientelism from the VVD to say that we have an order in which you have to have 150,000 members to move on, but that it needs to be removed now in order to keep those broadcasters going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u38	No. First of all, Mr Öztürk Human forgets as the third prospective broadcaster. But again, we're not talking about the prospective broadcasters themselves. We are more concerned with ensuring this noise during the new concession period. That's an important nuance, and I'd like to bring it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Öztürk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u40	The sound of WNL and PowNed is right, sometimes far right when it comes to PowNed. The question is whether this covers the pluralism of the Netherlands. So my question is whether you are not willingly and knowingly the broadcasters who put you before the elections where you wanted to go, here in this Chamber, more or less...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u41	Your point is clear. This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u42	No, it's not. As I say, pluralism means both left and right. Once again, we are saying that we would like to hear the sound of these prospective broadcasters back in the new period, precisely because a member's requirement is being applied at the moment. Of course, it would be a great shame if we said together that this member requirement might go off in the future, and that therefore the sound and thus also a piece of pluralism disappears from our new order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr President, I constantly hear Mr Aartsen saying 'the sound of these broadcasters'. I would like to be more specific about those prospective broadcasters themselves, because they are now in the middle of recruiting members. Are you really saying you want to keep them as broadcasters or do you want some kind of obligation? Do you want to impose on public service broadcasters that they should make certain types of programmes with a certain impact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u45	We're on our way to a new period right now. During the ride of course you cannot change the rules. That makes sense. That would be weird, too. But that doesn't mean we have to look at what's happening this year and choose God bless the grip after 2020. I don't think that's wise. So I call on the Minister to talk to the prospective broadcasters and with all kinds of other organizations to see how he can ensure that sound, even in a pluralistic system, in a subsequent period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u46	Only briefly in the Chamber, but already very experienced in a bit going around it. My question was very much about the broadcasters themselves. I hear about that sound between the lines: well, I think we can get rid of those broadcasters, if there is someone else trying to do the same trick. I would very much like to hear from Mr Aartsen whether he really wants to be in front of these broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u47	I would find it unhealthy if we, as a national parliament, were to say which channel we want and which one we do not. That's not what we're talking about as a parliament. I do not think it would be wise for us, as a politician, to interfere with which broadcasters there are and which are not in the order. We sketch the rules of the game together. One of them is very important to me, and that is pluralism. And that's my appeal to the Minister: don't go blinkers on just what the rules are at the moment, but also look at the next period and what contours come from it, and guarantee the sound of all prospective broadcasters, so that you have a multiform system, both left and right, conservative, progressive, young and old.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u48	So, if I understand correctly, we, as politicians, are not talking about which individual broadcasters are being kept, but about the programmes they are making. I don't quite understand that. See if the VVD says here: we want a multiform order, period. It's possible. No one can argue with that. That's what you get your hands on, except for Mr. Bosma, because he wants to get rid of it, but otherwise you'll have a lot of support. Or you say: we think it can only be a multiform order when WNL and PowNed continue to exist. One of them has to be, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u49	In my view, Mr Kwint did not hear me say that certain programmes should be maintained. In fact, I would strongly advise against saying that here as a Chamber. I think it is a very nice tradition that we do not interfere with the content, that we do not say: I do like this programme, so just do it on the tube, and well, I do not like that programme, that does not have to be on the tube as far as we are concerned. That is not how we should do it here as a parliament. That some parties do, I leave for their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u50	But now, sharp, because you yourself say: the sound must be preserved. Then you're de facto doing the same thing, aren't you? Then you say: our order is not pluralism when this particular sound of these clubs disappears from the Mediapark? Apart from what I think of that, you know, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u51	Once again, it is not up to us to say which programmes and which programmes should not be on the pipeline. It is also not good to say that we want these broadcasters in them and not them. We have said with the rules that if you want to join as a prospective broadcaster, you have to add something in terms of sound, guarantee a certain quality and have an x-number of members. The Commission for the Media has also made a proper assessment of whether they add anything. That's right. Then I think it would be a shame if that sound were to disappear from our pluralistic system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Öztürk is laughing very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u53	Shall I smile back nicely, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u54	He would like another interruption, but I am not going to allow it, because I understand from the Minister that there has been a very wide-ranging debate in the AA. I would like to ask Mr Aartsen whether or not he can talk for two minutes so that we can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u55	Yes, Mr President, I will make my second point. I'll try to do that without talking time. My second point was indeed about the future of public service broadcasting. As far as we are concerned, the time has now come to think together about the future of our public system and how we would like to organise it. We should not only do this in the light of the future plan that the NPO is now coming up with. I would also particularly like to have a good discussion about the new concession period. As far as we are concerned, there are no taboos and several scenarios must be put on the table. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister how he sees that process before him, but above all how he intends to involve the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u56	And then there was a question from Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u57	Yes, Mr President, I would just like to highlight that we have a new colleague on the media committee today. It's the 36th VVD media spokesperson I'm going through. Welcome. Yes, because Mrs Yeşilgöz, she fell off the wagon. Ms. Yeşilgöz, we have a cabinet that's younger than a year old... put on quite a pair of big pants... from "well, let's cut it a little bit here in public broadcasting and maybe a third net away" and tough, tough, tough. But then she was sitting in a room with the coalition members and then she was just severely humiliated and suddenly had to add 40 million! Mrs Yeşilgöz got a proverbial, imaginary gun on her head and just signed by the cross. He's lost all credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u58	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u59	And now it's Mr. Aartsen. Mr. Aartsen, how long do you think you can maintain your credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u61	But it's weird, isn't it, that the VVD has been talking about restricting public service broadcasting for decades? All kinds of models and proposals have been made. I remember Mr. Remkes. I remember Mr. Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr. Bosma, again, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u63	But when it comes down to it, all the tough talk ends with the VVD signing off on the cross and not being pruned in public service. There's just 40 million of our taxpayers' money that Dutch people have to work hard for. Why? Why? Why? Why don't we just cut back a little bit on the tasks and activities of the NPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u65	I want to respond to that. I will not deny it to Mr Bosma: it is true, we do not run a polonaise because we have to add 40 million. But it's not our job as a chamber to be here all day running polonaise. In my opinion, it is our job here as a Chamber to ensure that plans are put in place to improve this country and to improve the NPO. Maybe that's the difference between a party like the PVV and the VVD: on the one hand you have the PVV, which is mostly shouting but then nothing is achieved, and on the other hand you have the VVD, which is willing to take difficult measures sometimes and will ensure that there will be a future-proof public broadcasting and that we finally get some movement in Hilversum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u66	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u67	That was the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u68	I call Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u69	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u70	We are not going to have another major debate on this subject. I'm sure you'll have plenty of opportunity to do that. As tempting as it is, we're not gonna do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u71	The hallway was nice, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his commitments in the AO, including, as has already been said, commitments to local broadcasters, which are very difficult. It also raises the Minister himself on the shield to show that you can achieve a lot if you become a regional broadcaster. I would like to keep the Minister's commitment to working for these broadcasters as well. Mr. Chairman. Where the previous AO was still in the air, we now know, after the General Political Reviews, that the coalition is prepared to make a gesture towards public service broadcasting. If they come up with a plan about the future and how to deal with advertising revenues, then we are prepared to make funds available for this, especially for the sake of journalism programmes, for example. I would add that, when it comes to future plans, I expect more than we have seen so far from the NPO. I did not find the letters we have received so far very convincing, but I am sure they are capable of doing so. I think it would be a good idea to show willingness from this side to guarantee a good and strong public service broadcasting. Many speakers have already said that the future of public service broadcasting is very important. The Minister is picking up that glove. For our part, too, the question is how the Chamber will be involved. But I also call for us not only to stare blindly at the NPO itself, however important it is, because we have an entire Dutch media landscape to defend, also in relation to all kinds of foreign parties who are trying to get away with. So we also need to look a little bit wider. That is why I reiterate my call to put pressure on the various parties to make a success of the NLZIET platform, in which commercial and public programmes come together. How can the Minister increase this pressure a little further? Mr. Chairman. As a CDA, we also support the motion tabled by Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks to enable audio description and to make a plan for it. There are still too many people who do not have the sight or the hearing to experience programs. They should also be able to enjoy the beautiful Dutch product, so it is really time for the cabinet, with others, to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u72	Mr Kwint has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u73	When it was earlier on about the decline in advertising revenue and I suggested that the Minister supplement it, he said: "Then it is at the expense of education. I'm not gonna do that. I'm not gonna take it off my budget." Meanwhile, a trick box has been opened where 40 million went out. Are there any conditions for Mr Van der Molen for where the money should come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u74	No, there are no conditions on my part. The moment you made that call, I thought it was too early. I have always said from the beginning: in advance I am not going to bring a bag of money to public service broadcasting because I want to know from the public service how it intends to shape the future in this changing environment. This has actually come together in the motion that has been tabled in the Chamber, together with the request to the Minister for a more detailed discussion of the media letter, in which we are discussing the budget of the Media in the wider sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u75	Exactly, that was the future plan, because they hadn't thought about it at the Mediapark themselves that they could also use a future plan. But do you at least say this: it is unacceptable for us that education is going to suffer from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u76	No, I'm not saying that. Not because I wouldn't want to. I am also spokesperson for Education, so we know from each other that we both have a heart for that, but I suspect that if I said that I would not want to do so, then every time I interrupt you will present me with another subject that is very close to my heart. At least that doesn't make it much easier for the Minister. So, of course, we are going to see how the Minister is going to shape this and how he is going to propose it to the Chamber. And of course we are going to assess whether this is going to be the right place or the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u77	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A future-proof media system with a strong public broadcasting system is our commitment. That is why, together with CDA and GroenLinks, we have taken the initiative of a round table which will soon be planned in order to shed light on this issue. Because the future of the NPO is now perhaps less under pressure but is still under pressure in the longer term and the financial concerns have not yet been fully removed, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the NPO is deemed to be making a renewal plan while at the same time struggling with declining Star revenue;]] [[Whereas in the event of renewal under such financial pressure, the diversity of editors and the security of employees may be at stake;]] [[noting that the Government intends to be involved in the performance arrangements in the renewal plan to be drawn up;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure diversity and good employership within the performance agreements, and to inform the Chamber about this prior to the budget treatment of OCW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for inviting you to speak about the media. 'Cause I can't get here until I'm invited by you. It's nice to be able to do that again, because there are a lot of topics we can talk about. Recently, we had a very good general discussion in which a great deal was discussed. That consultation was lifted over the summer because of my illness. In that consultation I indicated that I am at least working on two really large routes in my view. From one trajectory, I'm a participant. The public and commercial parties talk to each other about all the interfaces they have. We'll see if we can reach a media agreement. I say to Mr Van der Molen that this includes the discussion about NLZIET and the like. We're talking about a wide package. I also hope that it will be possible to reach an agreement, but of course I am also dependent on all the other parties sitting at the table. That is the intention of everyone who has been pushed there. The second stage is indeed about working on a new media system, that is what I call it. That is what we are doing in the sense that we realise that the current design of our public media system gives rise to some discussion as to whether it is future proof. We are seeing all kinds of developments, not only at national level but also internationally, which require us to build, in the run-up to a new concession period, a public media system that really can cope with the future. I repeat here that I will outline to you in the media letter how I see that process. We will simply have to work hard for this in 2019, because the time is limited in the sense that by the end of 2019 the whole set-up will start towards a new concession period. The law lays down what we should do with censuses, the Commissariat and advice to be given. I explained it to you in general consultation. We will therefore have to work hard to clarify in good time and to be able to move towards a new period. I do not need any motions for resolutions on all the issues mentioned here. I also think it would be very unwise to impose one or two motions on that process. But that's just part of it. Of course there is talk of dependence on the source of income advertising. We have had a lot of fun of that for a long time, but these years it is a bit disappointing, so I say with some sense of understatement. Of course, we also need to think about how we deal with prospective broadcasters. We now have the situation that of the three prospective broadcasters, two are in the rematch. That is also a special situation. Is that what we want? How do we see that? We're gonna have to take that in width, too. So all those issues that have been mentioned here, but also a whole range of ones that have not yet been mentioned. But you'll be the first to get the trial in the media letter. And then we'll talk about that. Then the boat will definitely go away, and hopefully also with a lot of speed. Mr President, that was what I had to say about the routes running. I'm gonna focus on the motions now. In these motions, I will also refer from time to time to the routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'd like to urge you to be as brief as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u81	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u82	... because the more information you provide, the more the roommates are inclined to restart the debate. Moreover, a great deal of new information has been added since the debate. I can see Mr Bosma standing there. He would very much like to have another debate. I'll give you room for a very brief question, Mr. Bosma. But we're not starting the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u83	No, but it's a good thing we can talk about the general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u84	No. We're not gonna talk endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u85	Certainly not endless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u86	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u87	Be careful how pointy I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u88	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u89	It was a very strange general discussion. In the morning, De Telegraaf suddenly said: there is 40 million more. So we had a debate that we couldn't have, because we didn't know if that was true. And the minister was very vague about it. Mr. Kwint said Mr. Pechtold came up with something from the top hat last week, or from the trickbox. You'll never guess the 40 million. So that message from De Telegraaf from three weeks ago turned out to be just right. Now I can ask the question, because it just turned out to be true. How is it that De Telegraaf knows and that the coalition knows, but that the House of Representatives, which has to check this distinguished minister, doesn't know that? That's not a proper course of action, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u90	I don't have to explain to Mr. Bosma how this process went, where this initiative came from. This is coming from the room. You have asked me as a governor to respond to messages in the newspaper. That was in a consultation in which, on the basis of all the information I have provided you, I think it was a huge package of letters and reports that I think we have been working very hard to discuss content with each other. Initiatives from the Chamber come from the Chamber. You've seen my budget. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u91	No. Surely it can't be that the Minister didn't hear from the General Reviews until last week about the 40 million? Mrs Yeşilgöz was sacrificed, because she had a big mouth. It's just been taken to northern Siberia or something!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr. Bosma, we're not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u93	That 40 million must have been singing around for a while. Surely it can't be that the Minister suddenly belonged to the General Reviews to the amount of 40 million? That amount was in De Telegraaf three weeks before and turns out to be right. It can't be that the Minister didn't know anything about it, was sitting here in the benches last week and suddenly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u94	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u95	... scared of a 40 million-dollar motion? That's not how things work in The Hague, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u96	Period, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u97	I have already been asked at the beginning of the general consultation that was already very much a response to newspaper reports. I said what I said then. I don't think it's really appropriate in the direction of the Chamber either. We were supposed to speak on the basis of what was going on there at the time. I found, and this is also a compliment to the Chamber, that we have had an incredibly good debate on all subjects. That also went beyond just money for public service broadcasting and Star revenue. It was part of the debate, among all the subjects on which it was based. This is also apparent from all the motions that have now been tabled, because these fangs, so to speak, are also in every direction. That is right, because it is a wide area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u98	Before you respond to that, I would like to point out, also in the direction of Mr Bosma, that there will be a new opportunity for a comprehensive response. That is, as I say, out of my mind, on November 26th. Then there is a legislative consultation Media. Then you can talk extensively about the reconstruction of the 40 million. The Minister now responds quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u99	I look forward to that day, too. It's in my schedule, too. Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 133 members of Kwint and Westerveld are asked, following the Pechtold motion, to make arrangements to include in the future vision attached to that Pechtold motion a plan to avoid circumventing the Top Incomes Act through production companies. I think it would be a good idea if you looked very closely at Mr Pechtold's motion, which calls on the NPO to draw up a plan to absorb the disappointing Star revenue in a way that can also avoid programming as much as possible. I think we are aware that after this year it is probably not over with that disappointing income. Of course transparency is important in this respect, even from the point of view of the NPO. That's what the Pechtold motion is asking for. I would not like to burden that with this issue. We've talked about that before. I'm quite willing to talk to you in November about the norming of top incomes. I myself am content with the fact that it is slowly but surely declining, because of the demands we can make on public service broadcasting. You also know that this is a little more difficult when it comes to the private sector. But let us continue this debate at a later date and not impose a burden on the implementation of the Pechtold motion, which I believe is ready to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u100	So this motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u101	I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr Kwint, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u103	The ingenious thing about this proposal is that, while we are looking for a public service broadcaster capable of dealing with declining advertising revenue, we are immediately providing a way for public service broadcasting to save money. Then I think it makes perfect sense to link the two of them together. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u104	We ask the public service broadcaster to come up with a plan for how he wants to deal with any disappointing revenue. Let's just wait and see. Of course, that plan also comes before you in the budget handling and handling of the media letter in November. Then we can have the debate in all widths, because it remains an interesting subject. But I stand by my judgment to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u105	Then the motion to part No. 134.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u106	The motion in part No. 134 belongs to Mr Kwint. I have just indicated what the process is with regard to the longer-term plan, so working towards a future-proof public media system. I therefore advise against this motion. We will discuss further in November what the process looks like. This is followed by the further content. The motion in part No. 135 belongs to colleagues Westerveld, Van den Hul and Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u107	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 134.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u108	I was afraid of this at the Minister's introduction. He says, "There's a lot coming back in November." That is true, of course, but I honestly do not see the objection, the problem. In my view, we are not burdening any process, not in Hilversum and not in the Ministry, at the time we say: we are also participating in the development of the future scenarios of public service broadcasting and we are also doing a bit about advertising-free public service broadcasting. We don't ride in the wheels in any way, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u109	The opinion on this motion is, of course, ultimately up to the Chamber, but this is my advice, because I think that otherwise things are far too ad hoc. I think it is important that we have a clear view of this with each other. You, as a chamber, are entitled to that, because you have also asked for your involvement in it. I will outline in the media letter what this trajectory is going to look like and what we will consider in the process as parts that will need to be considered. I take with me all the suggestions mentioned here, but let us give an overall assessment of what lies ahead. Once again, it is of course up to your Chamber itself to decide on motions, but I advise against this motion because I do not think it is really careful to pull out one or two things and pour them firmly into the concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u110	The motion in part No. 135 by Mrs Westerveld c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u111	I also advise against this motion, because I have already made a commitment to this in general consultation, including CDA, Christian Union and D66, who had asked for it. I indicated that I would have had my conversation with the VNG and the LPO before the November meeting. My colleague from the Interior will be there as well. On that basis, we can look further at what is still needed, if you wish, but I think it would be good to first implement the commitment I made to the Chamber and then continue talking to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u112	The Minister says that there is already a commitment, but that commitment is about something else. That commitment is that the Minister will address the funding of the public broadcasters in the letter. In the debate, I literally asked whether the regional and local broadcasters would pay the amount. I did, of course, look into what the Minister said at the time. And then there will be a very long answer, which can be summarized in concrete terms as: I see the issue and I am in agreement. While our question is: can they go out with the amounts they get? The motion also asks the Minister to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u113	The moment I start talking to the VNG and the NLPO and my colleague from the Interior is involved in this, isn't this the case? Then we will discuss with each other what is necessary and desirable and also what opportunities there are from the different budgets to do something about it. In any event, one point has already been raised, namely that the municipalities have the possibility to charge a certain amount per household through their municipal tax system, so to speak, and that not every municipality does. So that is also a subject to discuss with each other. I'd say you'll have to wait and see what I come back with. On that basis, we can see what else is needed and what you consider necessary in my direction and perhaps towards the Interior, because you know that this is not just a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mrs Westerveld, the Minister is asking for patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u115	Yeah, I got that. For the record, I do not know what is being discussed in the talks with the Minister. I asked you literally in the debate whether you could take this issue with you. My question was not whether we were going to have to make this guideline amount compulsory, because that is where the discussion on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If I do not get a specific answer to that question, perhaps it is not so strange that we should ask for it again by means of a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u116	I have also indicated in the general consultation what I can do for them as a result of my responsibility for the media. You know that funding for these media organisations is different from regional and national funding. That makes the conversation between you and me about how we're gonna do that a little more difficult, too. That is why I am pleased that my colleague from the Interior and I have a joint discussion with the national representation of the local broadcasters and with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Of course, that's the perfect time to talk about things like this. Then we're not talking about education or I don't know what. Then we are talking very focused about their task, how they deal with it, what they experience in problems and what possible solutions are to help them. Of course, money will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u117	The motion in part No. 136.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u118	The motion in part No. 136 I also advise against. This is the same as what I said about advertising and the prospective broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr Aartsen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u120	I understand the Minister's response, namely that he is taking these elements with him in the media letter. I would ask him not only to speak in the media letter about the process that we are going to go through to that new concession period in 2019, but also to indicate very clearly what content is being investigated during the period of the new concession, because the motions on the documents Nos. 134 and 135, in my view, deal with substantive issues. Then the Court can also make it clear that it would have liked to have examined something in the course of the period of the new concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u121	I have just promised that I will also indicate the substance of the issues. Then you can also assess whether you think that is sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u122	The Minister literally said in the debate that he does not intend to throw the membership numbers overboard. I therefore have the impression that the Minister does not agree with our motion in particular, but that is something other than that the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u123	I have indicated that I work in a certain order. I have indeed said something about the number of Members. Some now easily indicate that public service broadcasting would have no external pluralism at all and would not be anchored in society, but this is contradicted on the basis of the figures alone. There are still a lot of people in public service organisations. We cannot simply put that aside as 'negligible'. I merely indicated that we should first have clarity about the process and what subjects should be taken into account. Then there's the sequel. This is the same answer as the one I gave to Mr Aartsen. That's all gonna come in a very short time. We're only gonna talk in a couple of weeks. Then it's all there. I think that's a much better time than now, during a VAO, to discuss that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u124	We have indeed discussed this in general consultation. I didn't say anything about throwing the membership numbers overboard. The point is that we say that young people are less likely to join a broadcasting network. We can have a well-naïve debate on this, but I think that is obvious. We ask in the motion to include different ways in this new vision to see how we can provide enough support. That's all we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u125	I just indicated what I think. I will not say at all that this is a strange subject to talk about. In fact, of course it will be on the agenda later. All I've said is that it's important not to do it ad hoc, but to give a total judgment. That is why it is not so nice in such a process, but in the end you are talking about taking a few things out of it and trying to record them by means of a motion. Let's take a look at the overall overview and assess that. You may be served in a variety of ways. I can't even rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u126	The motion in part No. 137.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u127	I would ask you to hold this motion for a moment, and I will explain why. We have discussed this intensively before. I am very impressed by the fact that Mrs Westerveld is a bit more difficult for this target group and the use of media that is sometimes a little more difficult for them, which means that all kinds of resources are needed. You know there's no legal obligation. So everything that happens here happens on a voluntary basis. I am impressed by what is already happening on a voluntary basis: the use of gesture interpretation, subtitles, spoken subtitles, audio description. I also see that this has increased in recent times, perhaps due to the attention of the Chamber, including among young people, because this is also offered to children in telefilms for the youth and children's series. If you ask for a roadmap now, you say that you actually want a headline on top of what is happening now. It's voluntary. There are also costs that have now simply been included in the funds available, but if we want to get back on top of them, it is a bit more than voluntary. Those are pretty expensive investments. Not wrong, of course, because we also like that it happens. But for example, a program with audio descriptor costs €3,500 per broadcast hour. So I'd like to promise you that I'll make the Chamber understand what's happening right now. Then you can decide whether you really think that further enlargement is necessary. Then, when discussing the budget, we can consider how we think this should be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u128	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u129	So I would ask Mrs Westerveld to hold the motion and then, on the basis of those facts, hold the further discussion, which I think is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u130	I would first like an answer from Mrs Westerveld to the Minister's suggestion. Are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u131	The motion has several signatories, so I think it is a good thing that I consult with the other people first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u132	Yes, in which case, the motion will be denied judgment. Let's go to the motion on part number one. 138.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u133	That is Mr Öztürk's motion, in which he asks the government to see how confidence in the press can be improved. I advise against this motion. You want the arm of this government to go very far. We do have a responsibility for the public part, so public service broadcasting. I note, on the basis of studies, that there is considerable confidence in public service broadcasting, even if I think of a June survey conducted in Western European countries. Only Sweden was still above us at the time. But there are also own investigations that indicate that confidence is high. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u134	The motion in part No. 138 is not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 139.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u135	The motion in part No. 139 I also advise against, not because what is written is simply taken out of the air, but because it is already part of the existing performance agreements. So there is no reason why we should once again raise this by means of a motion if it is already an ordinary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u136	The motion in part No. 140?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u137	The motion in part No. 140 is addressed to the House of Representatives, to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u138	Yeah, that's right. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u139	So I'll leave that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u140	Then the motion to part No. 141.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u141	The motion in part No. 141 I don't recommend. The Bordeaux Code is already professional standard. We have also discussed this in the general consultation. The NPO has its own journalistic code, which is also based and inspired by the Bordeaux Code. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u142	The motion in part No. 141 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 142 I also advise against. There is no reason to suddenly increase the broadcasting time for political parties in a linear fashion. There are many other opportunities for political parties to present themselves. I believe DENK sometimes uses it like no other. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mr Öztürk on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 142, it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u145	I'm gonna go on all the motions in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u146	All five are dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u147	I am very sorry about that. Throughout the world people are trying to tackle fake news and confidence in the press, but the Minister says: I do nothing with it. I have put it quite nicely:'see', so let's have a look with the officials at what we can do to increase confidence in the press. But about everything on which "DENK" stands, the Minister already says in advance: dissuade. I'm sorry to hear that. You do not participate in the DENK idea to do something to promote the public's confidence in the media. You don't want to talk about that in your official organization. I think that's a little out of line with the minister I met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u148	I distance myself from the qualification that I wipe everything that says "DENK" right off the table. I'm giving a substantive assessment. I shall indicate what we are responsible for from our point of view: the public part of broadcasting. I have indicated that these very nice figures can show you about trust. Other media companies will have to talk to themselves about what they can do about trust when they see such figures, but that really is a responsibility that lies with them. In the media, but also in other subjects, it is very important that we know our place very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr Öztürk in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u150	Particularly sorry to hear this: we need to know our place. We know our place. We see that the population no longer trusts the media, so other foreign media is going to trust, causing problems within our population in the Netherlands. I think we should know that place too, Minister. You also dissuade my motion on young people, women and migrants. Do you really think that people with a migrant origin are well represented by the NPO? Do you think that these groups are satisfied with the programming of NPO, so you can say that it is already policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u152	How can you just wipe this off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u153	I'm not gonna wipe it off the table. It's part of the performance agreements. In accordance with the procedure, the Media Commissioner shall ensure compliance with performance agreements. That's gonna come up with a proper report. That report will also be given to the Chamber and may give you reason to enter into conversation, but now you are asking us to do something that is already part of the performance agreements. That's a little double-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u154	The motion in part No. 143, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yes, and there was one more question from Mr Sneller, which I will do first. When it comes to knowing our place, Mr Sneller asked whether freelancers could also use the money from the Press Freedom Fund. I assume that's what you mean when it comes to their safety, because that's what we talked about in the general discussion. That is indeed the case. That shouldn't go straight through us. So we can go along this route to, knowing our place, make a contribution to their safety. (NL) Mr President, finally, the motion for a resolution on item No. 143 of member Van den Hul on the NPO's renewal plan, as she calls it, and performance agreements. This links two things together, but it is equally important to see the order. I have already referred to Mr Pechtold's motion, which calls for a plan to be drawn up on disappointing Star revenue and how it can be worked out on journalism. That plan must already be in the budget. So we need to work very hard on this now. On the basis of that plan, we can indeed assess whether we consider it a sufficient and b whether it also affects performance agreements, which continue until the end of this concession period. So we can't make that judgment until November, if that plan is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u156	So you're asking for the motion to be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u157	Well, this motion can't be this way. In fact, I must advise her not to, but the discussion will certainly take place when the plan is in place. Then we certainly need to look together at the current performance agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u158	Based on what was exchanged here earlier this afternoon, I saw this coming a little bit. However, I regret that. I believe that what this motion is about and what other motions tabled earlier today are about is to give the Minister certain things, just in front of the trial. I hear very well what the Minister is saying: we are going to go into that process now and then it is time to look at all these matters. I still think it is very important to make statements on the front. In this context, I would now like to ask the Minister: does he share the importance of and also the concern for diversity and good employership, precisely in the light of the innovation that needs to be made now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u159	I can say yes to that. I have also indicated this in general consultation. You are now asking me to do something about the treatment of the media budget in November with regard to performance agreements, but the performance agreements of this concession period are simply there. They're gonna go all the way to the end. We are also working on a route because we want to build a building for the new concession period over this period. This means that you can deal with all kinds of issues. But the way you're doing it right now is not the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u160	So this motion is going to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u161	I would therefore like to point out that, in the course of the discussions we are going to have on how we are going to organise this process and on what topics we think are important, you will come to us with these kinds of themes as well. Then we can judge with each other what we can or can't find in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u162	The motion is now being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u163	I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u164	A suggestion would be to hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u165	I do not intend to do so, because once again, this is something I would like to give to the Minister at the front of the route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u166	Okay. Mr. Kwint, do you really have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u167	A very important one, in fact. The Minister said earlier, when it was about money for public service broadcasting, that he would not take it from the Education budget. Does he still think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u168	Sure. Nor the regional and local broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr. Kwint, one short comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u170	I suspect the answer is that we are going to talk about this in November, but I was curious when we could possibly see an idea of where the money should come from, should there be a plan from the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u171	The Chamber has given its opinion, and the Prime Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, has given an opinion that we want 40 million to be added. I have the text of the motion here. The way and where that money comes from will, of course, also be made clear. I cannot rule out the possibility that this might come from an amendment from the Chamber, where it is being considered where it should come from. Perhaps there will be a supplement to the budget, or whatever. That will, of course, have to be done in order. But I do not intend to remove it from education. I have also been very clear in the past year with regard to the shot I took between the national part and what needs to be done locally and regionally. I fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u172	Then we have come to the end of this VAO on media and journalism. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u173	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
