ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u1	Looking at the Chamber and the spokesmen so closely, we can proceed directly with the amendment of the Health Insurance Act in relation to leaving unchanged the mandatory own risk for healthcare insurance up to 2021. Ten speakers have spoken for this. The Minister for Medical Care is already present. I would also like to welcome the people present, the people of the press and the people who follow it at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mr President. For us there is a proposal to fix the mandatory own risk for health insurance at €385 per year over the next three years. Although GroenLinks prefers the elimination of its own risk, we also prefer to see its own risk frozen instead of increasing further. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not change the threshold that already poses its own risk of access to care. In fact, with this proposal, insured persons will pay €34 extra to care premium, while their own risk remains the same. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, costs should never be a reason to avoid concern. Nevertheless, the Minister seems to have the idea that it would be a good thing if, because of their own risk, insured persons would ask three more times whether a referral from their general practitioner is necessary. This leads to the conviction that insured persons are not entitled to follow-up care, but should see this as a choice, a luxury product. As far as my group is concerned, this should never be the case. In fact, if the GP refers a patient to the hospital, then I assume that there is a need for care. Mr. Chairman. Freezing one's own risk should reduce the accumulation of care costs. However, the costs will not be reduced. In fact, freezing one's own risk is financed from an increase in the care premium. For the group of people with lower middle incomes who do not pay their own risk in full, this proposal even means an additional accumulation of costs. This large group of Dutch people needs extra support instead of an extra high bill. Mr. Chairman. Then the effect of care costs on avoiding care. Research carried out by NIVEL has shown that about one fifth of insured persons do not follow up on referrals and that a quarter of insured persons do not collect medicines. Half of this group of people do not follow the advice of the general practitioner because of any costs. Although the Minister points out that reducing the risk would lead to unnecessary additional use of care, almost half of those who refrain from general care or follow-up care afterwards indicate that this has not been a good decision. Does the Minister share our concerns about this kind of care avoidance? Does he consider all the care advised by the general practitioners, so all the follow-up care, necessary? Mr. Chairman. The NIVEL study calls for a specific follow-up study on the group of patients who do not follow referrals from the general practitioner. This study is of particular importance for GroenLinks, as this group of patients appears to increase over the years. Where in 2009 18% to 20% references did not follow, this was 27% in 2013. Furthermore, it appears that people who have to make debts often avoid care. These results show that our concerns are not yet accessible to everyone. In addition, the report shows that avoiding care is at the expense of the affordability of the system. For some of the care fenders, to describe them as such, the complaints are getting worse and worse. This can ultimately lead to higher costs. That is very annoying for the people themselves, especially for those with physical complaints or health complaints, but it is also very annoying for us as a society, because in the end we bear those costs. That while those complaints would have been easy to remedy earlier. Mr. Chairman. The latest figures we have from the NIVEL report date back to 2013. It's been a long time. I am far from reassured that the percentage of care avoidrs would now be stabilised. I suspect the number of care avoidrs has increased. Is the Minister prepared to carry out further research into the group of patients who, due to financial thresholds or debts, do not follow the referrals of the GP? Does he wish to identify whether the percentage of insured persons who do not follow referrals has continued to rise in recent years? Finally, Mr President. GroenLinks wants affordable and accessible care to be the norm again. To achieve this, a reduction in our own risk is necessary but not enough. Until then, we hope that the Minister will at least be prepared to investigate the group of insured persons who deliberately and for financial reasons refrain from necessary care, a situation which should not be avoided in our country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Ellemeet. I would like to give the floor to Mr Hijink of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are discussing this law today to freeze our own risk is an important milestone in itself. With the submission of this bill alone, but also by literally writing it down in a law, the Minister acknowledges that his own payments in the care should not lead people to abandon necessary care for financial reasons. That is what the SP has been saying since the introduction of its own risk, but the Minister acknowledges that. The SP is an opponent of its own risk; everyone knows that. We don't want this fine on being sick. So this is the principle under its own risk, which is that sick people pay to keep the premium of healthy people relatively low. We do not want this reverse solidarity, because in a social country you share the costs of care and do not charge people who need care against their will. Mr. Chairman. The increase in own risk has been linked to the increase in healthcare costs in recent years. That is very strange in itself, because the collective increase in costs does not, of course, say anything about the affordability of care for an individual. If the system we have through market forces, competition and waste leads to higher costs, then the risk automatically increases for people who need care but cannot do anything about this cost increase. What is it about making people aware of the cost of care? That reasoning doesn't really make any sense if the risk itself doesn't have anything to do with the individual need for care? It is also strange because such a link assumes that you can endlessly increase your own risk without compromising access to care. Can the Minister comment on that? What does he think of the principle that one's own risk normally increases with the cost of care? To what extent is someone who is chronically ill stimulated to take less care? Does this minister consider the own risk of €385 to be a logical amount? Why not €100 less? Why not €200 less? Why not just, to save a lot of misery, €385 less? The SP has tabled an amendment to this law to remove the link between the increase in healthcare costs and the own risk from the law. I honestly assume that the Minister will support this adjustment. After all, what we are doing is exactly what the Minister is doing for the coming years. Why automatically increase your own risk if this cabinet and also the Cabinets can decide for themselves how high their own risk should be? The level of one's own risk is ultimately a political choice and not a legal one, not an automatic one. Does the Minister recognize that? Isn't the fact that he's now making a law that lets go of the clutch not proof that automatically increasing one's own risk is undesirable? Mr. Chairman. For the coming years, the own risk will be fixed at €385. That is a very poor result of an election campaign in which a large majority in this Chamber, 98 seats, have been promised to reduce the risk. Almost two thirds of this Chamber said that we must reduce our own risk. What happened to these members? How is it that the promise is not fulfilled? How is it possible that there is money for the abolition of the dividend tax, but not for the reduction of one's own risk? How is it that, for example, we did not talk about dividend taxation for a second in the election campaign, not a second, when there is so much money available for that now? In particular, how do parties such as the CDA and the Christian Union explain this? Mr Segers literally said: 'The risk of being ill is a fine'. A fine on being sick, those are words that seem familiar to me as a SP'er. If that is also the language and tone of the Christian Union tonight, then I think we can still do business. The choice of one's own risk is a fundamental choice. It says something about how you look at society as a party or as an individual. Are you assuming neoliberal principles, in which the principle of profit applies to services that you would like to pay together in a social society? The question of whether we bear each other's burdens or whether we have a mandatory risk of our own is, in the end, a choice between civilisation and an all-for-one society. The CDA wrote in the election programme: "A significant reduction in the own risk means that the burden of care is distributed more fairly among healthy and sick people." That's plain language. The CDA thus acknowledges that the unfairness at its own risk is embedded in the system. In this sense, there is talk of a substantial reduction. Let me put the question to this minister. Does he think that, at its own risk, which was first €385 and which is still €385, there is a significant reduction, as proposed by the CDA? During the formation period, the argument was not to support our proposal, our plan to reduce our own risk by €100, that we were still negotiating. Of course, that argument is no longer valid today. You'd say: all the space to still go down. Another chance to make an election promise come true. With support for the SP amendment, we are solving another problem, namely that of the terribly unfair dividend tax, which is still stuck somewhere in the throats of Christian Union members. Let us remove that gift to international big business and foreign governments and spend that money very usefully on reducing their own risk. Never before was it so easy to hit two birds with one stone. A great deal of research has been done in recent years on the consequences of one's own risk. I've got a whole pile here. They're surveys and reports that show that the risk is a brake for people. It's a whole pile that says: 20% of all Dutch, one in five, sometimes doesn't use care when they actually need it. And that's very serious. Those are people who don't go to the pharmacy to pick up their medications, when they do need them. These are people who have been to the doctor, who actually have to go to the hospital, to a specialist, but do not, because they are afraid of the costs, because they are afraid of not being able to pay the risk. What also emerges from that whole pile is that the majority of the people, of the Dutch, just don't want it. We don't want this system. We don't want sick people paying for healthy people. That's reverse solidarity. The majority of the Dutch say: stop that. A whole bunch of tests proves that. Then turn that against the other investigation, the investigation used by the government to justify the cleverness of abolishing the dividend tax. One report, one fluttery report, paid for by Shell. One report on the basis of which EUR 1.4 billion is spent on foreign investors, to foreign governments; EUR 1.4 billion that we can use very well to help these people. And that's the choice we have tonight: do we choose Shell or do we choose the sick? That's a choice this government has already made. She chooses Shell. She says: give that 1.4 billion to foreign investors, give it to foreign governments and let the sick pay the bill. That is what I also appeal to the other Members. ChristianUnion and CDA, you promised last year that there could be 100 euros off. The abolition of the dividend tax is possible, but for the sick there is no money. That's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u6	Perhaps a short supplement or a correction: it turns out to be 1.6 billion over last year and not 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u7	Thank you very much. That's very good. Then we can reduce our own risk much more, so that seems to me to be a very sensible idea. Mr. Chairman. The point is that very few people can imagine that you have to pay your own contribution after you report a break-in to the police or that your bike was stolen or something. No one can imagine that. Or that the fire department sends a bill after the lightning's smashed into your barn. Or that there's been a fire and you get an invoice because they've come to put out. There's nothing we can imagine. Or that the DOD sends a bill when the sandbags are filled because there's a flood threatening. You can't imagine anything like that, can you? Do we have a picture of people living in the Netherlands of how much they live above NAP in order to assess how much they should contribute to raising the dikes? No, we all don't. Why not? Because we believe that your important collective provisions, which you all use in time and which are of great importance to everyone, pay together. It is precisely the individualization of care that has made care so much more expensive in recent years. Every operation must be recorded. An invoice must be paid for each consultation. Everything must be recorded on paper. Why? So that every z that is put into care can also be brought back to an individual. Not only does this result in a lot of bureaucracy, but that also gives people high, peppered bills. To what end? For no purpose at all. Yes, to tax people with an amount of €385, so many people just don't get the care they need anymore. Last week I received an e-mail from someone who said: I was with a specialist, on the advice of the general practitioner, so with a referral, and the consultation took less than twenty minutes, but through the insurer I had an account of €500, which meant that the risk was at one stroke. Twenty minutes in a hospital, $500. In what way, should I ask the Minister, should this make people aware of the cost of care? What was this patient supposed to do? Shouldn't he have gone to the hospital? Should he have called the hospital first if he could have done it for $100? What exactly is the Minister's view of this? Does the patient in question have to switch insurers? How does this way of charging the own risk contribute to keeping the cost of care under control? I don't believe in it, and the vast majority of the population doesn't believe in it either. Mr. Chairman. The own risk remains €385 over the next few years, which is too high; Mrs Ellemeet also said it. It is too high and it is not good enough, but better than a further increase. Can the Minister explain how he expects the risk to develop after 2021? We hope, of course, that it does not come to that. Because if this cabinet were to fall prematurely, we would simply eliminate our own risk as SP in a new government. That's the ideal scenario. If the Minister now says 'let me cooperate', I warmly welcome it. But suppose now that this cabinet unexpectedly time perfectly. What will happen on 1 January 2022? The indexing will be picked up again. Then what are the expectations? What is this minister's expectation for the level of his own risk in that year? And isn't it strange that he's here filing a law that takes care of the high level of personal contribution to the care, and then in that same law, undoing that law again? Why is raising one's own risk not desirable now, but in the long term? That's inconsistent, isn't it? Why does the Minister not opt for freezing or, better, reduction or abolition, permanently? What makes this law deserve temporaryity is my question to the Minister. Then, Mr. Chairman, let's finish. We have tabled an amendment. This is about the many tens of billions spent by health insurers. The Court of Auditors still cannot carry out any checks on effectiveness and legality. That is a shame for the SP, because it is a very large amount of public money, a lot of money, of which you would say: the Court of Auditors should be able to monitor it. That is why we have tabled an amendment to make this possible. I very much hope for the support of this Minister and, of course, for the support of the majority in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u8	I would like to ask the SP Group what it really costs to eliminate its own risk. We're gonna take our own risk to zero and what does that cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u9	According to the final sum of 4.5 billion or so, depending on how you judge how much it costs. Is its own risk a cost item or is its own risk a burden shift? You could say it costs 4.5 billion. Yeah, it costs 4.5 billion and it's brought in by sick people. You can also say: we pay that together. It's a pocket pocket. It's a choice whether you put it with the sick or with the whole society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u10	Indeed, around 4.5 billion it costs. Then the SP had another plan: to abolish the health insurance companies. Let me tell you: that costs 6 billion. Add it up for a second, and you'll be over 10 billion. Incredible! And those are costs we have to bear together, in which the christian union's melon is not included. The fair story is that our care costs have to be paid, left or right. Over 10 billion euros, I say to the SP. Ultimately, it is just taxpayers who have to pay it, people in this country, or through taxes or through premiums. So let us work together on a sensible debate on how to curb the cost of care, because I think that is what this evening really is about. If we want to keep care affordable, we should not come up with this kind of cheap talk, but simply take real measures to reduce the burden of regulation, to prevent waste in care. I think we should talk about that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u11	It is very strange that if you want to keep the costs of care affordable, as a coalition, as a government you start throwing EUR 1.4 billion over the bar. If you want to curb the cost of care and keep care for people affordable, at least start not doing so. Indeed, if it is up to the SP, there is still a whole battery of proposals that we want to make to keep care more human, social and affordable. The current system is full of ways that are not fair, for example, the closure of the care premium. It doesn't matter in this country whether you make €52,000 or €152,000 or half a million, you always pay the same care premium. It's maximized. Well, let's fix that. If you say "we have to share it more honestly," let's take a look at that. But let us not transfer EUR 1.4 billion here to foreign investors, to foreign governments, when that money is so well spent within our own borders. That is a completely wrong approach at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u12	Mr Hijink is very good at assessing other people's plans, but I would also like to talk about a plan of his own. The SP's plan for care states that the right to care disappears and that it becomes a provision. Perhaps you could also explain to the people of the country what that means to the people, when it comes to the care they are entitled to, but what you think is a provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u13	Look, the Central Planning Office has models, and that's where we put our figures and, indeed, that's where it rolls out that if we want a national care fund, we're breaking up with the current system. The SP is for the right to care, especially when it comes to how it is now regulated by the Health Insurance Act. We are in favour of a national health fund where all medical care is included and therefore not for the system that is now defending the VVD, which means that people who are sick pay too much and people who are healthy are spared. That's the big difference between our two parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u14	That's a nice story and another you-bak towards another party, but you have to look at your own plans. What do they mean to the people in the country? They mean that they will no longer have the right to care, but that it will become a provision. It would be a pleasure for you to tell that story, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u15	Mr. Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u16	No, that's total bullshit. We are in favour of the right to care for all medically necessary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u17	I liked the story of Mr. Hijink, which is also taken from the heart. But I'm a little annoyed that Mr. Hijink always leaves out the way he pays things, because he leaves out the fact that he also abolishes the care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u19	Yeah, you gotta tell me that, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u20	I'd be happy to. I'd be happy to! Mrs Agema, we are buying the care...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u21	But all those people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u22	Mr. Hijink. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u23	... what Mr. Hijink is talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u24	Yes, I'm going to answer, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u25	...who are all going to benefit from abolishing one's own risk, Mr. Hijink of the SP also loses their care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u26	If you're in favour of a system, a system in which the care premium depends on your income, if you don't pay a nominal premium, as we now have it from "what is it?" €1,200 a year for everyone but it makes income dependent, then you don't need a health care allowance anymore. Isn't that crystal clear? If your own risk is abolished, you pay depending on your income and according to your carrying capacity and you don't have an income, then you don't pay a care premium. It's as simple as that. So you don't need a care allowance anymore. That also saves a lot of bureaucracy, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u27	But Mr. Hijink always leaves that out in his story. That's an incredibly weak offer. If you constantly leave out the fact that, if you eliminate your own risk, you also abolish the care allowance for all those people, I find a huge weakness offer. I would say: say it more often in a contribution and let your group chairman say it for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u28	This is a bit of a silly argument, with all due respect, because if you have a low income and you wouldn't pay a care premium in the SP system because you don't have an income, then you don't need a care allowance anymore. It's as simple as that. And if you have a very high income, you pay a very high premium. That's how income-dependent works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u29	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u30	That's just a mistake!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u31	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u32	Yes, because the care allowance is intended to compensate for the care premium...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u33	Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u34	...and not to compensate for one's own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u35	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u36	So if you have a low income, then you certainly benefit from not abolishing your health care allowance. So the SP makes a huge selection from the wallet of all those low-income people, for whom the care allowance is a compensation of the care premium. You might wobble like that, but that's the full story of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u37	Mr Hijink's final reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u38	I don't know if Mrs. Agema is pretending not to understand or if she really doesn't understand, and I don't know what's worse. Let me explain something to you. We have two people. One's on welfare and the other's Shell's boss. Whoever's on welfare has no or almost no income. So he doesn't pay a health allowance. We'll eliminate our own risk. Yeah? Then Shell's boss comes. It has a huge income and pays a huge premium, but it doesn't have its own risk either, because that's what we want to get rid of. That's fair, that's income-dependent, and that's how you set up a solidarity system. I don't know exactly where Mrs Agema is going with this, but if you set it up that way, then you don't need a care allowance anymore, because the premium for people with very low incomes is very low or doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u40	That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u41	I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Agema, but not as an interrupter but as a speaker. Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have indeed understood very well, I say in the direction of Mr. Hijink. Some people just need that care allowance. You get it up to a certain income, up to about €33,000 a year. You're not getting it up there. So if that goes away in the SP's plans, you have a big problem. Mr. Chairman. Its own risk was once introduced as a brake effect. It would stop people from visiting the hospital or using medication. In itself this is a strange construction because the GP as gatekeeper already had this function. He caught whatever he could do. To get to the hospital in our country, you must pass the gatekeeper. The gatekeeper prescribes products that are only available on prescription. That's not up to you in our country. So the braking effect in our country is based on the general practitioner. His judgment is important and should be guiding. The general practitioner can also assess whether someone might become a sicker and more expensive patient if he or she does not send him or her to the specialist. It would therefore be better, if you want to increase the braking effect or less sick and expensive patients, to better guarantee the tasks of the general practitioner by better resting them and, for example, giving them more time per consultation, or to allow the general practitioner to perform more tasks that they can perform a lot cheaper than the specialist in the hospital. After weighing the GP, the gatekeeper, a second brake, i.e. its own risk, which quickly rises to €385 per insured person per year, you are no longer trying to reduce the cost of care in a pure way, but then you are in the process of overthrowing an important pillar of the Health Insurance Act, the solidarity between sick and non-sick, and to put people into a payment scheme in January. This discrepancy has been in the system since the introduction of the Health Insurance Act, with the no-claim scheme and its subsequent replacement by its own risk. Its own risk is not right; it is not right, but it is left intact for reasons of money. We also wonder if people have gone to hospital too often over the past five years. The answer is no, because there has been no concern for years and the hospital sector has to do with shrinking. However, its own risk has more than doubled over the past five years. There's no logical explanation for that, is there? Care costs are rising as a result of demographic developments, some inflation and some more expensive technology. The care itself isn't really getting more expensive. Ergo, since 2012, the billion-dollars have been flying around our ears year after year. The ageing population and the increasing number of chronically ill people who need treatment are the main cause of rising costs. So people who are sick also pay for the costs. That is far from solidarity. Two coalition parties saw this before the elections, and then promised to reduce their own risk by about €100. But the CDA and the Christian Union made their promise only for the stage. €100 was frozen off and a premium increase. That's the eternal cigar out of your own box, the gotsp that you supposedly can only turn on two buttons. We can go to the moon, dear people. We're the House of Representatives of the States General. Cut the flagrant bullshit! We can eliminate our own risk, if we want to. And there the shoe wrings; the coalition doesn't want to. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u43	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet puts a brake on the accumulation of own payments in healthcare. Older people and disabled people who receive long-term care are less self-paying for their care. If you depend on care and support via the municipality, you will pay one low rate from next year. There will also be a maximum of the own contribution you have to pay if you need a lot of medicine. The CDA is very pleased that with all these measures, the most vulnerable in our society are much less confronted with a massive accumulation of healthcare costs. These measures alone may give up to hundreds of euros a year to some households. People who need a lot of care, and who are often unable to claim income support, are helped with a lot of focus. That package of measures also includes the subject we are discussing today. This cabinet period is no longer increased the own risk in the care. Without this measure, its own risk would rise to €445 or perhaps even €460 at the end of this cabinet period. That's what we'll avoid with the bill we're discussing today. It is clear that the CDA strongly supports this bill, especially as it is only part of a broader package of measures that seriously reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. For me, the questions were adequately answered in the written round. I therefore have no supplementary questions to the Minister at the moment. I can, however, briefly comment on the amendments that have been tabled so far. The CDA will not support these SP amendments. As I have indicated, we are very pleased with the overall package of measures we agreed on in the government agreement, as it is very targeted to help the people who make the highest healthcare costs. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we have been able to deal with this bill so quickly, so that our own risk does not rise again next year. The CDA is therefore looking forward to the elaboration of the other measures of the government agreement that reduce healthcare costs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u45	You have a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u46	I would like to quote Mrs Van den Berg from her political leader, Mr Buma. He said before the election campaign: "The own risk is now very high. It's a very big problem. I can see that, too. People can't afford it." How does Mrs Van den Berg look at this when we see that nothing actually changes about the risk and it just remains €385?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u47	I have two things to say. Firstly, we have been able to prevent our own risk from rising further. As I said earlier: otherwise it would go towards the €460 at the end of the cabinet period. Secondly, I have just indicated that there are other things that we have brought in, which prevent the accumulation of healthcare costs. There is the €17.50 in the Wmo. We have also increased our own contribution for medicines to €250. In addition, the percentage with which you have to charge for your own contribution for the Wlz goes down. We say: we are looking at the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u48	The election campaign did not discuss a complete package. In the campaign, the debate after debate focused on the level of one's own risk. Your political leader, Mr Buma, has said time and time again that it must reduce its own risk because it is too high. He says here: "I hear from a lot of elderly people who can no longer afford their own risks. We gotta get that down. Together, we must show solidarity." The own risk has to be reduced, but it doesn't go down and it remains exactly the same. You have won votes with this promise and you have entered the Chamber with this promise as a group, but you are not making it happen. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u49	As I said, we have prevented our own risk from increasing further. You make a package of measures in a coalition agreement. On some points you would have preferred some more and other points you have just made. I have just mentioned the points that we have just raised. These are the maximation in the Wmo, the maximation of the own contribution for medicines at €250 and the percentage in the Wlz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u50	Mrs. Agema has a question. Mr. Hijink, we're doing interruptions in two, basically. That's the starting point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u51	Is that right? This is a legal procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u52	Yes. And I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u53	Yeah, but we usually do that in a 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u54	Yes. I'm pretty generous with interruptions. I now give you the floor. If Mr Hijink wishes to interrupt again, he may do so again, but we cannot do everything in fours, because you will be here at 1:00 this evening and I will have you with me at the end of the evening because it has taken so long. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u55	I can say, Mr President, that I do miss you occasionally in the debates. That debate with the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u56	It's totally mutual! Mrs. Agema for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u57	Yeah, okay. We were in the middle of an interruption. About some serious business. I blamed Mr. Hijink of the SP for half a truth, but I think half the truth of the CDA is actually great. I find it truly astonishing that Mrs Van den Berg here repeatedly says, on behalf of the CDA, 'we have prevented our own risk from rising', leaving out the fact that the premium is rising proportionally. What's that half-truth? And why didn't Mrs Van den Berg apologize for these flagrant lies in election time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u58	If you want to ensure that your own risk does not go any further, that does indeed mean that the nominal premium will increase somewhat. But 47% of people, if I am not mistaken, are at full risk. So they all benefit equally from the fact that their own risk does not increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u59	Worse than half a truth is if you go on. The whole amount not collected by not raising the own risk increases the nominal premium. It is really scandalous to say to all those people in election time 'we are going to do something about it' and then let you choose as CDA here and then just tell half a truth here and actually lie to people by saying: yes, but at least we have ensured that the risk does not rise. No, just be honest! It's just a pocket pocket. It's a cigar from its own box. It's just nothing happened. The CDA has done nothing with its electoral promises and has no further questions to the Minister. That's how it always grows with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u60	I think I can repeat what I just said. I do not know if that adds anything, but again, we are looking at the whole package of things that we have done in this area. Then we say: just for the weak, especially for the disabled, for the chronically ill, this saves hundreds of euros a year in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u61	The figures and the studies we have show that a large number of people do not use follow-up care. They are therefore referred to by the general practitioner, but do not go to the hospital. In a large part of those people, the cost of care is the reason why they do not take advantage of that care. Is Mrs Van den Berg also concerned about this large group of people avoiding care because of the costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u62	Yes, of course we are concerned when people who should actually accept care do not use it. I think it is also a very important task for the general practitioner to keep talking to people about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u63	That's good to hear. Then I assume that Mrs Van den Berg, like GroenLinks, also needs follow-up research to map out how that group has developed, because the latest figures we have are from 2013; that was a long time ago. In the best case scenario, the group that does not use hospital care may have become smaller, but for the same reason that group has grown ever larger. Does Mrs Van den Berg agree with me that we need to understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u64	Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u65	I would like to see specific proposals, but I think the CDA supports further research in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u66	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u67	Mr. Chairman. Its own risk has increased considerably in recent years. I took another look at the states. About ten years ago, in 2008, we were talking about €150. That was €155, €160 and €170. Thus it increased, but often with modest amounts. But it really went up quite a bit in 2012. This was then agreed as a result of an emergency measure taken by the so-called Kunduz agreement. This increase was widely said at the time: it is necessary because a great deal of money is needed quickly to put public finances in order. That is understandable in those circumstances, but the SGP does think that you should be careful that emergency measures to put finances in order do not simply become structural. We are also waiting for the famous quarter of Kok to come back. We have so slowly given up on that hope, but this is even more recent, so who knows what might happen? We therefore believe that we have a duty to see whether emergency measures can be reversed if there is more financial space. That's all the more so because otherwise you run the risk of people avoiding care. Several speakers have already mentioned this evening that reports have always shown this to be the case, although there is a slight difference of opinion as to the extent to which this is taking place. Moreover, these investigations also show that there is no objection to a risk of its own as such, that it is considered that it should necessarily be zero. That's what I notice in our constituency. That is also what we stand for as a SGP. A certain own risk doesn't have to be wrong, but the height is now the jumping point. The cabinet now proposes to freeze the level of the own risk for the next cabinet period at €385 per insured person per year. Let me also say generously: we like that step taken, because when you look back, you see that if you don't arrange it, it just goes up every year. Honesty also commands you to say that. So I think it is a serious measure to at least freeze it for the next few years. We appreciate that, and we support it. However, we have promised the electorate in our own electoral programme that we will commit ourselves to reducing our own risk by €100. It was our promise to the electorate that we would make a strong commitment to that. That's what I stand for. I have therefore also looked at how I could table an amendment which also provides proper cover for this. Politics is ultimately also choosing; others have taken the example of dividend taxation. We would like to seek that coverage in refraining from further raising the childcare allowance as of 1 January 2019. That's where almost 250 million goes again. We also want to end the childcare allowance for those who have an income of more than one tonne. That also brings in the necessary money. With such measures, we would like to finance less of our own risk of €100 a year. We also think this is right, because we see that the child care allowance has risen very much over time. Also, people with higher care costs are relatively often earners, because one of the partners is chronically ill or disabled. I also mention carers, parents of children with disabilities and foster homes. They could also be aimed at relief. Hence the choice of cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u68	I'm from the generation "A smart girl is prepared for her future." However, I would like to know from Mr Van der Staaij what this means for parents who both want to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u69	This means that the paid hourly rate for childcare does not increase from €7.45 to €8.02 per hour. That is the real consequence. However, as their own risk has increased, the childcare allowance standard has also increased. Fiscally, there is also a strong incentive for two-earers in all kinds of ways. So our concern is not that this group thinks: if it doesn't happen that extra money will go to childcare again, we are really going to stop working. I don't think it affects freedom of choice in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u70	We also have the group of parents who can make the money for childcare less easy. I would like to hear a reflection on that from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u71	Yes, but I do not believe that putting another 250 million in this measure is the tool to keep it going for those parents. I haven't seen any analysis of that. It is more of a political choice that is made. The aim is to provide additional support for childcare in this way. There are also quality requirements for childcare, which can make it more expensive. Such considerations play a role in this. Once again, politics is choosing. We choose to redeem our election promise and opt for that €100 less own risk, because it is more needed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u72	I wonder if Mr. Van der Staaij agrees with me that this is a very sad and wonderful cover. If you're on an income of one and a half modes and the woman works three days, earning her $1,000, what's she lost to child care? $600 or something? Then she makes €400 a month and she has to go to work three days a week for that. And now Mr. Van der Staaij is going to catch these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u73	Well, you don't take those people, because they're gonna get $100 less of their own risk, so you're gonna help them in a different way. But again, if you look at the states of raising the childcare allowance, you can see that it has just gone up explosively in recent years. What we are doing is not putting another 250 million into it. If the PVV does, that is the choice of the PVV, but each party makes its own choice. This is the proposal we are making. If you disagree, that's your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u74	Has Mr. Van der Staaij ever worked three days a week for $400 a month?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u75	I don't see the relevance of these kinds of questions. I give a clear reason why we would rather put the 250 million in this rather than increase the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u76	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u77	Mr Van der Staaij continued his speech. You asked two questions, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u78	Mr. President, you may be a little more accommodating. I thought you said it was a very short question. They weren't endless introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u79	They were short questions; that's true. You're right about that. Well, let's go, a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u80	I'm really gonna have to chew on this. So much money gets thrown over the beam. There are billions going to the European Union and billions to development aid. Mass immigration costs billions. And then the SGP just grabs women who work and earn so little. That's a very sad group to catch. That says so much about the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u81	Well, this says a lot about the PVV. It is again honking honking without proper plans that they want to finance it with, I would say. But maybe they'll come. We'll just wait and see. But it is absolutely not the case that we are creating a serious situation here for people who really were waiting for those few dimes per hour extra for the childcare allowance. We would rather help these same households with the same money to work towards reducing their own risk. I hope the PVV can still be an ally in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u82	This point has been clearly changed. Mr Van der Staaij continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u83	Then I have one final point. What struck me at the point of the own risk was that there has also been the necessary care avoidance and, I suppose, is still because people do not go to the general practitioner, because they believe that it is also under their own risk. This is, of course, very regrettable, because the general practitioner visit does not fall within its own risk. A number of years ago, that was also said in this Chamber. A motion for a resolution was tabled and adopted to the effect that the cabinet should also provide additional information on what is and is not covered by that risk, so that unnecessary care avoidance is avoided. My question to the Minister is also whether he is aware of the fact that this reputation has already improved. If not, will he still promote greater awareness of what is and is not at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about our own risk here today. About 1.5 million people avoid caring because their own risks are too high. What does that mean? This means that 1.5 million people expose themselves to health risks, because they often just don't want to pay it. That's terrifying. What does the government do with that given? She's looking the other way. She points out a study by NIVEL showing that the number of care avoidrs has not increased after increasing their own risk. But so what that the number of care avoiders has not increased. The point is that 1.5 million people do that at all, and that is too much. Why is the investigation of TNS NIPO not mentioned anywhere in the government's letter on care avoidance? Why is it kept a bit shady by mentioning only the aforementioned quote from the NIVEL study? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Does the Minister know these facts? Does he know the investigation of TNS NIPO? Why wouldn't the 1.5 million be a legitimate figure? According to the Minister in the Netherlands, how many care avoidrs are there because of their own risk? If he doesn't know that, would he be willing to investigate that properly for once? Is he willing to look at the various sub-groups in that study as well? Because care avoidance due to a high risk might well occur relatively more often in people from the low socio-economic class, or in ordinary Dutch: poor people or people with different origins. Then we also know which groups are unduly affected by their own risk. Because that's relevant information. I assume the Minister agrees with me. Being sick is not a choice. Thank God you get to vote when you're sick. You will then be looking diligently for a party that stands up for you, parties that are on the electoral program that want to take a low risk of their own or that they want to abolish it. That's how you got out of the CDA or the Christian Union. The CDA wanted to reduce its own risk by €105. The Christian Union wanted to lower it by €100. But unfortunately, the CDA and the Christian Union have not been able to live up to that. Before the election, they both said the risk had to be reduced. After the elections, once they were in power, of course they just didn't. The reduction of one's own risk is off the table. The own risk remains €385 per person. Mr. Chairman. This makes a voice on the CDA and a voice on the Christian Union a high-risk voice. That feels unfair. I think it would be a good idea for the CDA and the Christian Union to be honest about this, to admit that we have deceived you. "He who lives honestly has his incorruptibility as a guide. Those who are unreliable will perish from their dishonesty," I say to the CDA. I say to the Christian Union: 'We must not love with the mouth, with words, but with deeds'. Mr. Chairman. But what does the government do? The government's using some kind of sales trick. She pretends it's a good thing that the risk is €385. The government says to the Dutch: you are lucky that it is €385, because we make sure that their own risk does not get much higher. Isn't that a very strange argument? It's about the care, so let's use a medical metaphor. Imagine a patient with severe pain, a pain that gets worse every year. The patient can't stand it any longer and goes to the doctor. The doctor says to him: I can't take away your pain, but I can't regret it, because I can help you; I can make sure your pain doesn't get worse. Is the patient happy? The patient then says: why do you give 1.6 billion development aid to large multinationals in the form of the abolition of the dividend tax? That can save you a lot of pain. The answer is extremely vague. Does the patient get the impression that he's dealing with some kind of quack? That is what the government does with its own risk: it does not take away the pain but, under opposition pressure, only ensures that the pain does not increase. That looks like quack policy, especially when you consider that the costs of not increasing one's own risk are largely returned to the citizens. To pay it, the premium increases by €34 per year. Mr. Chairman. Honesty commands me to say that the present government is not solely responsible. Listen to and shudder at how things went with building up one's own risk. In 2008 we had the dramatic introduction of the own risk by the PvdA, the CDA and the Christian Union, as previously recalled: €150. 2009: a quiet increase to €155, by the PvdA, the CDA and the Christian Union. 2010: an increase to €165, by the PvdA, the CDA and again the Christian Union. In 2011 an increase to €170 by the VVD and the CDA, with tolerance from the PVV. In 2012: an increase to €220, i.e. €50, by the VVD and the CDA, with tolerance support from the PVV. In 2013 we got a mega increase. We were in the middle of the crisis. Money had to be raised. This is the easiest and fastest thing to do with the people, so there was a huge increase to €350 by the VVD and the CDA, with special support from GroenLinks, D66 and ChristianUnion through the so-called Kunduz agreement. In 2014, we are almost there: an increase to €360, by the PvdA and the VVD. In 2015: €375, by the PvdA and the VVD. In 2016: €385, again by the PvdA and the VVD. In 2017 and 2018 there is no increase for the first time. What a downward trend would be nice, so we can bet that it will be less. But that's a real utopia. The government plans to freeze its own risk until 2021 at €385. After that it will probably jump up sharply, to about €450 or €460. Mr. Chairman. How many people actually have to do with their own risk? 84% of all insured persons, around 12 million Dutch. Almost half of the insured persons meet their own risk of €385. That's about 7 million adult Dutch people, every year. In addition to the towering care premium, this also amounts to an additional €385 per person per year. 20% of the people, according to research, have a payment scheme with their health insurance provider and are in debt. At low incomes, that's even 30%. Many people are driven into debt in this way, often a hopeless situation with all kinds of additional costs that put you even further in the corner. This speech I have made this evening is therefore a cry of despair: finally stop that too much of your own risk. If you do not want to abolish it, then at least reduce it considerably. Also, the TNS NIPO research suggests: lower it to just over €200 and then freeze it on that amount. Now that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u86	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a proposal to leave the own risk unchanged until 2021. That agreement is set out in the coalition agreement and my group agrees with it. The own risk will remain €350 and will not increase further in the coming years. So this gives clarity to people who need care. That clarity is also important for the granting of the settlement fee in October of this year and for the fixing of the nominal premium, which health insurance companies will publish in November. The coalition parties made the agreement not to increase their own risk further in order to reduce the accumulation of their own costs in healthcare. In this way, it will prevent its own risk from rising to €445 in 2021. It has already been said that freezing one's own risk is, of course, not the only measure taken by the Cabinet to reduce the accumulation of own contributions. Work is also under way to reduce the own contribution for people receiving long-term care and to provide a maximum payment for medicines. The premium and its own risk are communicating vessels. During a previous discussion on freezing the own risk for this year, it was discussed again today about a cigar from its own box. By reducing the risk, the premium increases slightly. But of course there is also an important difference, because the basic insurance premium pays everyone, young or old, sick or healthy, regardless of the amount of care that that person uses. This measure will thus increase the premium slightly, but will reduce the costs for those who need a lot of care and fulfil their own risk. This is estimated to account for 47% of the people taking up their own risk and applies to both people with and without a care allowance. So it stays intact as well. Without this measure, its own risk would have increased by €60 in 2021. As a result of this measure, people who need little care pay for the costs of people who need more care. We believe that this is a measure of solidarity. D66 believes that it is also justified to say that this is also a matter of course because, on the one hand, it makes people aware of the cost of care and thus prevents unnecessary use of care. Of course there is more to be said about this and, on the other hand, it makes an important contribution to the overall cost of care. In this way, the premium can also remain lower. I would just like to comment on raising awareness of the cost of care. It's always said here: when the doctor tells you to go to the hospital, you go. Yeah, of course you're going. But there are also a lot of people who come to the general practitioner and use medicines, for example someone who has diabetes. That person would have been very much helped with a different lifestyle. The GP is also very good for this: to help people. Here is the incentive for people to say: well, maybe with a change in my lifestyle I can avoid having to take insulin or other medication. We can see that, and that's exactly what you want. That is why we are looking at other measures to promote this. That is also to be aware of the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u88	I fully agree with Mrs Dijkstra when she says that we should also look at alternatives. GroenLinks is also a strong supporter of lifestyle medicine and, where possible, does not opt for the medical route. However, it may be that a general practitioner estimates that it is wiser to go to the hospital. Now research shows that some of the patients, if the doctor's opinion has been there and there is a reference, choose not to go to the hospital because of the cost of care. Apart from those desirable alternatives, which I also support, I would like to ask Mrs Dijkstra whether she is also concerned about the people who, by referring to the general practitioner, choose not to go to hospital because of the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u89	In reply to Mrs Ellemeet, I say that we have, of course, talked about this more often in this Chamber. I have also said many times that I think it is very important, but that I also see a very important role for the general practitioner there to convince people that they really need to do this. Examples then come along that you visit a medical specialist, which costs €500 so that you lose your own risk in one blow. But if you have to go to that specialist a second time, you don't pay any more and then €1,000 has already been spent. Those are aspects that we should also look at. There is something else: there is now a lot happening in hospitals which could actually be done by the GP. That is the substitution that we are very clearly committed to. So you have to look at it from all sides. What we want is to keep people as close to the general practitioner as possible, but also to make sure that people are aware of their own role in keeping the costs of care low. This has been a measure for D66 which we have never fought against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u90	I also support all the policy options mentioned by Mrs Dijkstra: substitution, as far as possible by the general practitioner, alternatives where possible. But I'd like to look at it mostly from the patient's point of view. If the GP states competently and competently "it is desirable for you to go to the hospital," we will have to assume that that is the best advice in those circumstances. For those people, it's important that they don't let the cost of care interfere. Research shows that this is the case for some people now. That is quite a substantial group: 27% according to the latest figures we have. I do not hear Mrs Dijkstra reply to that. My question is about those people with a referral from the general practitioner, who are quite capable of giving the right judgment. Does Mrs Dijkstra, together with GroenLinks, also worry about the group that avoids care when that is really undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u91	Mrs Ellemeet is actually asking the same question again, because she does not think I have answered it. I have to disappoint her, because I believe that it is also a matter between a general practitioner and a patient that the patient is convinced. If people do not have the money, then of course there are facilities at municipal level where people can go. That is also one of the aspects. I have often asked for this: that much more attention be paid to these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u92	Very briefly, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u93	I am genuinely concerned about this answer. If the GP thinks it's wise that someone should go to the hospital and that person can't afford it, it can't be that we have to look at other facilities, perhaps at the municipality, so that it does become affordable. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is obvious: if people need care and the general practitioner estimates that it is desirable to go to the hospital, care costs should not play any role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u94	But that's not something I'd like to say, that people shouldn't be worried about if they don't have the money. But we have all kinds of ways in which people can be helped. We have arrangements to support people. There are payment arrangements with health insurance companies when it comes to their own risk. It is a favourite subject for Mrs Agema that there are people who have already settled with their health insurance provider in January. I think it's very nice that there are health insurance companies that offer that, too. If you think "I usually fill my own risk, I want to be able to pay in installments in a year," that's what happens. So I do not think we disagree at all, but that we may differ in the direction of resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u95	I think we should be aware that eight out of ten general practitioners come across weekly that people avoid care. All pharmacists say, and that is what research shows: we do not come to pick up those medicines when they do need them, because they fear the cost of their own risk. And then Mrs. Dijkstra says... My question is, what is her message? Because she's actually saying that apparently the GP can't always be trusted in his judgment if he's referring to the hospital. You can't expect patients to have to check, as some kind of extra check on top of their GP, whether or not they're being referred?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u96	I do not recognize one word of what Mr Hijink is saying here. I don't remember saying something like that, and I don't have it on paper either. So I don't quite understand what he's saying about this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u97	At the heart of Mrs Dijkstra's speech is: if you want to counter an unjustified appeal to care, you need your own risk, so that people are aware that care costs money. I just don't understand that kind of reasoning at all. You don't have to explain that to a chronically ill person. You don't have to explain to someone who goes to the hospital for severe medical treatment that care costs money. What you do only do by keeping your own risk at €385 is to make people feel guilty because they take advantage of the care they are just entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u98	There's only one person here who talks people into debt, talking about "a fine on being sick" and about "you have to pay and it's your fault that it costs money." Let's face it: the whole system provides for healthy people to pay for sick people. Everyone here in the Netherlands is insured and everyone pays a premium. Everyone pays the health insurance premium, but also through your employer you pay a significant amount. The same applies to the very large group of people who never resort to care. They therefore pay for the group that sometimes have to pay out of their own debt, but sometimes also because they might be able to stay healthier or need less care because of a different lifestyle. But this is precisely a system of solidarity, in which we can also offer the people affected by a disease the best care there is. Those people can be sent to the hospital. And if someone is chronically ill and they have to resort to specialist care or whatever year after year, they will pay a small part of it and all the further costs will be incurred in our solidarity system. I think you're all ignoring that too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u99	Finally, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u100	Mrs Dijkstra talks about "the fine on being sick." Those were the words of your coalition colleague, Mr Segers, among others. He also talked about "a fine on being sick." That is exactly how people who are chronically ill, people who have a disability and people who already know on 1 January that their own risk is going to die. That has to do with guilt. This also has to do with the fact that when you appeal to care that you are just entitled to, there are parties here who say: do you ever wonder if that is really necessary? It has been said before: almost half of the Dutch are at risk. I mean, these are numbers and amounts that show that this is no longer an incident, but that it is just a structural looming error in this system. You acknowledge that, as I said to the Minister, because you are freezing your own risk now. You thus acknowledge that there is a limit to what you can ask of people. I would like to say that you also recognise that there is a fundamental error in one's own risk, because it is an unjustified accusation in the direction of people who rightly call on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u101	I think we fundamentally disagree about the solidarity in the system and about what you can ask of people who use it frequently and who have to make it; of course! This is an amount that is still to be paid. Let me be clear: as D66 we have never made promises about lifting or reducing our own risk, because we believe that this is a fair measure throughout the system, and a fair approach. It is not a question of people being aware that the GP might prescribe something to them when it could be otherwise, and that they should check with someone whether the correct diagnosis has been made or whether the reference has been made. No, what I'm talking about is why I very consciously mentioned this example, which is that it's often framed in such a way that it's just about those people. There is also a very large group of people who are best addressed in the way one uses the care. But there is another aspect: there are a lot of people who think that the general practitioner is under their own risk and who therefore avoid general practitioner care. So there are a lot of aspects that make me wonder: do people know enough about the general practitioner and the risk? I've asked you many times. And I will ask the Minister again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u102	I have just heard Mrs Dijkstra make one of the most shocking statements I have heard in this house in all these years. She said if you have diabetes, instead of going to a specialist, you should do something about your lifestyle. I'm so freaked out because diabetes kills me. If you have diabetes, you should be treated by a specialist and not just muddle with your lifestyle. Is Mrs Dijkstra prepared to apologize to all those people with diabetes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u103	Mrs Agema can put on her most pathetic voice, but I didn't say that diabetics shouldn't go to the specialist. I mentioned an example of the possibilities and said that if you have diabetes, you can also benefit from movement, healthy diet and a different lifestyle. This applies to a large group of people in the early stages. I have seen very nice examples where people at some point no longer have to handle the insulin syringe and get healthy and energy back through movement, healthy nutrition and a different lifestyle. There are a lot of different forms of diabetes, but one of those forms is very good to treat that way. It's very good that you're looking at that, too, and that the GP is talking to you about that. That is also happening in the speaking room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u104	Mrs Dijkstra blames me here for setting up a pathetic voice. I'm so incredibly angry, Mr. Chairman. I know so many people around me who are sick. They also look along and they hear that Mrs Dijkstra of D66 repeatedly says here that paying more or less for his own risk might be a connection with going to a specialist if you have diabetes, and that if you have a better lifestyle, then things will be a bit better with you. These people know that, but if you have diabetes, it's deadly. Then you have to stay year in, year out just under the supervision of a specialist. And then there shouldn't be someone from D66 in the Lower House who says that you care then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u105	Mr President, I suggest that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u106	...which falls under its own risk can be delayed by doing something about your lifestyle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u107	Mr President, if Mrs Agema doesn't want me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u108	Mrs. Agema is asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u109	She's on a long run. I really need to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u110	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u111	The thing she's putting me on is completely out of the question. I explained that, too. But she just repeats what she said at her first question. So she won't listen, but we're used to that. I don't care. I've indicated how I feel. I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u112	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u113	I do not know where Mrs Dijkstra gets this aggression, but I find it really shocking. You should rewind tonight's tape. Mrs Dijkstra has mentioned people with diabetes who may have to do something about their lifestyle rather than the specialist because of their own risk. Those are the words of Mrs Dijkstra. I'm so shocked, Mr. Chairman. There are so many people who are chronically ill and who have to be treated, who take their own risks every year and who do not have the income that Mrs Dijkstra and I have. I also visit a specialist regularly. I was lucky to have surgery twice last year. But if the account comes at its own risk, I can pay it with the room salary. But a lot of people with diabetes can't do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u114	Mr President, I shall continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u115	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u116	I wanted to say that none of this takes away the fact that I realize that €385 can be a large amount for some to pay in one go. There are health insurance companies that offer the possibility to pay in advance in instalments. If you think you're gonna take your own risk in advance, but if you don't, you're gonna get the amount back. I am curious to hear from the Minister whether this can be done by all insurers. It is also possible to apply for a payment scheme. People with the lowest incomes are met with the care allowance. That has been changed for a while in the debate on the interruptions. I will say this once more: the municipality can also meet people with high costs of care. This can be done for chronically ill, but also for people who have one-off high costs. In order to do so, we need to communicate clearly that these arrangements exist. I would like to know from the Minister whether that is a bit in order and how people can find out. Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have a system of solidarity and that solidarity can be put under pressure if the costs are increased by those who use little care. The further reduction of own risk also leads to higher premiums, income-related contributions or higher taxes. In my opinion, the balance sheet is adequately monitored in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u117	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Keeping our care affordable is very important for the Christian Union. This year we pay more than € 5,700 per person for care. The total cost of care in the Budgetary Framework Care comes to more than 70 billion euros, or 10% of our gross national product. Only a small part we pay through the nominal premium for the health insurance or through our own payments, such as our own risk. By far the bulk of the large sums I have just mentioned are paid through the income-dependent contribution through the employer, through the Wlz premium and through taxes. We don't notice much about that, but we do pay for the care together. So let me just say that our care is not free. It has to be paid on the left or right. We are willing to spend a lot on it, because good care is worth a lot to us, but we cannot spend money on care, for example, on education and social security. That is why we have a responsibility to see how we can prevent our healthcare costs from becoming priceless, both for those who are now dependent on care and for future generations. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has an ambitious agenda to further reduce the growth of healthcare expenditure, which had already been substantially flattened under the previous cabinet. By focusing on prevention, a national prevention agreement is being worked on by avoiding unnecessary care, by providing more care in the first place rather than in hospitals, by tackling regulatory pressure and waste, this cabinet is working hard to keep care affordable and at the same time improve it. I welcome the first major agreements on community care and medical specialist care, which include ambitious agreements. I look forward to the appointments made in the general practitioner's care and in the ggz. Can the Minister tell us anything about the progress? The bill we are discussing tonight is the first new bill from this cabinet on VWS grounds. With this bill, we will ensure that the own risk does not reach the €445 per year in 2021, but remains stable at €385, i.e. at the level of 2016, 2017 and 2018. This makes it possible for people who fulfil their own risk every year to make a difference. People who fail to meet their own risk face slightly higher costs of care. Because of the funding system in the Health Insurance Act, where public and private amounts must be in balance, keeping their own risk in the event of rising healthcare expenditure leads to a higher nominal premium. Low incomes are compensated for this by a higher health care allowance and often also by additional municipal schemes. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is keen to maintain solidarity in the Health Insurance Act. This means that we cannot simply increase the nominal premium in exchange for a lower mandatory own risk. So let us work together to curb the cost of care in order to control the increase in our own payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u119	I will introduce myself to the members of this committee in a moment, but you know that this is my first debate in this committee. In preparation, I went to look at some of the parties' websites, because of course I have not always followed the debates. Today I read on the ChristenUnion website: "Our own risk has become too high. People avoid care and chronically ill and disabled people have higher healthcare costs every year." And also from today's website: "The Christian Union wants its own risk reduced by €100." If I put this next to Mrs Dik's contribution tonight, how does she look at it? Of course we all want to curb the cost of care. Of course, we are aware of a responsibility in this area. But what she's saying now and what's on the Christian Union website, that's a big difference today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u120	In my view, two points on the Christian Union website are cited. First of all, the accumulation of own contributions that chronically ill and disabled people have to deal with: their own risk, their own contribution, their contributions. This cabinet wants to do something about that, too. We are talking about equalising one's own risk tonight, but that is not the only measure. We want a ceiling on the contribution for medicines. We will start with our own contribution to the Wmo, with our own contribution to the Long-Term Care Act. We are really doing all this with the aim of preventing the accumulation of all these different amounts. I think that's having an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u121	We just heard that from the CDA spokesperson, but we are talking today about the own risk bill, so I wanted to stick to that. I wonder: does Mrs Dik-Faber now look differently at her own findings that people avoid care because the costs are too high, because the own risk is too high?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u122	I'm really worried about people avoiding care. Let me just say here that many reports have been sent to the Chamber under the previous cabinet, stating that people do not avoid any concern. But I ask a doctor, he says: people do not use the care, while I refer to it. The research reality and practice of a general practitioner who has to deal with this on a daily basis therefore do not match. These are the concerns that I share, which, incidentally, have not been properly addressed by the previous cabinet, I would add. Indeed, our own risk has become too high. It is not for nothing that this cabinet has decided to maintain its own risk. I think this is a good measure to keep care affordable for people. Of course, I also hope that this will help to reduce the lack of care, which is indeed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u123	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u124	The Labour Party was in that previous cabinet, I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber was too polite to say so, but we have seen and acknowledged in recent years that people are avoiding care. That is why we have said in our election programme: let us abolish it. Mrs Dik-Faber knows the same costs and can now say: "Oh, let's not do this dividend tax because these multinationals can take care of themselves, and let's do what we promised, which is to reduce their own risk by €100. The debate is not over yet, so Mrs Dik-Faber still has a chance to take that position. We would, of course, appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u125	I note that under the Labour Party in the previous cabinet the own risk has risen from €350 to €385 and that this cabinet fixes €385 not only for 2018 but also for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u126	Mr. Hijink. We're gonna try to do interruptions in two, because I see someone else on this same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u127	If I have listened carefully, I have heard Mrs Dik-Faber say that people who are now fully fulfilling their own risk, as it is called, are making progress. I note that these people are paying the same risk as last year, while this proposal increases their premium by, I believe, €34. How can she insist that these people are making progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u128	Without intervention by this cabinet, its own risk would increase to €445. That's too high. We have said that people are not going to pay; we want to fix our own risk at €383. And you know what's so beautiful? It was the SP Group that tabled a motion for this for the year 2018. And the cabinet is doing it. We will perform a SP motion, not only for 2018, but also for subsequent years. So as far as I'm concerned, you must be very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u129	You've heard that very well. In my own contribution, I also said that this is a step better than what it was, but not enough. But that's not an answer to my question. I'm looking at what people had last year and what they have in the years to come. They now have €385 own risk and a certain amount of their premium. Next year it will be €34 more premium and its own risk will remain the same. Are these people moving forward or backwards, or are they staying the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u130	Those people are improving on the perspective they had, and also the remark that this cabinet not only addresses its own risk for the Health Insurance Act, but also, for example, its own contribution to the Wmo. We know that many people who carry out their own risk under the Health Insurance Act, the chronically ill and the disabled, also rely to a very large extent on the Wmo. That stacking is being handled. So for that group of people it really gets better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u131	For me, too, this is the first time I have debated it. At least, in this gremium, in this composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u132	I was just about to say. I've heard you before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u133	I am replacing Mr Kuzu, probably once, and perhaps a number of times. I do get the feeling that we're in a bit of a parliamentary cooking shop, because there's a lot going on. Every time there's a critical question, you get it right around your ears and then you're accused of doing something in the past. Well, that's gonna be a little tricky for me, 'cause, yeah, if you don't have a past, it's easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u134	Your question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u135	I was really surprised that Mrs Dik-Faber said that the government is investigating, and I assume that this will be valid and reliable. These investigations do not match reality at all, says Mrs Dik-Faber, because my reality is different. And I'm assuming that she assumes her own reality, because she puts it on her website. So through you, Mr President, I ask: can you tell me a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u136	The previous Minister of VWS has asked a number of times for investigations into the avoidance of care. Over and over again, those reports showed that there was no need to avoid care. That has always surprised me, to be honest, because I also have my network, general practitioners, patients, from which I hear that there is a lack of care. My group has repeatedly raised the question of how this can be done. Of course, I assume that these investigations have been carefully carried out and that those investigations are valid. At the same time, you also hear stories that there is a lack of care. That has been a reason for my group to fix its own risk, not to allow it to rise. That has been a reason for my group to look at the Wlz own contribution, at the cost of medicines, at the Wmo, at the Wlz et cetera. So let us hope that with all these measures we can take a step forward and put a stop to this care-avoidance, which I believe we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u137	It's extremely strange, isn't it? It's getting a little watered down now. I hear Mrs Dik-Faber say that she did not believe in the government's investigation and that that simply did not indicate the reality. At least it's special. The government spends money on renowned research agencies. They come with tests, results. They're reliable and valid. Then Mrs Dik-Faber says: we do not recognize this; we assume another reality. That reality is that there is a correlation, apparently, between the amount of the amount and the avoidance of care. If that is the case, then the conclusion is justified that one's own risk leads to a lack of care and one's own risk being reduced. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u138	I think it's a little bit of a word game. I think I made it very clear that investigations have been carried out. The studies did not show that there was a lack of care. I have also indicated that I am also confronted with stories of patients' organisations and general practitioners who say that there is a lack of care. My group is concerned about these noises. I've addressed it. They were included in the talks on the coalition agreement. Other parties have also done so and we have come to the conclusion that we are going to fix our own risk, for the affordability of care and for solidarity in our healthcare system. That is the measure we are discussing tonight. It is up to the Chamber to decide whether or not to agree to this. With this measure and all the measures I have just mentioned, I believe that this cabinet is taking a big step towards ensuring that care remains affordable for everyone. I don't know if we're gonna make it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u139	It's a very short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u140	Very briefly. It seems as if Mrs Dik-Faber is creating a new reality. A year and a half ago, the reality was that higher premiums lead to care avoidance. She's experienced it herself. That's what she's experiencing in her neighborhood. The reports didn't show that, but she was critical of that. Then she wrote on the website and in the election program: that should be down by about €100, because that is not good. Next, she says: that reality has changed completely again. I can't follow it anymore, and I don't understand how she can explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u141	It is a dream of each party to have its own electoral programme integrated into the coalition agreement. That didn't work. What did succeed is that we fix our own risk at that €385. If we had not, it would have gone towards the €450. And my group cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u142	The last thing Mrs Carla Dik-Faber said actually ties in with the point I wanted to make. I have listened carefully to her passionate defence of the coalition agreement on this point. I understand that, but I wonder if the Christian Union still thinks that it is too high now and that we should actually reduce it with that own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u143	It's either one or the other. If we reduce our own risk even further now, this will lead to a higher premium. This is the system used, partly because public and private spending on our healthcare system needs to be balanced. If we were to embrace the SGP Group's amendment, that would mean that people's premiums would increase. I don't know if that's the route the SGP is planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u144	That's not correct. Our amendment does not provide for an increase in contributions, but provides that the extra money that is now reserved for childcare is to be put into the reduction of one's own risk. Perhaps Mrs Dik-Faber could give this explanation a second thought as to whether it is not an attractive amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u145	The point remains that we in Europe, in particular, have agreed to pay our healthcare costs. This means that public and private payments should be in balance with each other. So the amendment cannot be implemented for that reason. I trust the Minister will explain this as well. A further reduction in the own risk will lead to an increase in the premium. On the left or right, care must be paid, partly from private money, partly from public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u146	I heard Mrs Dik rightly say that she is concerned about the signals she is getting about avoiding care. Indeed, I see that the Christian Union has made an effort to see how the accumulation of costs can remain manageable. We can think a little differently about that, but I see that effort. Mrs Dik is unnecessarily negative about all the reports and investigations that have been carried out, because the NIVEL report shows that 27% of people with referrals did not use them in 2013 and half of those 27% gave up the high costs as a reason. Does Mrs Dik agree with me that it is important to understand how these percentages are developing for the years after 2013, so that we know even better whether there is more or less a lack of care, so that we can act on them as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u147	I can imagine that we're keeping a close eye on those figures. I would just like to put the question to the Minister as to whether he sees any possibility of further mapping, so that once in a while, once in a while, we can put in the thermometer to determine what is going on with this care avoidance, and what are the measures to prevent care avoidance. Because if people need care, they should be able to appeal to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u148	Okay. Mrs Dik-Faber continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u149	Yeah, I'm ready for the tail of my speech. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is keen to maintain solidarity in the Health Insurance Act. This means that we cannot simply increase the nominal premium in exchange for a low mandatory own risk. So let us work together to curb the cost of care in order to control the increase in our own payments. Keeping one's own risk equal is only one of the measures taken by this cabinet to prevent the accumulation of own payments in care. Two weeks ago, the cabinet already presented plans to reduce its own contribution to the Wmo. Furthermore, the own contribution in the Wlz will be reduced and a ceiling will be set for own payments for medicines. Together, these measures will ensure that care costs for chronically ill and disabled people no longer increase unbridled but are finally slowed down. I look forward to the rapid introduction of these measures. For the Christian Union, affordability of care goes hand in hand with solidarity. We think it is normal that healthy people should contribute to the care of sick people and that people on higher incomes should pay a little more than those on low incomes. That is why fixing one's own risk is included in the coalition agreement. This bill regulates that and has our full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u150	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the present legislative proposal provides for the mandatory own risk to be frozen at €385 for the period 2019 to 2021. Earlier this was arranged for 2018. This is the elaboration of one of the measures in the coalition agreement to tackle the accumulation of own payments. The VVD therefore naturally supports this change of law. The handling of this bill is in line with the news recently presented that the government wants to introduce a subscription rate for the Wmo and to halve the capital income inclusion in long-term care. Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that people are not jumping to their own risk or to pay for a higher own risk. However, the VVD has always been clear about its own risk: this is important to ensure solidarity between healthy and ill. Of those who are ill, we ask for a small part of the costs to be paid themselves, and the rest we pay with each other, even if those costs are very high. That solidarity system would like to keep the VVD, but it is important to maintain its support for this. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands gets the same good care, whether you're rich or poor. But that good care does cost money. And left or right, it'll have to be paid. If you do not want to increase, or even eliminate, your own risk, it will simply come back through the premium. And if I thought outside this system for a moment and you didn't want to do this, that's what the taxpayer's gonna do. Mr. Chairman. The best remedy to keep your own risk and care premium low is to curb the increase in healthcare costs. The VVD is concerned about rising healthcare costs and hence the affordability of care. That is why we certainly need to look at other ways of reducing these rising costs of care in the coming years. Of course, the main agreements are already under way, but I would like to know from the Minister how he will take this further and deal with it in the coming period. Finally, Mr President. The VVD supports this bill, but we must continue to see how we keep care affordable by reducing the cost of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u152	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Agema for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u153	I find it so strange that the coalition parties keep the same kind of story. It's like they've been prepared the same way. I have a question about the subscription rate and the capital income adjustment, which I have heard all coalition parties talk about. These are mentioned in a total package by all four parties. Is the VVD familiar with the fact that the subscription rate sounds very good, but that only half of it is covered? And that the other half of the cover is apparently taken from sick people? And as far as the capital income adjustment is concerned, it is perfectly logical that it should be reversed. Because someone who lives in an institution doesn't have to pay more than someone who doesn't live in an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u154	To go into the latter: I think it is important to look at the accumulation of these costs. One of the VVD's wishes was indeed to halve the capital income addition in long-term care. You can say it didn't make any sense that there was. It's possible, but it was settled that way. Indeed, this addition now amounts to 8% of 4%. I'm happy about that. I don't think I have to hide that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u155	But you bring all four in the context of accumulation of care costs, but it's a capital income adjustment. I mean, you have care costs, you have your own contribution, you have your own payments, and you have the capital income adjustment. Isn't that a whole different category of expenses someone makes? It is perfectly logical that this addition should be reduced to the normal rate paid by all Dutch. But why do you mention it in the context of the accumulation of healthcare costs? The other question was whether you are familiar with the fact that the other point you all call the subscription rate, in terms of cost, is only half covered. Those municipalities are going to take the other half away from the sick again, of course. Why isn't the other half of the story told?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u156	If you use the capital income add-on, that ultimately means that you have to pay more for a Wlz institution, for example. As far as the subscription rate is concerned, I am particularly looking at the patient who makes use of it. I think it's important that this be reduced. I look at the overall picture that we are now dealing with, including for the municipalities, for which a considerable amount of accres is added through the Gemeentefonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u157	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u158	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, this is my first debate in the VWS committee. Perhaps I am getting ahead of myself, but I would like to thank colleagues for their cooperation, which we will undoubtedly get. Sometimes it will be constructive, sometimes critical. But I am confident that we are all working with the commitment to make the best care possible for the people in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. That is important, because our health and the health of our loved ones are the most important thing we have. When you get sick, everything else becomes irrelevant. At that point you need to be sure that you get the care you need and that you can go to a doctor who can see what's going on and who then does or prescribes what's good for you. That moment is the perfect time when you don't want to think about your wallet, about the costs. That is the ideal time when, for example, because you are out of a job or haven't been able to save money, you shouldn't doubt whether you should go to the doctor or whether you shouldn't look at it. That's a mistake we shouldn't let people make. But that's where it goes wrong with its own risk. We know colleagues have said that even though it is precisely the risk of some people scratching behind the ears. 'Cause of course, you can go to the GP without your own risk. But what if he says that extra research needs to be done? What if he says you have to go to the hospital and see a specialist? Or what if the doctor prescribes medicine? Well, then maybe you should pay. Money you don't have or it's hard to miss. Then some people still make the decision not to go to the doctor, not to go to the pharmacy and to put that referral aside. That should not be allowed, because healthy and healthy must not be considered financially. Fortunately, a lot of people agree on that. We can also find each other in this Chamber, because almost all parties have expressed their views on the concern they have about the rising cost of caring for people and what that means if you don't have it that wide. Let us be honest: many parties in the Chamber who have taken responsibility have once proposed to set up or increase their own risk. I just said that. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned this as an emergency measure when it was very difficult financially in our country. He also said: it's back to normal now. That is an opportunity to eliminate one's own risk. Many parties also used the last election campaign to say that we must either abolish it or reduce it, because we all recognise that it can be a barrier to access to healthcare. Mr. Chairman. We've got the economic wind. The state treasury is well filled again, we have a budget surplus, and the multinationals are rubbing their hands with the plans of this cabinet. I am actually very disappointed that this should now be my first debate in this committee, because underneath it you would think that they are going to abolish it or substantially reduce it. But instead of abolishing or lowering it, they're going to fixate it. This means that the own risk will be €385 in the coming years, while if you make other political choices, there will be real financial space to reduce your own risk. But the cabinet doesn't even do that a little bit. That's a huge missed opportunity. Mr. Chairman. That's why I have three questions for the cabinet. Does the Minister recognise that people are becoming insecure of their own risk? Does he recognise that there are people who are wondering whether they should still go to the doctor because they are afraid that they are in debt, who are not following follow-up investigations or referrals because they are simply afraid of the costs involved? My second question is this. I haven't known the Minister very long, but I know he's preparing carefully and he knows the reports. So I'm assuming he recognizes that threshold. If that is the case, if the Minister acknowledges that, why does the cabinet not choose to eliminate or at least substantially reduce that own risk? Finally, my final question: why is keeping one's own risk equal only regulated until 2021? This is the pride. There's financial space to lower it. There is even financial space to abolish it. The Cabinet doesn't do any of that. Then they're gonna fix it, but they're gonna fix it until 2021. After that, there's your own risk. It's a little "after us the flood" that the cabinet does here. But the sad thing is that this flood no longer affects this cabinet, but the people who are already struggling. That's a huge missed opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u159	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen, and welcome to this committee. This also applies to Mr Azarkan. I was not aware that he was a member of this committee for the first time. The Minister has requested a short suspension until 9:20 p.m. We shall then proceed with the first-term reply from the cabinet. I would like to announce that I will really keep the interruptions in two. It is legislation, and in the first term of the Chamber there were issues. So there was something more generous about it then, but with the Minister I will really keep it in two. Then I'm sure you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u160	We will continue with the first term of office. The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u161	Thank you, Mr President. The Cabinet considers it very important that care is affordable for everyone. We all contribute to care through taxes, premiums and own payments. The care and support in the Netherlands are therefore based to a large extent on solidarity of people who use little care with people who receive a lot of care. We believe it is important that care and support remain affordable for everyone. It is therefore necessary to take measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. The coalition agreement contains a whole series of measures. They have already passed the review in the first term. Freezing one's own risk is one of those many measures. I consider this measure to be a measure of solidarity. If we hadn't taken it, our own risk would increase by €60 in the period between now and 2021. That frostbite won't do that. Something else has to be done: the nominal premium will increase by €34. I explain that as: every healthy person contributes to everyone who is sick. I think that is solidarity and not, as Mr Hijink argued, reverse solidarity. Mr. Chairman. That was my general introduction. I'd like to walk through a few questions right now. The first question is Mrs Ellemeet's question on care avoidance. In other speeches, too, the question was raised as to whether we know enough about care avoiders. We have a NIVEL study from 2015, based on figures from 2013. The same research has been done in 2009. We have seen in these two studies that the percentage of care avoidrs has not actually changed. From that last NIVEL study I learned that people sometimes do not use follow-up care, for example because complaints pass on their own. There may also be ignorance. But it may also be that people out of fear don't take follow-up care. Of course, finance can also play a role. That is why the cabinet is taking a series of measures to reduce stacking, including freezing its own risk. But that's not what Mrs Ellemeet was about. She said, "Shouldn't we do that investigation again?" In fact, I would prefer to focus on measures to avoid unwanted care and increase its awareness. So if I get the choice between doing a repeat investigation or taking measures and monitoring, then I choose the latter. I would like to express the fact that the Cabinet considers it very important to prevent, to take control of, and to take the appropriate measures, which are measures that have an effect. At least at the moment there are two investigations going on that can help us. One is an investigation of, again, NIVEL. This looks at the level of knowledge of insured persons, for example with regard to the exception to their own risk: "Does general practitioner care fall under their own risk, yes or no? No, that's not one of them. But does everyone know that well enough?" This research is also about the use of the healthcare allowance and the possibility of distributed payments, which Mrs Dijkstra spoke about in her speech. That seems to me to be a good form of practical research on measures. I expect that research from NIVEL shortly after the summer break. I would like to have that first, because that can provide us with insight and can help us with the question of whether, for example, in the sphere of targeted communication, we should do some extra work not to the Chamber, but to the group concerned. In addition, the CPB is conducting an investigation into the effects of the compulsory own risk reinsurance in some municipal policies. That's the second investigation. That research will hopefully give us an insight into the differences in care use. I also consider this research to be important for the question of whether there is a lack of care and whether there is a great deal of unfamiliarity. I don't know exactly when the CPB is gonna complete that investigation, but I thought that was also in the course of this year. These are two examples of concrete research into care avoidance. Once again, I would like to show that care avoidance is a theme that has my full attention. It is a question of practical measures to control care avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u162	Fortunately, the Minister does not always have to choose and he is free to do several things at the same time. That's a luxury position he's in. I would also strongly recommend that he make use of this. He has been quoting from the NIVEL report for a while and it shows just how carefully you should read. Because the Minister indicates that the percentage of care avoiders did not increase between 2009 and 2013. If you read very precisely, you can see that the percentage that does not follow a reference has increased from 18% to 20% in 2009 to 27% in 2013. Half of those people indicated in 2013 that the costs are the reason why they did not use the referral. I would ask the Minister to pass on this information, which I believe is very relevant and insightful, and which forms the basis for the action that the Minister intends to take. It is very nice that the Minister supports the studies that are going on, but they are fundamentally different from the research of NIVEL, which provides insight into the avoidance of care and the non-use of follow-up care in relation to costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u163	When I said, "If I have a choice between two, I will choose sister," I thought: now Mrs Ellemeet will lean on the other leg. That's what I thought! I'm gonna rephrase it next time. I would like to do what I have just said first, namely to get an insight into the investigations that are going on. I expect them in the coming months, at least this year. On that basis, I will determine whether it is necessary to repeat that comprehensive study from 2009 and 2013 or whether we can focus on taking measures and monitoring those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u164	That would be a truly missed opportunity, because I think it is very important to have as much insight as possible into this problem, which we all say we do not want to. We don't want people avoiding care. And just the angle of the NIVEL report, which also looked at follow-up care, can be relevant, for the past few years and continuously to the coming years of this cabinet, to see if what we are doing is working. I sincerely hope that the measures will be sufficient, but I do think it is important that the Court has sufficient information and is able to make its opinion on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u165	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u166	I would like to add one more thing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u167	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u168	Very briefly. The examination of general practitioner care is or is not covered by its own risk; what is the picture of people? It is certainly also important, but that is fundamentally different from the follow-up. We can see from the figures, which are unfortunately already somewhat dated, that care does not play any part in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u169	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u170	The Minister wants to maintain that he is now looking first at the measures to prevent unwanted avoidance of care, on the basis of the two investigations that are under way. If I know those findings, I'd like to look further into what's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u171	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u172	Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to Mr Hijink's point of reverse solidarity. If people pay €60 more in 2021 without this bill and we finance €34 through the increase in the nominal premium in the same year in 2021, I really think that is a form of solidarity and not of reverse solidarity. So if we look at the world so differently, then so be it. I really think that "healthy" contributes to "sick." It's about keeping both in balance. I am proud of the theme "solidarity" in the Dutch healthcare system. I think it's worth keeping that. I actually commend the solidarity in this system. With this bill, we can keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u173	The minister already saw him coming, Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u174	The question is of course why then the amount of €385 is then used. If you start talking to doctors, pharmacists, patients and the majority of people outside on the street, it is widely recognised that this amount is too high. Then where does the Minister get the argument to say that this €385, that happened to be the case, and that happens to be the exact amount we have to put it on now, even though there are so many warnings that care is already being avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u175	I think Mr Hijink might know the answer to this question better than I do. The answer is: that is the outcome of a political agreement. Those €385 were also the own risk in recent years. It's fixed on that. That's what we're doing for the duration of this cabinet period. I do not believe that there are so many different views on any of the subjects as on the subject of 'own risk'. You can sort out all the election programs, and this is the outcome. It's just a political deal. Isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u176	That's amazing, isn't it? When you look at two parties of the coalition, you see that they say: €100 has to be taken off. Other parties, including the SP, continue. They say: you must eliminate your own risk. Wide in society is the call: do something to reduce one's own risk, because that cannot, that must remain the same. At the same time, only two multinationals are required to say that they want to have EUR 1.4 or 1.6 billion as a gift to shareholders and foreign governments, and then it suddenly becomes available. How can the Minister explain that to all those people, the whole society who is asking for a reduction in their own risk? They don't get that, but a multinational has to snap his fingers and the money is there. You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u177	The call in the society I hear is: how can we curb the cost of care? We all have to work very hard on this in the coming years on a multitude of fronts. The accumulation of care costs that we are talking about this evening is only one element of this. The main agreements and the pharmaceutical reimbursement system that we are yet to discuss, and the maximisation of the own contribution to medicines, are all elements that are part of our healthcare costs. We have, let me put it this way, the expensive duty to see how we can curb the cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u178	Mrs. Ploumen. No, Mr. Hijink, we're doing interruptions in half. That's what I announced. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u179	I think we all share that it's good to control the cost of care. This applies to costs in general. But surely it can't be the intention that that control be used by allowing people to keep avoiding care? That's a totally wrong incentive, isn't it? Managing care costs is fine. We all recognise that care is being avoided. We all think that's undesirable. In part, this can be solved by reducing the risk and yet the cabinet does not choose to do so. So I'm willing to go along with the government's reasoning, but it's not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u180	Actually, I thought she was pretty consistent. If you freeze your own risk, the costs will have to be fixed somewhere. That comes back to the nominal premium. That's a very balanced exercise. The own risk does not increase €60. That would happen if we were to increase costs and not freeze them in the years to come. In return, the nominal premium goes up €34. This contributes "healthy" to "sick." That is what I really like about this system. We all pay a little extra to freeze our own risk in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u181	The Minister and I are approaching each other in high-speed rail transport, because of course I agree with these principles. In fact, they reflect exactly the Labour Party's proposal: eliminate the own risk, which costs 4.5 billion, and increase income tax by 1%. That is also a matter of solidarity. Then everyone will contribute, and we will ensure that everyone is given the care he is entitled to and that everyone does not have to be afraid that he is in debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u182	The share of public expenditure in health care will then only increase and the own contribution will be limited. It is a balanced balance between public and private contributions. With this system we would like to continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u183	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u184	Mr President, a few more questions from Mr Hijink. How is it that the electoral promises of lowering or abolishing have not continued? I thought that was a bit of a general question. The question is how four parties come together and come to an agreement. The cabinet is taking a number of measures to reduce the cost of caring for people. The freezing of our own risk, which we are discussing today, is one of them. Then there is Mr Hijink's next question. Does the Minister consider that there is a significant reduction in the risk posed by this freeze? I think that the €60 that would otherwise have to be spent extra is actually a considerable amount. If you don't find that €60 a big amount, I hear it, but I find the difference between €385 today and €445 when doing nothing in 2021, so six tens, a substantial amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u185	I'm really getting a little tired of this creative accounting. That just happened with the coalition and now the minister is doing the same. I mentioned the example earlier. A person who now makes up his own risk will pay €385. He will still pay €385 next year, with a higher premium. Then the Minister can't insist that people are making progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u186	The freezing of one's own risk has to be paid for. These care costs are reflected in the growth of the nominal premium. That's the honest story. In every sentence in which that 60 occurs, I also call that 34. I don't think that's creative accounting. That is the clear and honest text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u187	It's creative accounting, though. There are plenty of opportunities to pay for the reduction or elimination of one's own risk. I myself made the proposal to pay it out of the dividend tax. Mrs Ploumen makes a proposal to pay it out of the tax. There are plenty of opportunities to reduce the risk of your own life without having to raise the premium. I don't think you should fool people. You shouldn't fool people. If you pay €385 now, you still pay it, plus an increased premium. So don't pretend these people are improving or winning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u188	But I also mentioned the balance between the public and private side of the system. We cannot just deposit infinite taxpayers' money into the compensation. So there's a limit to that. I am well aware that this does not apply to everyone, but that people are aware of the cost of care, I find an important theme, besides freezing that €385. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink also asked whether this €385 was a logical amount. Well, I don't believe it. You can only deduce it from last year's budget. In that sense, it is a logical amount. But I immediately acknowledge that you can look at that in different ways. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink also asked how the risk should help to control the cost of care. As I have just said, it makes people aware of the cost of care and also of the question of which healthcare provider has care with the best value for money. So without its own risk, the nominal premium would be much higher. And I think that awareness is an important element. Some amendments have been tabled by Mr Hijink. Now that he's mentioned them, I think it's okay to go into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u189	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u190	The first amendment I have before me is about replacing "€385" with "€285." I do not recommend that amendment, because it costs me a short while to calculate it, and that has to be paid out of the premium income. That's not what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u191	For the record, this was the amendment to item No. 13, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u192	Yes, this was the amendment in part No. 13, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u193	That amendment has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u194	Yes. I'm just gonna hop through it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u195	Mr Hijink has a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u196	The point is, of course, that we are trying to reduce our own risk, not to pay by increasing premiums, but also by looking at how to spend resources differently, namely by not abolishing this crazy dividend tax, which the Cabinet is so anxious to abolish. They're just political choices. It doesn't have to be automatic that it comes out of the bounty. You can simply make choices in that and the Minister can also make a different choice in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u197	Yeah, but he wasn't going to. The minister wasn't going to make another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u198	The amendment continues to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u199	Right. Then there is the amendment to item No. 10. This is about the role of the Court of Auditors. I would also advise against that amendment. The General Court has an independent constitutional authority to investigate the expenditure and revenue of the Kingdom. However, the Court of Auditors does not have the power to investigate the expenditure of insurers. These are private parties, who are allowed to spend their income freely within the legal framework. This is primarily about fulfilling the duty of care. We must also be able to compete for this. The NZa supervises and reports annually on the compliance of health insurers with their legal obligations. This research is always shared with the House of Representatives. The granting of powers to the Court of Auditors in the care sector would mean a system change from private law to public law. The cabinet sees no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u200	I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 10 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u201	I now have the amended amendment to item No. 11 which is intended to replace that printed under No. 7. That is not the purpose of introducing the freezing until 2021, but of perpetuating it indefinitely, so I say homely. I would also advise against this amendment, because if the cost of care increases and the share of one's own risk gets smaller and smaller, this will lead to a distortion of the relationship between what is at risk and the total cost, that is, what we collectively achieve. I therefore also advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u202	The amendment in part No. 11 is also dissuaded, but Mr Hijink has another question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u203	Yes, because this is a very illogical argument. The cabinet now chooses to do so, and the minister now chooses to release the link between the rising cost of care and the rising risk. So he makes that choice himself. Who is he to decide that this would not apply to another government, to another government? You can also make the assessment of how high your own risk should be for each cabinet period, if necessary per year. He's doing that himself in a temporary law now. So you can also reason: at the end of this period there will be a new coalition, a new government, and it can simply include in the law that it wants its own risk at a certain amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u204	That is actually a good answer: that a new cabinet has to make its own decision. We are doing this for the period up to 2021 and the new cabinet will then have to make its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u205	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u206	Yes, but he does choose to abandon the principle of the link between the rising cost of care and the rising risk of his own. We welcome that. We say just put it in the law so that it can apply to everyone in the future. If a government still wants to decide to introduce a new risk of its own, then it can do so. Then we in the SP, if we are in the government within now and a few years, can say: we are putting it at nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u207	Then I shall return to the first argument I have just mentioned. Structurally, this is too great an attack on the financial sustainability of care. In addition, the premium would increase proportionally. In the long term, this undermines solidarity within the system. Mr. Chairman. There were no questions for me in Mrs Agema's speech and Mrs van den Berg's. Mr Van der Staaij still had a question in my direction. If I have written it down correctly, does the Minister know whether awareness of what is at risk has improved? In the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, I say that NIVEL is currently conducting an investigation into the level of knowledge of groups insured on the exceptions to its own risk. I was just talking about this in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet. The results are expected after the summer and they go to your room. In addition, last year, a social media campaign was launched to increase the level of knowledge about these exceptions to their own risks. In recent years we have also gone to the country to provide information on its own risk, I say to Mr Van der Staaij. I am sure, because I myself walked in such a jacket on the market in The Hague. Mr Van der Staaij has also tabled an amendment. This is about reducing your own risk, with it going from €385 to €285. I would advise against that amendment. I cannot and will not finance a lower own risk from not letting the increase in the childcare allowance continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u208	The amendment in part No. 12 of the member Van der Staaij has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u209	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll take a closer look at my note. Mr Azarkan has asked if I know the research of TNS NIPO as well. I do not know exactly where to look to address Mr Azarkan, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u210	Mr Azarkan apologized, but he would like to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u211	That's what's gonna happen, Mr. Chairman. I know that research, but in this investigation of TNS NIPO a questionnaire was used among insured persons. However, this is not a sufficiently reliable method of investigation, because it does not check whether people's answers correspond to their actual behaviour. That is why the other research, of NIVEL, has been used, because it provides objective data such as health records and declaration data. That's a better method than just asking people what they think of their own risk. That is in response to Mr Azarkan's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u212	But Mrs Ellemeet has an enlightening question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u213	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. The Minister is talking about the NIVEL report, which would be a good basis with facts to build on. I agree with the Minister: there are very valuable things. Of course, it's information from a long time ago. The Minister shall use the report as a basis for his actions when answering written questions. I would like to urge the Minister once again to consider a follow-up investigation. NIVEL is asking for that, too. They indicate on page 51 that it should be further investigated what exactly the nature of the care avoidance is. Where did it come from? What are the causes? That needs to be looked at in more detail. It is precisely if we want to take effective action now, in which I support the Minister, that it is important that we have a good factual basis that is as up-to-date as possible. I would therefore ask the Minister once again to consider updating this information and, where possible, specifying it further, so that we can also take specific measures, in addition to providing information on general practitioners which is indeed important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u214	I would just like to stick to my own point of view, in the sense that I want to know first what the two ongoing tests give for results, so that on that basis I can determine whether further research is needed and, if so, what follow-up research is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u215	Mrs Ellemeet, very briefly, because you have asked before. You can try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u216	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. These investigations seem very important to me, but they really are of a different nature. So it's something else to know about the general practitioner care. We know that the first figures from the NIVEL report indicate that there is a problem with follow-up care. We should know more about that. It's important to update that data. That is really complementary to the studies that are already under way. So I believe that the Chamber is entitled to as complete a picture as possible with figures that are up-to-date so that we can also take seriously our role, our controlling role. So I would like to urge the Minister once again to enable the Chamber to help or update the Minister, on the basis of facts, where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u217	I appreciate that you want to help the Minister, but just give me a moment to look at the conclusions and the recommendations that are being made. Then I can based on newly acquired insights so that I don't just copy-paste this research from 2009 or 2013 and forward it to see if and what follow-up research is needed. Mr. Chairman. Just one more question. First, Mrs Dijkstra, who asked: can clients or insured persons pay out their own risk to all insurers? In the direction of Mrs Dijkstra, I would like to say: yes, all health insurance companies offer the opportunity to pay for their own risks. Mrs Dijkstra also asked which insurers have a scheme that allows people to pay out, and whether this can be done in advance, as a kind of no-claim. A number of insurance companies can do that. I understand that around 800 000 people make use of such schemes. Then another question from Mrs Dijkstra was whether these schemes, such as the distributed payment of one's own risk, were clearly communicated. I thought so, although of course it can vary from insurer to insurer. Insurers report that on their website if you take out a policy or if they send the account for their own risk. Again, NIVEL is currently investigating, on behalf of VWS, the knowledge of insured persons of compensation schemes, including these. Then of a very different order, but a good question from Mrs Dik-Faber: what is the state of play regarding the main agreements of the ggz and the general practitioner's services? That's work in progress. I would very much like to tell you before the summer holidays that both main agreements have been concluded, but it is still too early to make that communication. But it is being worked very hard and there are more than weekly talks on both main agreements. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mrs Ploumen's questions. The first question: does the Minister recognise that people are becoming uncertain about their own risk, and that they are not seeking follow-up care because of the costs? I don't know if I recognize that, but I understand perfectly well that people can become insecure of their own risk. That is why I am rushing to say that there are different compensation schemes, so that care is not possible. Think, for example, of the care allowance for low incomes. Think also of the spread of payments with insurers. And think of regulations that the municipalities know, such as special assistance. That's in response to the first question. Then there is the question: can we not eliminate or substantially reduce our own risk? If you eliminate your own risk, the premium will increase in the order of €250. I would not like such a premium increase, and we are also missing the element of awareness of costs. In fact, there are similar arguments for abolishing and substantially reducing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u218	I will try not to repeat it, but it seems to me that the people who are avoiding care are very much aware of the cost of care. So it's a bit unfair, isn't it? Let's just say that it's a little unfair to shift responsibility to people themselves? People really know that care is expensive and they think about it. There are just other choices to make. There are also choices to be made that can be heard in the future, so we will not be back with the fried pears in four years' time. I am really sorry that the Minister does not show any movement and does not show any space to address the concerns, not just mine but all those people. But there's still a chance. Various possibilities have been offered to reduce one's own risk; Mr Hijink also said so. It's a political choice. We do not agree on that. But it is really unfair that the people with the lowest incomes should bear enormous burdens. That can be very simple much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u219	I'm not gonna shove anything off. I consider the solidarity of our healthcare system to be extremely important. I have said quite specifically in this period of time what I think. People are now paying €60 less than if their own risk had increased, because with this bill we are freezing our own risk for the coming years. This requires a nominal premium increase of €34 in 2021. With that, the healthy people contribute a little extra to the sick people. That is a sign of solidarity in the system, and it can be cherished. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u220	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u221	Mr President, it was yet another passionate and moving debate, as we know when it comes to concern. That is why it is so very important that we also have facts that we can fall back on, because in the end that should be the basis for our discussion here. We can all give our own political and ideological explanation. Those facts, that's what I'm asking for. I find it very disappointing that the Minister does not want to accept that request. Maybe he'll come to his senses in the next ten minutes. Maybe. The miracles aren't over yet. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the own risk has increased by €235 over the last 10 years;]] [[Considering that research conducted by NIVEL has shown that the number of patients failing follow-up care has increased since 2010 and that 58% of these patients have remained the same or become worse;]] [[Whereas low-income patients significantly more often refrain from caring because they are aware of possible follow-up costs;]] [[considers it undesirable for patients to avoid care because of costs;]] [[considers that it is not sufficiently clear what the consequences are for low-income patients;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a follow-up study on the avoidance of follow-up care and the effect of its own risk of care avoidance in patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Agema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34929-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u222	Thank you, Mr President. We have received a lot of technical answers this evening to a major social problem, a problem which many people, especially chronically ill and people who are unlucky enough to get sick, face, namely their own risk. When I hear the Minister say 'we have to look at how we avoid unwanted care avoidance', I think: there are apparently examples of desired care avoidance as well. It seems to me that care avoidance by definition means that people who actually need care get out of the way for financial reasons. The Minister also talks about the amount of €385 and says: that is a political agreement; that is how we agreed. That while everyone says that doctors, pharmacists, patients, science, researchers, the amount is too high. There was a political agreement, but it has to go down. The CDA and the Christian Union promised in the campaign that their own risk would be reduced by at least €100. And that's not gonna happen, that's just not gonna happen. This is not enough for all those people, not only the voters of the parties who do not keep this agreement, but also all those people who in this way lose the confidence in politics that agreements are being kept and, if you promise that the risk can and must be reduced, you will do so. And that you do not exchange it for a deal with multinationals, to which EUR 1.4 to 1.6 billion is donated. That's what a lot of people in our country don't understand. I sincerely hope that the parties who made this promise will think again in the coming week and conclude that they still have the chance to deliver on that promise. The own risk can still be reduced by €100. We prefer to see it abolished, but this is the minimum that you should do in order to maintain the confidence of the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u223	Thank you. Mrs Agema of the PVV and Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA waive a second term. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u224	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. We have had a debate this evening which has highlighted the political choices that are being made around our own risk. In the first term, I indicated that we will support the legislative proposal because it is at least a step in the right direction that our own risk does not increase further. In addition, however, we would like to propose an amendment to the Chamber to reduce its own risk by €100, as we promised in our election programme. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to hear from the Minister whether my information from a while ago is correct that every €10 reduction in the own risk means that there is less EUR 30 million to be paid in healthcare payments. Part of it's still pumping money around now. On the one hand you have a higher risk of your own, but on the other hand you compensate for that again via the health care allowance. We see that our own risk is frozen for a number of years, but that it is open again for the future. That gives me a feeling that the current system is not ideal. Mr Hijink rightly pointed out that broad political parties felt that their own risks were too high. In it, studies also resonated among the population. Many said: we still understand a little over €200, but this is really too high. Perhaps this debate is too early for it, but I am looking for what can be a longer-term choice that can count on more stable support in Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u225	Thank you. Mrs Dijkstra will refrain from speaking. Mrs Dik-Faber, like Mrs De Vries. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u226	Mr President, I would very much like to take the floor, because we are still a long way from discussing this issue. The Minister and also a number of colleagues have reminded us that reducing our own risk automatically leads to an increase in the premium. But that is not automatism at all, that is a political choice. It's important that the people listening in know that. You can choose something else. Mr Hijink gave an example of this. Mr Van der Staaij gave an example of this. That was not my example, by the way, but it is his political choice. And I also gave an example of it. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet leaves all that behind and makes a different political choice. The Cabinet accepts that people avoid care because of the costs. They fix their own risk, but that's basically just ignoring care avoidance and the concerns that people have. That disappoints me. With Mr Van der Staaij, I hope that the cabinet will come to its senses, because, as far as I am concerned, the freezing of its own risk is equivalent to doing nothing. And doing nothing equals ignoring people's care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u227	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister needs a very short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u228	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care for the answers in second term; or one answer, if I have been paying attention. And one more motion gets a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u229	I could, but I had heard three more questions in it, Mr President. First, the motion in part No. 14, tabled by Mrs Ellemeet, "calls on the government to carry out a follow-up study on the avoidance of follow-up care and the impact of its own risk of care avoidance in patients." Although the issue of care does not have my full attention, I would nevertheless like to choose to conclude the studies that are currently under way, to take the conclusions to me and, on that basis, to determine how far they go. So I'm not in favour of this motion and I'm dissuading it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u230	The motion in part No. 14 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u231	Mr. Chairman. In Mr Hijink's speech, not so much was a question in my direction, but he felt that he had received a lot of technical answers. That's half of what I'd hoped for. The other half is arguing that the solidarity of the Dutch healthcare system is very important, that it should also be maintained and that working on that system is worth working on. So I had hoped that he would have tasted the passion for the existing system and the importance of maintaining solidarity in the Dutch healthcare system, but there is still work for me to do. Mr Van der Staaij asked: is it true that every €10 less at its own risk generates 30 million more expenditure on health care payments? I'm gonna have to check that sum for a second. In my opinion, 10 million less of your own risk is worth 10 million healthcare payments, but I'm going to put it right on paper for a while. Finally, towards Mrs Ploumen. "You can choose differently," she said. I fully acknowledge that. It's all political choices we make here. We consider the balance between public and private spending in the healthcare system to be very important. Mrs Ploumen concluded by saying "fixing is ignoring"; fixing one's own risk would be ignoring people who have to rely on care. I really disagree with that. I have once again argued this evening that freezing one's own risk and the growth of the nominal premium, the people who are healthy, contribute to the people who are sick. You cannot ask for this contribution indefinitely, but I think it calls for solidarity. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u232	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-28.u233	This law, the amendments and the motion tabled will be voted on next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for his answers, the colleagues for their contributions and the debate and the listeners for their interest.
