ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-5.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 12 April last, Kees Rijnvos, former senator for the CDA, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 10 June 1981 until 13 September 1983. Cornelis Johannes Rijnvos was born on 20 February 1931 in Standuiten, Noord-Brabant. Due to the outbreak of World War II, he could not finish primary school and went to work as a farm worker like his father, and also as a reinforcing steel braider. After winning an essay competition between the KRO and VARA on "industrialization and the worker," he began his further education with the support of the Catholic Workers' Union. He developed through self-study and obtained his motivated economy when he was 29 years old. He then began his studies in economics at the Catholic Economic University in Tilburg. He graduated in 1965 and obtained his PhD in economics five years later. In the meantime, Mr. Rijnvos worked as Chief of Labour at the Hollandse Kunstzijde Industrie in Breda from 1960 to 1966. From 1966 to 1968 he worked as a staff lecturer at the Bruijn Institute in Doorn, where he previously studied with the support of the Catholic Workers' Union itself. From 1968 to 1971 he was an employee of training and head of the Information Office of the Cooperative Central Boerenleenbank in Eindhoven. Subsequently, Mr Rijnvos worked as Deputy Head of the Economic Bureau at AMRO Bank. In 1975 he became professor of general economics and public finance at Erasmus University Rotterdam. From 1982 to 1986 he was dean of the legal faculty. Meanwhile, in 1988 he obtained his PhD once again, now at Erasmus University, in the philosophy of science. In the same year he became a member of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. After a year and a half at the WRR, Rijnvos became rector magnificus of Erasmus University Rotterdam. He stayed until 1994 and went with emeritate two years later. Mr Rijnvos' political career began on 10 June 1981 when he became a member of the First Chamber of the CDA. For two years, he remained a Member of Parliament. The reason for this relatively short membership was that the First Chamber had to be dissolved after the 1983 constitutional revision and elections took place again, for which he did not apply. In the two years of his membership, Rijnvos was the financial spokesman of the CDA group. He dealt mainly with tax and monetary matters. In his maiden speech on 6 October 1981 in the examination of the proposal to participate in the share capital in the Waterschapsbank, Mr Rijnvos said about the treatment in the First Chamber: "The CDA Group went further in examining the position of the Waterschapsbank than in the documents accompanying the draft law so far. That can more or less be expected of us. After all, a fundamental reflection on issues that concern us here is nevertheless consistent with the nature of our Chamber." The creative language of Mr Rijnvos was striking. During an interruption, he was once asked to confess colour to the present bill. Rijnvos then replied with a beautiful variant to a well-known proverb: "That would be too early. In political discussions one should never wet one's gunpowder." In a debate on the introduction of a currency with the nominal value of 50 guilders, which would be issued on the occasion of 200 years of continuous diplomatic relations between the Netherlands and the United States, he said that the Chamber was faced with the problem of 'cross or coin' in a very special way. He wondered whether the proposed 50 guilder coin would not have two characteristics which might not be compatible: legal tender on the one hand and commemorative coin on the other with a much higher value than 50 guilders on the other. He asked critical questions about a "so far unknown monetary construction in our country" and wondered whether one and the same coin on the cross side could be simply part of a monetary system and unique on the coin side as a commemoration of a unique event. "Can a tulip in a vase, completely equal to all the other tulips in that same vase really be unique, in a very honest way, without, as is very appropriate here, the known'money that is stupid, right makes what is crooked'?" In his reasoning he finally saw room for the dual character, the relative and the uniqueness of the coin. In addition to his academic and political career, Mr Rijnvos was active as Commissioner at various companies, editor-in-chief of the magazine Nieuw Europa and chairman of the Committee of Experts to harmonise the European banking legislation of the Federation Bancaire in Brussels. In 1993 he was awarded the Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany. In 1995 he received an honorary doctorate in the economics of Bratislava Economic University and in 1999 from the University of Bucharest. In 1998 he was appointed officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. Kees Rijnvos has hundreds of publications in the economic and monetary field in his name. After his emeritus in 1996, he focused his attention on theology and no longer on the economy. Early this year an essay of his hand appeared about Christian monotheism. In his very remarkable social, academic and political life, Mr Rijnvos set himself the goal of contributing to society "with a clear head and a good understanding." May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-5.u2	Thank you.
