ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	As usual on Tuesday, we shall begin with oral Question Time. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State in trade-K. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK, for his question on the message 'Human tests with exhaust gases'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, thank you. Yesterday we were spooked by a rather bizarre message. That was about tests of nitrogen dioxide on monkeys and humans. These tests would have been carried out by the European Research Association for Environment and Health in the Transport sector (EUGT). It is reported that they were paid by Volkswagen, BMW and Daimler, Mercedes. Mr. Chairman. This coverage was rather confusing on the DENK group. My first question is: what are these investigations and what purpose did they serve? But more importantly, what does the Secretary of State think about investigations being carried out in which toxic substances are administered to healthy people? Is that even allowed to be medically-ethical? How responsible is that? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Research Association for Environment and Health in the Transport sector. Who are they, anyway? What country is this institution even in? In the Netherlands it is not a well-known research institute. Is it co-financed from the Netherlands, Germany or perhaps with European taxpayers' money? Those are my first questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan said that he was shocked by this and that he thought: this is bizarre. I think many Dutch people will recognize themselves in that initial reaction, in the initial fear you have when you read that. Mr Azarkan asked a number of specific questions. What kind of research is this, and most of all, who are these? Let me deal with this first and then come back to a number of other questions. This is not a European research institute. This is a research institute of the German vehicle manufacturers Volkswagen, BMW and Daimler. In 2011 they founded this research association together with Bosch. It was actually intended to test the operation of exhaust gases on man and the environment. But it was a private foundation and that foundation has now been dissolved. There was no Dutch money in it either. Then: what are these tests? The studies carried out were concerned with the effects of the emissions of these companies' cars. The studies were conducted to show that it was less harmful. The aim of the companies was, of course, to continue to facilitate the sale of these types of cars. But again, it was a private foundation, which has not received any Dutch money either or as far as I have been able to find out German or European money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	In the years 2006 to 2012 this was also done by RIVM. It was paid for that at the time. It was just a commercial assignment that was carried out on behalf of these companies. What turned out to be? Twelve people were put in a big truck and they got a gas mask with that ambient air for an hour. It seems that RIVM is still conducting these kinds of investigations, but in Scotland. I read that somewhere. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Is it true that RIVM is still conducting these kinds of investigations? Why are we doing this research now in Scotland instead of in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	To begin with, it is not known to me that this is in Scotland, but if Mr Azarkan has read it somewhere, I would like to hear it from him, because then I can also find out more. It is true that RIVM is doing research. They still do. That's not for the foundation. I think it's very important to separate that. Why does RIVM research and what kind of research does it do? You actually want to know what effect the air we all breathe every day, when we go to work on a bike or when we are shopping, has on our health. You can of course monitor the people on the shopping street or the population of an entire city, but you actually want to be able to establish a very direct relationship between the air quality and the effects on health. That's why RIVM is doing research in a controlled setting where the image of that container comes from, by monitoring these people very well. I think it is very important to say that it is really just about ambient air. That's the air we always breathe. There is only very specific monitoring of what it does for people's health, so that we can pursue good policies to ensure their health. That's what RIVM is doing. There's no link to the foundation in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally. I am surprised that the Minister is saying this in this way, because Daimler says in his response in the strongest possible terms that it rejects this and that it goes against his principles. I would like to conclude by adding that medical-ethical discussion. I actually hear the Secretary of State say she agrees, while Daimler and Volkswagen apologized. But perhaps she can explain that; I ask through you, Mr President. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	You're right to call this. Two points. In particular, they have firmly distanced themselves from the research with monkeys that has been done. That was banned in Europe for 15 years, and yet they have carried it out in America. I am also very pleased that they have abandoned this in sharp terms. In research with people, of course, you have to be completely careful. That is why, fortunately, we also have very strict rules to check whether it is really necessary and whether there are better alternatives, and to set the conditions under which such an investigation may be carried out. Of those kind of review committees there are 23 in the Netherlands, plus a central review committee for human research. Also in the context of medicines sometimes it appears that you do not actually have a good alternative, which makes it necessary. But that committee is going to check whether that is the case. Parties with a commercial interest cannot simply conduct an investigation. That committee must give its consent, otherwise it must not be allowed to happen. Those are the rules in the Netherlands. These also apply, of course, to the research carried out by RIVM. But the aim of RIVM is really to understand the health effects, so that we can properly argue our air quality policy and the treatment of diseases and be able to base our research on scientific research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thanks for the answer. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	D66 is pleased to hear that such tests are no longer allowed, at least in Europe and therefore in the Netherlands. D66 is behind that, too. We do see that the commotion and the questions that have arisen mean that the importance of clean air is beginning to get through to people. People are more aware of the impact of air quality on people's health. We are therefore very indignant that these car manufacturers are still engaged in developing diesel engines of this kind, when we should actually go to electric or at least emission-free vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	Our question is therefore: how can the Netherlands ensure that car manufacturers focus much more on emission-free vehicles rather than testing which diesel might be a bit cleaner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	First of all, I fully share the desired direction of development that Mrs Van Eijs sketches. What can the Netherlands do about it? We have said in the coalition agreement that we are trying to get new electric vehicles on the Dutch market from now on. I think that such an arrangement gives companies a very clear incentive to use all the energy in their operations to develop electric vehicles, because they know that the market for other types is getting a lot smaller at some point. The more countries follow that example, the stronger that incentive will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	It is not new, of course, that harmful industries, whether it be the alcohol, tobacco, pesticides or in this case the car industry, are trying to influence policy or question with pseudo-scientific research. My question is really what influence this research has had, because that is what is happening here. And can the Secretary of State indicate how this type of research funded by the car industry affects European diesel policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	I understand what Mrs Kröger is trying to ask, but it is very difficult to answer that question specifically. I can only say a few general things about that. It is, of course, extremely important that decision-making, whether at national level, at European level or in other bodies, is based on factual information. Then you must also be able to assume that that factual information has been produced independently. In any case, when research is very much funded from one side, it must be clear that it has been financed by those parties. I cannot go into detail with Mrs Kröger on how that has been done in this case, with this investigation, but I do think that I share her view that at least in this way you should make transparent by which parties certain data are put forward so that politicians can take this into account in decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Kröger's second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	We would like to have some clarification as to the role of this research and this type of investigation by the car industry in the Dutch position and position with regard to diesel. And has there been any contact between this research institute and Dutch officials? What role has this type of research played in recent years, and how do we ensure and ensure that such research does not play an improper role in our policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	I understand what Mrs Kröger is trying to ask, but it is very difficult to answer that question specifically. I can only say a few general things about that. It is, of course, extremely important that decision-making, whether at national level, at European level or in other bodies, is based on factual information. Then you must also be able to assume that that factual information has been produced independently. In any case, when research is very much funded from one side, it must be clear that it has been financed by those parties. I cannot go into detail with Mrs Kröger on how that has been done in this case, with this investigation, but I do think that I share her view that at least in this way you should make transparent by which parties certain data are put forward so that politicians can take this into account in decision-making. The last two paragraphs with replies from the State Secretary are identical. The last one doesn't add up, here she gave another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
