ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	We shall continue with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget. We were working on the first term of office. We were almost with Mrs. Karabulut. It didn't work because of the lunch break, but it's gonna work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	I call Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP. I think she's carrying a present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the Foreign Affairs budget, the first one with Minister Blok. After the bizarre departure of Minister Zijlstra because of a double lie against the backdrop of a new cold war, this minister arrived in March this year. "Maybe the dullest minister ever," that's how it was written. Prime Minister Rutte would have played safe with his choice. Nothing could be further from the truth. Shortly after this minister took office, when he allowed himself to speak freely in the summer, it was anything but boring. "Surinam is a failed state," "multiculturally and peacefully living together is not gonna happen," "together connecting with strange people is impossible because of our genes." These statements, these ideas of the Minister, are not boring. Well, they're unworthy of a minister. It led to a motion of censure. A few months later, in October, the debate on the Dutch military support for jihadists, war criminals and allies of the Al-Qaeda in Syria followed. Because the Minister could not convince during this debate and continued to defend this totally failed, dangerous and illegal project, a new motion of censure followed. The second in eight months. Mr. Chairman. So it's definitely not a flying start, but we have to move on. The world doesn't stand still. On the contrary, developments are fast and, unfortunately, often in the wrong direction. Increasing repression and the dismantling of economic, democratic and constitutional achievements: that is the global trend. We have to take a stand against that. We must stand for human rights, always and everywhere, even if money can be earned. Does the Minister agree with me? Last week we discussed this extensively, during the debate on the Dutch human rights policy. As a result of this debate, I have tabled two amendments. They've been distributed. I'm sure we'll talk about that tomorrow. I look forward to the Minister's response to that. Mr. Chairman. I cannot deal with everything in this budget debate, but I would like to address three major issues, namely the horrific war in Yemen, the continuing occupation of Palestine and the colonial past of the Netherlands in Indonesia. First Yemen, where for almost four years there has been a horrible war. Under Saudi Arabia's leadership, war crimes are committed one after the other. Many tens of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees are the result. Al-Qaeda, who fights on the same side as Saudi Arabia and even actively cooperates with it, is now expanding its power in this country. This jihadist organization is the smiling third, as is often the case in the permanent wars in the Middle East. I ask the Minister to respond to this. An illegal blockade causes many more people to die. Humanitarian aid is being stopped. The United Nations warned that famine threatens 14 million Yemenis. It is the biggest crisis of the day, a crisis man-made. The fact that aid is not admitted to the country is more than a sad by-product of warfare. It is conscious policy of the coalition led by Saudi Arabia. Research shows that coalition countries bombed hundreds of farms and markets, as well as dozens of food stores. In Yemen, starvation is used as a weapon of war, on a large scale. Mr. Chairman. I'll get a portrait. One of the many victims of this war policy is Nusair. Nusair is 11 months old, and severely malnourished he is in the hospital in Hodeida. He's still alive, to the great happiness of Mother Suad. But a lot of other mothers were much less happy. Mr. Chairman. The minister showed in the UN Security Council earlier this year a photo of the Syrian girl Noor, to draw attention to seven devastating years of war in Syria. Perhaps the Minister could use Nusair's photo to strengthen his commitment to Yemen on a subsequent visit to the Security Council. That's why I'd like to hand over this portrait of this beautiful child to the Minister. In May this year, Resolution 2417 was adopted by the UN Security Council on a Dutch initiative, which allows sanctions to be imposed against individuals or entities who use hunger as a weapon, whose children are the victims. I call on the Minister to apply this wonderful Dutch initiative to the coalition led by Saudi Arabia, which is responsible for the starvation of the people of Yemen. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Despite the many war crimes and human rights violations, Saudi Arabia can continue to count on billions of euros of European weapons, billions of euros! It's weapons being dropped on these kids. Great Britain, France, Spain and other countries continue to fill their pockets with exports of military equipment. It is a gross scandal, this European accessory to war crimes and human rights violations in Yemen. It shows that the European criteria on arms exports are being violated. If we can make a lot of money, we will, unfortunately, be setting aside fine principles with ease. EU countries should not supply arms to a country if there is a clear risk of them being used in committing serious violations of international humanitarian law. It is also stated in the export criteria that Member States refuse an export licence for military goods which provokes or prolongs armed conflicts. If Europe is to maintain some credibility as a value community, these criteria must be respected. This can only be done through an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia and the other coalition countries that are destroying Yemen. I call on the Minister to commit himself to this. I am very pleased that I will make a proposal to this effect together with Mr Sjoerdsma, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Helvert and, I understand, Mr Voordewind, but it would be even better if the Minister said: of course, I am going to do so. Of course, it is also important that the Netherlands does not deliver anything that can be used by the coalition countries in the war in Yemen or for the blockade against that country. Is the Minister prepared to do so? A less far-reaching proposal, but also important, is the setting up of an independent committee to ensure that arms exports meet the European criteria. Such a committee could include, for example, lawyers and weapons experts. This proposal will not stop the war immediately, but it can help to ensure that countries do not get away with it if they once again fake that the delivery of bombs to Saudi Arabia can be tolerated. Can the Minister respond to this? Is he prepared to work at EU level for independent control of arms exports? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second topic. That is no less complicated, I believe: Israel and Palestine. Last summer, I was there with our team. What stands out in that region, in addition to all the beautiful and beautiful people I have met, who, despite the great problems, are committed to improvement and believe in it, is that there is a great deal of pessimism. Pessimism concerns the two-state solution, the solution which the cabinet also claims to work for. After more than 50 years of occupation, everything really shows that the Palestinians can whistle towards self-determination, towards their own state. Think of the illegal settlements that are constantly expanding. That goes hand in hand with the demolition of Palestinian buildings. Worse still, Israel has decided to demolish an entire village, the strategically located Khan al-Ahmar, and even deport its population, which is a war crime. On top of this are all kinds of repression and humiliation. In the direction of Gaza, where violence has re-emerged, the Israeli army regularly resorts to disproportionate and extremely deadly violence. The last time that happened on a large scale was last spring. Then more than 150 protesters were killed. This was rightly condemned by the UN and by many human rights organisations, but our minister remained silent, deafeningly silent. He first wanted to see an investigation into the violence and those responsible for it by Israel. The Minister's deadline for this investigation has long expired. Serious investigation isn't here. I therefore urge the Minister once again to condemn Israel's actions. Otherwise, the conclusion must be that only if shots are fired from the other side, from Gaza to Israel, will there be a condemnation by this minister. Is double standards here? Everything points to it, but I hope not. As if Israeli repression is not enough, the Palestinians are also subject to repression by their own leaders: by Hamas and the Palestinian Authority. Human Rights Watch recently wrote about this: random arrests for nothing more than expressing an opinion and even torture in prison are the order of the day. I expect the Minister to condemn this in very firm words and to insist in his contacts with the Palestinian Authority that they take good care of their own people. I have already mentioned it: optimism about the future of the Palestinians is far from satisfactory. One of the few exceptions concerns an initiative in Ireland to put a price tag on the Israeli occupation. In that country, the Senate has agreed to a law, which is being further developed, to restrict the import of products from illegal settlements. Such a ban on settlement trade is very logical for a number of reasons. It is an elaboration of the principle that an illegal situation, the settlements, should not be recognised and maintained. Importing these products to the EU.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Such a ban also makes sense, because the labelling, Van Ojik College, also talked about it, of products from occupied areas, which the EU has previously drawn up directives on, does not seem to work. After all, no one has ever seen a product in a supermarket with a label with the text: "made in occupied Palestinian territory' on it. Finally, a ban on trade with these settlements would be in line with EU law, which was rightly introduced after Russia took Crimea from Ukraine. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if he would look very closely at the legislation currently being drafted in Ireland. Does the Minister agree with me that continuing along this path is therefore critical of Israel, but never does serious action bring any prospect of peace? Finally, the colonial past of the Netherlands, specifically the many systematic and structural human rights violations and war crimes committed in Indonesia in the second half of the 1940s, one of the blackest pages of Dutch history. After a long legal process, an arrangement was made in 2013 for victims of Dutch violence. This concerns the widows of men executed by law. Since then, other relatives have reported themselves, such as the children of the executed. They also ask for satisfaction for very understandable reasons. Unlike widows, no settlement has been made for them. I ask the Minister why that is the case. Why not? How does their situation differ substantially from that of widows, for which there is a regulation? The government acknowledges that the action in the former colony was wrong and that the Netherlands was on the wrong side of history during that period. That is good, but if you look at the attitude of the State in processes resulting from this dark action of the Netherlands, you get a different impression. I call on the Minister to do the right thing and not to stand in the way of redress for victims of injustice. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. At the beginning of this debate, colleagues debated nationalism, patriotism, Dutch interest and other interests. I can only observe that we have human rights, human rights that are universal, that apply to all people and that your gender, your background, your ethnicity do not matter. That internationalism is a solution in which one should not neglect one's own population, which has been systematically done over the past few decades by the introduction of neoliberalism, in which everything was actually left to the market, resulting in new uncertainties for people, but that one takes care of one's own people and also defends human rights elsewhere. This, together with a different attitude and respect for the sovereignty of states, could provide a solution to the major problems we face. But I also know from experience from many conversations at home and abroad that fortunately there are a lot of groups and a lot of peoples who, despite these problems, are fighting for their self-determination, fighting for those guarantees and fighting for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	I think I agree with Mrs Karabulut on many points, but not with her systemic criticism, let me just mention it. She makes it seem as if the past decades have been terrible decades, and that was all because of neoliberalism, a multifaceted monster that no one has seen in this Chamber. I would like to ask her: what has happened to poverty over the past few decades? It's cut in half. What happened to countless diseases? They're gone. What happened to the number of girls and boys who went to school worldwide or got literate? That's skyhigh. So I would also like to ask Mrs Karabulut: do not throw that child away with the bath water. Look at what that internationalism, which you seem to be giving way to, has brought about! Because that has brought improbable progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr Sjoerdsma did not listen carefully, quite the contrary. I don't preach nationalism in any way. I said I stand here for internationalism. We need to stand up and take good care of our people and the others. These are people and universal human rights, unlike those who preach nationalism. What nationalism has brought us are wars and ethnic conflicts. That is certainly not the solution. But I don't see the solution that Macron and Merkel and you have. Of course, I'm not denying the progress that has been made. However, I fear that Mr Sjoerdsma is denying the disastrous consequences of global globalisation. Indeed, a great deal has gone well, but this globalisation has turned out very badly for large parts of the people around the world. While inequality has declined, inequalities within countries have increased. The wealthiest and most powerful have become even richer and more powerful. Democracy is under pressure. And there's a new nationalism blooming on it. You cannot solve that by simply saying "well, then we will continue with a European army. We will continue with the European project. National sovereignty must be put behind us." That's what I'm warning you about. And that also means that you have to take care of your own people first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	I don't think anyone's gonna argue with that last one. At the heart of Mrs Karabulut's speech, I repeat that, because that disappeared for a moment in her reply... was that neoliberalism is a sort of multifaceted, invisible monster that has caused all kinds of things. She had a whole argument, but ended up with this. It wasn't meant to be so much as a formal word at the end, but rather as a sort of: I'd like to give this to everyone. I really want to tell Mrs Karabulut the following. I see all the commas she puts in the wonderful growth we've been through. However, I do not think that giving it to a system that has worked as well as it has done. I don't know why the SP does that either, to be honest. Halfway through poverty. Women to school, now almost at the same level as men around the world. Improbable progress on the Millennium Development Goals and Sustainable Development Goals. And that is partly because we have transferred sovereignty; let me give it to you as my last, founding word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	Short response, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	My answer will be to Mr Sjoerdsma. I am not a neoliberal, Mr Sjoerdsma is. I am a socialist and I stand for the certainty of the majority rather than a few. Where did it go wrong? I can give you some examples. How is it that there are more and more homeless children in the Netherlands at the moment? How is it that millions of people are currently fleeing because of major conflicts, in which the West has a large share? How is it that in spite of the wealth that has grown, I agree with you, inequality has risen? How can it be that the extreme right is advancing all over Europe? I'm not saying I know it all best or I have a magic wand. But I do call on you to show some self-reflection and self-criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	Because running after Macron blindly doesn't offer the solution. Macron is also a boy of big business. And people are just tired of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	Let me just say one more thing. I think it's okay if Mrs Karabulut wants to portray me as a neoliberalist. That's gotta be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	It's up to her. That's fine, she's talking about her own words. But if Mrs Karabulut links trends in things like anti-Semitism and the like to my ability to have self-criticism, I would ask her to just take that back. Then we can talk about the content again. Because I find that, frankly, a little weird and not quite right for Mrs Karabulut either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr Sjoerdsma feels personally addressed and also personally responsible. That's what's good for him. I didn't make that clutch one-on-one; I'm just signaling a tendency. And I'll give you some explanations. I would suggest to Mr Sjoerdsma: perhaps you should be a bit more self-criticism about the fact that not everyone benefits sufficiently from the economic model you adhere to. That model therefore needs to be adapted. You can now see in practice where such a model can lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	This does not affect Mr Sjoerdsma's efforts, for example in the field of human rights. We often fight shoulder to shoulder there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mrs Karabulut and I often disagree. I think we are on the previous subject as well. But I'm always looking for areas that we can agree on. We agree on the enormous importance of human rights. We often disagree about the ways in which you can promote these human rights. But I have now made a proposal, along with some others, to see if we cannot promote these human rights in the following way. Can we not say to countries where there are serious human rights violations, but where, for example, we are building roads through the European Union, that if you continue with these kinds of things, i.e. with human rights violations or other things that go against fundamental policy, then we will build those roads somewhere else, where the government behaves better? Do I find Mrs Karabulut by my side with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	I find it interesting. Let me be clear first. It is inhumane to attach emergency aid to all kinds of political conditions; we will never be able to support that. Emergency aid must be provided anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	I'm not talking about emergency aid. I'm talking infrastructure projects, building roads, building tram lines. Could we put that somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	Without going into this particular example, I would like to say that I am very much in favour of making human rights more important in your foreign policy. So this could be for sure. But then I wonder why Mr Koopmans has agreed to a Turkey deal with which we are being held hostage by a major human rights violator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr President, that was not the question. Let's not get off the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	No, no, no. In my view, this is the same subject. And here's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	I'm trying to find areas where we can agree. I'm looking for it sincerely. We all consider human rights to be extremely important. I am now putting forward, not only with others, a means of promoting these human rights. For example, in a country where roads are built through the EU, serious human rights violations are also taking place. We propose to say in such a situation: let us then lay down those roads in another country where they do not violate those rights. So that might help. We may disagree on all the other things, but can we not agree on this, Mrs Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	I think it is very good that Mr Koopmans is making such an effort. But I said: I find it interesting, sure, but then we must be consistent. Then we have to do it on the whole foreign policy, not just when it suits the VVD. So, yeah, I definitely find this interesting. Hence my second question: why did we make this ugly deal with Turkey where they get billions through the EU? So yes, Mr. Koopmans, interesting and there are really points we can agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u25	We're not talking about the Turkey deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u26	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u27	That's what I want to talk about, and that's what we've been talking about. But it is now a very concrete proposal. Mrs Karabulut says: yes, I do not want to think about that until we agree on everything. But I'm really looking for agreement, Mrs. Karabulut. Can't we just take a moment to see what we agree on? This is such a cure!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u28	You tried, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u29	Why don't you want to take it seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u30	But, Mr. Koopmans, I didn't say that all these other things have to happen first. I've just asked for some consistency from you. And for the rest, I like it and I'm gonna look at it. Relax!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u32	A man and a woman, hand in hand. A German and a Frenchman, side by side at the place where the First World War ended 100 years ago. Macron and Merkel were standing there, in the light rain. And in everything they exuded: we know what peace has cost us and we also know how fragile our peace is. And they didn't just stand there as a former victim, former aggressor, now reconciled or united, as Macron himself said. They stood there as a symbol of determination: we do not allow ourselves to take away our peace, our rule of law, our freedom! Don't take it. Fervent nationalism was the driving force behind World War I. And Macron warned later that day: nationalism is the betrayal of patriotism. To set one's own interest in the world without having regard to the other leads to the destruction of what is the core of a nation, and these are its moral values. Mr President, that is a very sharp warning which should also be louder here in the Netherlands. Here, too, there are parties and politicians who hide behind nationalism, to give in to the others, to give in to European cooperation. That's about like playing with fire in the middle of an oil field. Mr. Chairman. If I could translate Macron's call into our foreign policy, I think we should defend and promote our interests and our values so well that the other would benefit. At the heart of the matter is what the European Union is: cooperation that makes us and others better. That also symbolized the image of Macron and Merkel last weekend. More than 60 years after the signing of the Treaty of Rome, the European Union will have to do more than ever. Not only because of Trump's image this week, a laughing Trump when Putin walked in, but also because of what he's doing. Whether we are talking about the United Nations erosion, the nuclear agreement with Iran, the INF treaty, it seems that its commitment to calling into question everything that is important for the European Union. That makes this alliance once so close more fragile than it ever was. And of course a Putin on our east flank, a Middle East far from stable and Erdogan in the southeast. This means that we must be stronger than ever, at a time when the unity within is more eroding than ever. More specifically, and I say this in the light of the little debate we have just had, this will mean that more Europe will be needed. More Europe will be needed. I will address four areas: foreign policy, energy, defence and asylum. Mr. Chairman. First of all, foreign policy. If you really want to make a fist on the world stage, a decisive European Union is more necessary than ever. In the current decision-making model of unanimity, one Member State with a veto can block everything; we saw that with Greece and Venezuela, with civilian missions in the Sahel and also with Hungary and Russia, I think. That model is out of date. We need to change our decision-making model. I saw the Prime Minister was open to that. Yesterday, this Minister for Foreign Affairs was also positive about this. I'd say good, go for it. Let us also ensure that we give our human rights policy abroad teeth, for example with European Magnitsky legislation to remove the most serious offenders from our territory and freeze their assets. I also say: go for it. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, European energy policy. But I will wait a moment, because I see Mr Koopmans at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u33	An informative question to Mr Sjoerdsma. He called for a majority vote in European foreign policy. This means that the Netherlands can also be more easily overvoted. How many areas does Mr Sjoerdsma see where we should do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u34	On foreign policy? Let me just be very specific and give you three examples. The first is in the area of human rights. In the UN Human Rights Council, the European Union failed to reach a declaration because one country blocked it. I think it would have been helpful for the Netherlands if that statement had been made. Another example, in the same field: Jerusalem. The Americans moved their embassy to Jerusalem, setting the region on fire, perhaps not just figuratively, and the European Union did not come to an explanation because one Member State interpreted Jerusalem's status differently from the rest. That is human rights; it is extremely important for the Netherlands, and for my group as well. The European Union had agreed to impose sanctions if Venezuela would take more power from the parliament or block the elections on its domestic territory. Then Greece is blocking sanctions legislation and we are making a mockery of it. Civil missions are also of great importance; capacity building in difficult states, in the Sahel. One country is blocking that mission in the Sahel because it wants another country to give up its blockade for a construction mission in Iraq. It makes us toothless, and more powerless than we should be at a time, as you also said, of Putin, Erdogan and an unpredictable Trump.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u35	A number of examples have now been mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma, but are these examples of a broader policy? Does he think that the Netherlands can always be overruled in Europe? Or does he say, no, only in these very specific cases? I just want to make it clear how much foreign policy would remain for the Netherlands in the vision of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u36	Short response, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u37	Yes, a brief response, but I'm going to answer the question a little longer than you want, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u38	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u39	Because, as far as I am concerned, this does not apply only to foreign policy. It also applies to our asylum policy. We will have to move towards a common European asylum policy. These are challenges that the Netherlands alone can formulate an answer to, but cannot deliver an answer. College Koopmans asks what does and what doesn't. I would say that it goes even wider than just the foreign policy that I am proposing. I refer to energy policy, Mr Van Ojik, as well as the Gas Directive, the Energy Union and the way in which we deal with Nord Stream 2. I would not be surprised if the European Commission was given important control and could decide that pipelines entering from outside the European Union must meet our conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u41	I am convinced that the transfer of powers of this kind will make us stronger and better defend our interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u42	Brief question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr Sjoerdsma's words on the rule of unanimity make it possible for Europe to speak with one voice and go into it with me as God's word in an elder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u44	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u45	Yes. You can't get much further!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u46	I think we should stop, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u47	It leads me to the next question. The PvdA is very much in favour of abandoning the unanimity rule in foreign policy in order to be more effective precisely in the areas of human rights and sanctions. Could I tempt Mr Sjoerdsma to make a proposal with me to this cabinet to commit himself to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u48	I'm always tempted to make good proposals. If that proposal is in line with what I have just said, but also yesterday in the Foreign Affairs Council, in which we discussed the fact sheet with the Commission's proposal, I am, of course, open to it. I think it's okay for us to step up. That was also my appeal to Minister Blok yesterday, but also to the Prime Minister in a sense. This cabinet indicates that it is open to this. The Minister told us yesterday after a constructive attitude. I know it's gonna be hard. I also know that what we decide here in this Chamber about what the cabinet wants does not have to be decisive, because in order to abolish a veto, you need, ironically, unanimity again. But I'm always willing to look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u49	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you. Then I'm going to study that, because I think it would be good if the Netherlands could take the lead in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at European energy policy. In part, I've already discussed that. At the moment a 1.225 kilometer long gas pipe is being built that connects Russia and Germany directly: Nord Stream 2. Some say it's a purely economic project. Now I have been the spokesman for Economic Affairs for a few weeks and perhaps I still have a little work to do on my knowledge, but I haven't discovered much about this project that is economic. It is undoubtedly a geopolitical project, and a project that makes us more vulnerable to Russia and more dependent on Russia. This minister has promised the Chamber that Ukraine must retain its role as a transit country. That is a plea that I wholeheartedly support. The Netherlands would consult Germany and the Commission for this. If this approach does not lead to success, the Netherlands will consider it, I quote: 'on further steps, such as supporting the proposed amendment to the Gas Directive'. In the meantime, we're six months away. I have the following questions for the Minister. How are the talks with Germany and the Commission progressing? Is it true that at the moment only Germany is in favour of this project? Can this project be stopped at all, given the far-reaching state of development? Is the Netherlands ready to support this amendment to the Gas Directive? Finally, is it true that the United States is threatening sanctions against companies associated with Nord Stream 2, including Gasunie and Shell? For I say it with some irony, would it not be impossible for our own companies to be countered geopolitically for their participation in a purely economic project? I cannot explain this to both committees, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Economic Affairs Committee. So I'd like a response from this minister on how he points out those steps taken by the United States. Mr. Chairman. Defense policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Van Ojik on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u53	Yeah, it was about energy, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u54	Then Mr. Van Ojik gets up automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u55	Well, not always, but in this case...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u56	I should have called it green foreign policy, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u57	... Mr. Sjoerdsma and I are all on the same side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u58	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u59	That in itself is not a reason to interrupt him. I actually wanted to ask him a question about Nord Stream. We in the Chamber have said to the cabinet: in fact, on something like Nord Stream, coming from outside the EU but landing in the EU, you have to apply the same rules as on pipes that run from beginning to end within the EU. That's what the Room thinks. At least that is what the Chamber has said by way of a motion of censure. So I assume that's what we both expect from the cabinet. Indeed, I asked for this in my first term. Mr Sjoerdsma has done so a little more. I am very pleased with that, but in the end it is important that we apply the same rules, regardless of where the pipeline originates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u60	Let me be very clear: I agree 100% with that. This applies not only in the south of Europe, but also in the north and east of Europe. In the west, pipelines do not go so far as to reach the United States; they still have to do so by boat. But I would like to repeat one thing which is a little nuanced to what I just said. The cabinet said we're gonna have a conversation first. I am keen on that today, because I also want to know how that first step went. Is it set? Does it lead to satisfaction? We are now six months ahead, and I find, quite frankly, quite a long time in this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u61	I asked the Minister the same question, so Mr Sjoerdsma and I are in complete agreement. I would just like him to confirm that we feel the same way about the operative part of the motion at the time: you should be in favour of equal treatment in such cases. That has a great significance, because when you do that, it is precisely about transparency. Then it's just about er... er...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u62	Anti-monopoly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u63	...public procurement. That's exactly when you get the geopolitical implications of a pipe over the water, so to speak. Yes, the meeting that the Minister promised must be held or may have already been held, and we would like to hear what that has achieved. But the aim is ultimately to make that directive also apply to a leadership such as Nord Stream. I'd like to hear that confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u64	I think the cabinet has made that clear too. If this approach does not lead to success, we are now six months ahead, Mr Van Ojik and myself see that the Netherlands will consider further steps, such as supporting that proposed amendment to the directive. That doesn't include a word of Spanish. Mr. Chairman. I had joined the European defence policy. Important steps are being taken in the field of far-reaching European defence cooperation. I mention PESCO, but I also mention the great political statements made by Macron and now Merkel, who advocate the creation of a genuine European military force. Mr President, you will understand that my heart is going to beat faster, just like the fact that En Marche! joined ALDE this week. I believe that this is an important step for the progressive middle and European Union. What is the Minister's view of this French-German course, this French-German perspective? How does he see that in this debate? Does he see that as something positive, something he wants to join? Something more concrete, we have had those EU Battlegroups for a very long time. When are we gonna bet these things for once? Because it's very good to stand by all the time, but just like with a computer, you have to press and turn on the button at some point. Mr. Chairman. My final point on the EU: European asylum policy. The Union has put this issue to a huge test. This Minister has visited Niger, Nigeria and Tunisia in recent weeks. It became clear that these countries are not necessarily lining up to take back their own citizens, nationals. Never mind that they want to commit to migration deals. I'm sorry about the first one. Let me just say that right now. It's just an international obligation to take back ex-nationals. The second one raises a question for me. How do we ensure that we do not allow these boats to enter the Mediterranean if these countries do not participate in migration deals? Then my question to the Minister is: what was possible? What did his interviews tell you? What do these countries want? What were they prepared for in terms of cooperation? And I see Mr Voordewind now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u65	I see Mr Voordewind, too. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u66	It took me a while to get down here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u67	The escalator turned the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u68	I have another question about the European army, which Mr Sjoerdsma is so enthusiastic about. In one breath, you say something crucial, namely that the EU Battlegroups, which have been in existence for 20 years, have never been deployed. The Netherlands and other countries have always freed up capacity for this, which we then do nothing with. What does Mr Sjoerdsma expect of a standing European army and what it will not cost? I think we need to change the Multiannual Financial Framework, if you want to get that far. What does he expect other than what we have with the Battlegroups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u69	Can I take another step back? Trump is really right on one point, and that is when it comes to the European Union's capacity to keep its own pants on when it comes to security. He's asking for more money, he wants that 2% standard, I think we can make a huge blow with better cooperation. We now have 28 armed forces working all the way across each other, unable to communicate with each other, having communication systems that don't work, having 5 different types of frigates and 8 different types of tanks, and we buy 5 billion a year in ammunition, of which 1.5 billion goes to mutual certification. This step alone towards such a European army would be a very welcome and important step to show that we can keep our own pants up and face the threat of Russia and the East on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u70	I thought Mr Trump did not mean to steer a European army which could be an alternative...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u71	He's not enthusiastic, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u72	He's not very enthusiastic. Why isn't he excited? Because he sees that as a threat to Atlantic cooperation in NATO. But apart from that, when Mr Sjoerdsma mentions all kinds of arguments for better cooperation, more alignment and the purchase of the same military systems, he finds me on his side. But for that we do not need a standing European army, we can just do that now. In fact, this is going in the direction of the Defence Fund, which is jointly examining whether material itself can be produced. But for that we do not need a standing European army. So again, why a standing European army, which is going to cost a lot more money than we do now, when we can do it already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u73	There's some assumptions in here that I don't think they're true. Let me start with the last one: that's going to cost a lot more money than it is now. If you're just looking at the doubles I just talked about, you can see it's huge. It runs into the billions. I honestly believe that we can save a huge amount of money by improving cooperation and working towards a European army. I think we can not only save, but also increase our military strength. I would say: look at what the European Union must do today. We can't guard our own borders. We can only counter Russia with the help of the United States. A serious fleet presentation to ensure that our trade routes, also important for Rotterdam, are safe. We're not capable of that. Let's see if we can approach each other, because I'm tasting a little in the question that you're not such an enthusiastic fan of the European army. Let us at least jointly see if we can do something with the EU Battlegroups to show that we are capable of making a dent in a pack of butter. That would be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u75	That's where we can find each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u76	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u77	...for the Christian Union has always been in favour. But I note that this is not a standing army in the sense of permanent, to which the Netherlands therefore does not have to make a permanent contribution. When it comes to costs, I would like to point out that Frontex, wherever it has been asked to reach 10,000 people, has now been the subject of a major debate, because it would go beyond the Multiannual Financial Framework. Let alone having a total European defence army.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u78	Let me be clear: is there a NATO army, is there a NATO army? The answer is no, there is no NATO army. What does exist is the way in which NATO Member States cooperate with each other, either in a permanent context when it comes to protecting our ally geographical space, or in a temporary context when it comes to military missions. So let me ask Mr Voordewind: is he against such a link, but at European level? As far as I am concerned, this can be done as part of NATO, just as good friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u80	Madam President, I have really challenged Mr Voordewind. I see he's offended to the depths of his soul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u81	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u82	I feel strongly attacked at this point. No, I'm kidding. On this challenge to shape further cooperation in Europe, I say: be my guest. But I think that is what Europe is doing, and I think that is fine. That is not a threat to Atlantic cooperation either, but that is something else like what Macron, and now Merkel in her last days, has suddenly come to grips with. That's a lot more federalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u84	What makes Mr Sjoerdsma of D66, normally democrat at heart, blindly following Macron and Merkel on this point? What problem is this going to solve? How much can it cost? What powers does Mr Sjoerdsma intend to give away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u85	I'm just going to get different elements out of this question. A democrat at heart: yes. That is also why, for example, D66 believes that the European Parliament should be given the right of initiative, budget law and the possibility of dismissing Commissioners. That is what we would like to see if the European Union could finally be made more democratic. But it's true that I also want to give away sovereignty. And do you know why I want that? I'm just saying that because it's often seen as something dirty. But it's not giving away as in: there's the trash can. Dutch sovereignty becomes European sovereignty. In this way, we can defend our interests much more strongly, quite frankly. And Mrs Karabulut's party is, I think, also in favour of a European asylum system. In doing so, it throws sovereignty over the fence. Mrs Ploumen agrees with me on European foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u86	Leave Mrs Ploumen alone for a moment... I think she's very...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u87	I do not use her name vainly in this case, Madam President. I'm gonna do everything I can to keep me from insulting her, so I'm gonna quit now. But what I'm saying is absolute sovereignty is like being alone on an island. Then you'll be absolutely sovereign, but you won't get anything done. That does not seem to me to be something Mrs Karabulut should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u88	Unfortunately, I see a total blinding of Mr Sjoerdsma when it comes to a European army. Mr Sjoerdsma is prepared to give away our control of foreign policy, a classic subject belonging to the national Member States. But what worries me most, perhaps, is that Mr Sjoerdsma is blind to the enormous increased tensions caused by militarisation, by further armament throughout the world and by the war raids and by a new Cold War with the Russians. We have NATO, we have the US and we have Russia and China on the other hand, and then Europe would make huge investments in arms and huge investments in militarisation. I do not understand how a third military power block would contribute to disarmament...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u89	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u90	... and security and peace in Europe. Haven't we needed decades to work together and bring peace and security, if that's what it takes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u91	Unlike Mrs Karabulut, I am not in favour of an arms race. In fact, I am in favour of far-reaching disarmament and improbably tight regulation of our arms exports. And I am very proud that a nuclear-free world has made it through the coalition agreement. I am very proud that further arms export measures have been achieved in the coalition agreement. So I'm not going to let Mrs Karabulut rub me for that. What I am in favour of is that Europe should not lie on its back if Russia knocks on the door too loudly, that Europe should not lie on its back when piracy makes life difficult for us and that Europe should not lie on its back if terror threatens our cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u92	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u93	Finally, I have to conclude that Mr Sjoerdsma is currently mainly on his back at this point for Mr Trump, who demands us to invest billions more in armaments, which is heading for a new cold war, which Europe is playing its way apart. And finally, when there is this cold war and we continue with this armament and there are billions more going to the military industrial complex at the expense of the basic security of people, we are sitting here with the baked pears. And away is your project Europe, Mr. Sjoerdsma. You'd better think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u94	I will, but if there's one party that's not exactly on her back for Mr Trump, it's mine, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mr. Koopmans, I'll give you the floor in a minute, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u96	I do not want Mr Van Ojik, I see. I'll mention his party, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Koopmans, you score the highest when it comes to the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u98	The record holder!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yes... One quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u100	But I would like to make a point to you, Mr President. There are things being said to Mr Sjoerdsma that I don't think fit on your back for President Trump and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u101	That's not supposed to be literal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u102	I don't like that metaphor. I really want that said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u103	This will provoke Mrs. Karabulut again. I fear this is going to be a distasteful debate, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u104	No, I just wanted to say that I'm using his own words. It was Mr Sjoerdsma who lay on his back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u105	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u106	I will stand no matter what happens to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u107	Good. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u108	Who should direct such a European army? Mr Sjoerdsma referred to the transfer of sovereignty. Earlier he said that the Netherlands should let others decide. By whom should this army be directed, by the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u109	I think it's a good question. But the last part of the question... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The only thing Parliament does here, and that is a task that Mr Koopmans takes as seriously as I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u111	I'd like to provide him with an answer, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u112	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u113	We do have a job to do when it comes to broadcasting missions. We agree with that or not. That's a serious job. It may well be that in the long term, someday, the European Parliament should have that task on the far horizon, absolutely. Anyway, Mr. President, you're in a hurry, we have to move on. I have had the European Union. The second organisation I would like to mention is the United Nations: crucial. I started with the commemoration of the First World War. Shortly after the Second World War, 51 members founded the United Nations, with the main task of maintaining peace and security, internationally. 73 years later, we can celebrate real successes: halving poverty, achieving Millennium Goals. It is far too shortsighted, as Mr Trump would like, to pull the plug from the UN organisation if you do not like certain decisions. That's nothing but trouble. What are the consequences of this attitude by the United States of America for the functioning of UN organisations? As far as I am concerned, the Netherlands is right in front of the United Nations. We are pleased that the Netherlands is running again for the Human Rights Council, pleased that there are increased contributions to various UN organisations. The results in the Security Council? I'm not gonna take it off, I'm just proud of it. But, and I agree with other parties in this Chamber, the battlepower has to be better. The Netherlands can play a role in this. It is precisely because we benefit from this multilateral system that I ask this Minister: how will we continue to contribute to the modernisation of UN missions and how will we continue to contribute to reform within the United Nations? I am referring to the abolition of the veto, which we are talking about again, and the financial allocation for emergency aid, although I suspect that Mrs Karabulut would also like to abolish this veto. Mr President, then our most fickle ally of the moment: the United States. An ally who might be more of a distant neighbor... Oh, I've got it again... Apologies, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u114	I was actually wondering where you now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u115	I think I'm about halfway around the cup of United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u116	Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr President, I haven't been standing here so often today, have I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u118	No, never.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u119	I also think that Mrs Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u120	This is about the United Nations Security Council. Indeed, good results have been achieved, including Resolution 2417.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u121	About hunger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u122	That's right. Hungry as a weapon of war. Now there is a proposal from me, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Van Ojik, and I understand Mr Van Helvert to call on the Minister to work in the UN Security Council to also impose sanctions against those responsible for starving as a weapon of war, you saw Nusair in the photo shoot in Yemen. Can I assume that D66 supports this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u123	You can assume a number of things, I'd say. First of all... I didn't say for nothing that I was proud of the results in the Security Council. It is unlikely that it has been possible to classify hunger as a weapon in the Security Council despite the great opposition of certain countries. I will not mention those countries, because they have succeeded. Second. Is it obvious that hunger is being used as a weapon in Yemen? I'd say absolutely. Then the final question is how we deal with it. I have a proposal for this, which is about a ceasefire and an arms embargo. I am also, of course, prepared to look at your proposal. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u124	Okay, so you're in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u125	I said what I said. I am in favour of action towards Yemen. I want two things. I want a cease-fire and an arms embargo. If your proposal is in line with that, I am looking forward to it. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u126	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u127	Finally, Mr President. I want those first two cases, too. Then I think it is very relevant to come to the ceasefire, to achieve peace at all. Justice must also be applied. This can only be done if we combat impunity by applying such a beautiful instrument of our own from the Netherlands. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u128	Proceed, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr. Chairman. I had come to the United States, a country which, of course, is a very important ally, but which is increasingly becoming a distant neighbour. It is also an ally that damages our main interests. That is what happens when it comes to climate change and security. I refer to the Iran deal, the INF agreement and trade. Meanwhile, that ally is asking for more money within the NATO framework. It's kind of like trading out and making a big deal is all this president really understands. I therefore believe that it is important that we, together with our European allies, have a real joint commitment towards the NATO meeting in December. So, what's this strategy gonna be? Is there really a joint strategy to get the United States back on the table and to link up all these different dossiers, such as climate agreement, Iran deal, INF agreement, NATO contributions, and thus to achieve something that can finally serve our interests and our allies? Mr. Chairman. Then the recent elections in the United States, where the Democrats won the House of Representatives. That also gives room, I think, to tighten the ties with Congress. That's what we have to do when the ties to the Trump administration are so difficult. So I also support Mr Van Helvert's proposal. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the United States pre-clearance possibilities for the United States at Dutch airports. Can the Minister indicate when the promised test to what extent pre-clearance is in accordance with our Constitution and international treaties will come to the Chamber, as Secretary of State Harbers promises? I think everyone wants shorter rows at Schiphol Airport, but nobody wants shorter rows because there people with the Islamic faith are being pulled out of line. Mr. Chairman. China, a country that is slowly but surely increasing its grip on the European Union, but also on the Netherlands. Last spring, the VVD, supported by D66, called for a new China strategy. We didn't ask them for nothing. We therefore asked because we have great concerns about, for example, the way China buys influence in the port, about technological start-ups taken over by Chinese state-owned companies and about Huawei's dominance when it comes to the roll-out of 5G networks. These are all kinds of ways in which Chinese State interference is increased here. When can we see this strategy? Is this form of influence included in this? Mr. Chairman. The third great power, which has not recently entered our country unseen, is Russia. An excellent performance by our services, who have sabotaged an amateurist espionage action. Cyber threat is one of the greatest threats of our time, whether it be hospitals, nuclear power stations, waterworks or other vital infrastructure. We know the Geneva Convention when it comes to regular warfare, but are there sufficient rules for digital warfare? When is something an attack on another state? What rules are in place? How can you repay me? How do you stay within the framework of normal international law? I ask this Minister what possibilities he sees for reopening the negotiations that have been broken on this point. Mr. Chairman. We discussed Saudi Arabia in detail yesterday. I have a motion on that which I hope can be tabled tomorrow. I wanted to dwell on Iran. A year ago, an Iranian was wound up here in The Hague, a few hundred metres from this Parliament. It was a murder with many similarities to something that happened earlier in 2015. That was also a liquidation of another Iranian here in the Netherlands. Last summer, the Netherlands expelled two Iranian diplomats. The Minister of Justice and Security was unable to give me any clarity about this last week. Nor could he guarantee me that the diplomats who were expelled were not in any way involved in these liquidations. So I ask this Minister too. Is there any connection between these events? Why were they deported? And is it true that no suspects of murder or manslaughter can be deported without the knowledge of these ministers? I also ask this because previous Iranian interference in Denmark and France has indeed led to a reaction, and in the case of France even to sanctions, whereas I do not see that in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then Israel and Palestine. With horror, I can see that almost every year of violence is resurrected. The day this conflict is resolved, I don't see it coming. But I do ask this Minister: where is this independent investigation into the violence that has taken place before? Can we wait for independent investigation again? And does the Minister agree that the violence in the past has been disproportionate? Of course, we must condemn Hamas for what they have done, but we have asked earlier about the Israeli role and we have not yet received anything back. Mr. Chairman. On the hopeful side, I have proposed with Mr Voordewind to establish a link between Gaza and the West Bank. This led to positive reactions on the Palestinian side. There was less enthusiasm on the Israeli side, but steps could still be taken. I would actually like to ask: what is the situation with these steps? Have they become concrete, or are we being kept on a leash? I sincerely hope for the first, because I want us to take steps here, so that people keep hoping. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a word about the demolition of projects financed by the Netherlands and the European Union. The Minister has promised to recover that damage from Israel, but I do not think Israel has yet paid. I ask this minister, what are we going to do to get that money back? What steps can the Minister take in this respect? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the 1 million Dutch people living abroad. That is a group of Dutch people for which Foreign Affairs has the greatest responsibility as far as D66 is concerned. This cabinet invests in these people again, and that's good, because they don't only provide money to the Netherlands; they are also all business cards of our country. But you know me: it can always be better. That is why I have a few questions for the Minister to make this group even more binding on the Netherlands. First of all, a compliment for the letter on voting abroad, in which this Minister states that in next year's European elections, five European embassies and some others outside the European Union can be voted on. I hope that will increase the somewhat low turnout in recent years. I thank him very much for that step. I think that is very important. Secondly, consular services. On this point, the budget, perhaps somewhat hidden, said that the passport costs for Dutch people abroad, who were already very high, would be increased, and not simply increased, but significantly increased. We think that is undesirable. The VVD colleague has already said that, and I very much agree with him. This particular group of people often already has to pay very high costs, think of a hotel stay, air travel and that sort of thing to come up with a new passport. I believe that the Dutch government should not increase these costs. So I am also asking whether it is possible to keep that price at the original level rather than increase it. I also ask about the digitisation of consular services. The idea was to be able to do everything digital by 2020. Are we still on schedule? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet also makes 3 million euros available for Dutch education abroad. That too is important to bind Dutch children to our country and our language. How the hell is that money being spent? Do we see any results? And how is it invested? Mr. Chairman. In view of the time available, I would also like to join the important questions put by Mr Koopmans on the Forced Marriage Unit. I wholeheartedly support his remark that we need to achieve results here, especially in comparison with other countries. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point. The 1 million Dutch people abroad, pioneers, world improvers, development workers, contribute with their work across borders to our country. But I think we only have a moderate picture of how much that actually is. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to carry out an investigation into this matter. Finally, Mr President. Merkel and Macron were a symbol of a war this weekend, of a peace that is not self-evident and of a European Union that cannot be underestimated, but a symbol is nothing without action. We can only do that ourselves, as part of this Union. We must be more European than ever, more united than ever, and I assume that the Foreign Minister will follow this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u130	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr. Chairman. The newly elected president of Brazil, Bolsonaro, added a female representative: "You're still too ugly to rape." Vladimir Putin announced in March that Russia has a new devastating nuclear missile. The Saudis killed a journalist in a consulate in Istanbul. According to the leaders of the Italian Five Star Movement, journalists are "whores and jackals." Donald Trump blames the media daily for bringing fake news and denies a journalist access to press conferences. President Duterte has a message for his soldiers: "Just shoot female rebels in their vagina, because without a vagina they are useless." In Turkey, President Erdogan is locking up critical journalists and holding tens of thousands of political prisoners. The once so acclaimed Aung San Suu Kyi looks away when genocide is committed in her country on the Rohingya. This depressing list from this year can be added effortlessly. Fortunately, there is also a list of people who stand up against hate for women, stand up against discrimination and racism and stand up for freedom of the press. They know themselves supported by the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Now, in our time, it comes down to it again. In the year that we celebrate 80 years ago that Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted, world leaders slap human dignity. Too often those leaders just get away with it. In the UN Security Council, geopolitical interests are playing into the hands of injustice. In the EU there is too little action and in the Netherlands too often the cabinet hesitates to express itself, because that would not be realistic; I paraphrase the words of Minister Blok. The importance of the Netherlands would not be served by it. The Netherlands would be alone. A low point was last week: the Minister dissuaded a motion by Mrs Buitenweg, who called for heads of government who were anti-Semitic to address it. Fortunately, the Chamber was more sensible and the motion could count on a majority. So that's standing policy now, I'm telling the Minister. This cabinet, this minister, is too guided by the so-called realistic foreign policy of the VVD. Especially do not stick out your neck, especially not stand out and especially color within the lines. But this time, our country and human rights demand a different approach, alert, active and committed. Such an approach is also better for the position of the Netherlands on the world stage. If the Netherlands is too modest and too cautious and if the Netherlands makes itself small, we have nothing to crumble in the milk. Then we'll just become one of the many small countries. The worst thing is that we do not only fail ourselves, but especially all those people who feel supported when the Netherlands does choose a position, because only if we make ourselves greater in the interests of the safety of the Dutch and in the interests of the security of the world, if we put what is desirable instead of what is now feasible and as a dream and act reinforce each other, only then we can get things done, things that we might not have thought possible ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u132	I have the feeling that Mrs Ploumen is failing herself here. If she really wants to achieve something, you must be prepared to use your resources. For example, I have just put forward a proposal here to say, for important purposes, such as taking migrants back and responding to serious human rights violations, through the EU, to which the Netherlands is contributing a lot of money, that if you do not stick to those kinds of important goals, we will give those roads, those tram tracks and that kind of thing to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u133	And what exactly do you want to ask Mrs Ploumen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u134	Whether she agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u135	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u136	I think the Netherlands has been in a position for years. If the leaders of South Sudan kill their own people, the Netherlands will stop helping that country. I am going to examine Mr Koopmans' proposal. I'm just always afraid that the VVD, if it proposes to stop building roads in a poor country before I know it, will widen the A4 so that we can drive here 130 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u137	I am glad that Mrs Ploumen is also in favour of building more roads. That's very nice. But what matters now is that we are actually doing something. She's all saying nasty words about the VVD, which I'm just gonna leave aside. What really matters is: what can we find each other for? Through the EU, let us use our strength to achieve the goals that Mrs Ploumen also wants to achieve, namely to combat human rights violations, to take back rejected asylum seekers. Let's do that and not blame each other. Let's do something, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u138	I am now going to make three proposals that I think are important. I hope for the support of Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. I therefore call for a foreign policy in which dream and deed reinforce each other. I put forward three proposals for this. About safety. The world seems to be getting more and more insecure and unsafe. Geopolitical superpowers confine themselves to raging rhetoric instead of working on real solutions to the wars in Syria and Yemen, which are suffering millions of people. Mr Karabulut has already spoken about this. The threat of terrorism remains and takes on new forms through cybercrime. Kim Jong-un and Trump offer against each other who has the biggest warheads and suddenly make up again. Unpredictable and uncontrollable. Russia places new strategic weapons at the borders of the European Union and tries to expand its sphere of influence. The unilateral withdrawal of the Iran deal by America complicates the situation in the Middle East and undermines confidence in the West. The external policy note recognises these threats and provides for an analysis. But action from the Netherlands is too often lacking. Can the Minister answer that? In this complex situation, I would like to pay particular attention to the danger of nuclear weapons. If you're in high school right now, I'm just gonna take a look upstairs, and you might think, "Key guns? What is she talking about?" The days when people went on the streets massively to demonstrate for a nuclear-free world are not at all so far behind us. Last year, the campaign against nuclear weapons quite rightly won the Nobel Peace Prize. Because nuclear weapons are a major threat to the security of the world. That is why it is so important that we continue to fight against new weapons and the modernisation of the existing arsenal. I will make motions on this tomorrow morning, but now I would like to ask the Minister how he looks at this threat. Does he see it too? Does he recognise the risks of the modernisation of nuclear weapons? What contacts has he had with colleagues himself? What's his commitment to these conversations? Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, I have been working for the establishment by the UN Security Council of a thematic sanction regime against violence against women in conflicts. The Netherlands is a member of the Security Council for a year. We had the unique opportunity to arrange that. The minister's been sleeping with colleagues. He has made extensive mention of message "Thank you," but the cabinet has not succeeded. But I'm not giving up. I would therefore ask him to try again in a different way, namely at EU level. The European Union may impose restrictive measures against countries or persons. Only recently, the EU has indicated its intention of systematically and innovatively sanctioning sexual violence against women in conflicts. Does the Minister see an opportunity to take charge of this? Because the horrible violence against Rohingya women, against Jezidi women, against the girls in northern Nigeria and against the women in Congo must stop. Mr. Chairman. My third point is freedom of the press. It is becoming increasingly difficult for journalists worldwide to do their job. Freedom of the press is curtailed, even by governments of countries that are our allies. Journalists are murdered, tortured, threatened and imprisoned. And that this is not a far-from-our-bed show, proves the murder of journalists in Malta and Slovakia and the threat of Paul Vugts, a Dutch journalist, and of the editors of the Telegraaf. And that is when one of the most important pillars of democracy is the free press. The Netherlands can play a role in promoting that free press. That is why I have three questions for the Minister. Is it true that last year's D66 colleague's fund for journalists is empty? What possibilities does the Minister see to raise it? Two. Since 1998, a UNESCO Congress has been held annually on the International Press Freedom Day. Is the Minister prepared to propose the Netherlands to the UN to organise this conference, for example by 2020? And what is the Minister's position on the idea of creating a Dutch prize: a prize for people or organisations who are fighting against the cliffs for the free press? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I've... Oh, Mr De Roon would like to ask you a question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u142	I have just missed Mrs Ploumen's position on Mrs Kati Piri's report on Turkey. It says: door for Turkey finally closed. Is that something the Labour Party wants here in the Chamber? And if so, will you close the money supply for Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u143	I believe that the Labour Party, like many other parties, has been very critical of developments in Turkey. I also said something about this: a country that locks up journalists and dismisses teachers does not deserve our support. So I support Mrs Kati Piri's report. I have seen it in broad terms. And we are going, like Mr De Roon, to see what that means for our position when it comes to further relations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u144	Then I hope that this further study will lead to simply closing the door for Turkey. I also hope that the PvdA will not become some sort of tolerant partner of Erdogan. You've done that long enough. You even made an Erdogan party happen here in the Chamber. At least you did not do that directly, but you are, of course, indirectly responsible for that. I really hope that you will take a firm stand against Turkey and against this Erdogan regime, and that you will say: that door must be closed and that money must be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u145	Then I sincerely hope that Mr De Roon will support my proposals regarding the support of those who are committed to human rights, to the free speech and to women's rights. I would say that the situation in Turkey is terrible. And anything we can do to get journalists out and make sure that it becomes a country where people can speak out again, we must not let it go. You-bowls don't help with that. So, unlike Mr De Roon, I will not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you. Then Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A foreign minister is a string dancer. He must maintain the balance between public expression and silent diplomacy. Much of the Minister's work, however, takes place behind the scenes. That is why the Minister is sometimes publicly criticised. That must be frustrating for the Minister: getting critical if you don't expose things, when you probably do but can't say. That also makes it difficult for MPs to control that minister. A minister's blind faith doesn't even do a coalition partner. Ministers can also make mistakes: nothing human is strange to them. And that is why I have again critical questions for the Foreign Minister. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Christian Union is pleased that the Minister is taking an active part in the implementation of the coalition agreement. The postal network will be expanded. Some 10 million will be added for the Human Rights Fund. And the Minister is firmly committed to condemning human rights violations, such as the bombing of Yemen, the murder of Jamal Khashoggi and the cyber attacks on the OPCW. These are all rightly severely convicted. And the unjustified support for the so-called moderate rebels has also been stopped by this minister. The Christian Union is also pleased that this minister has also made religious freedom clear as a spearhead of foreign policy. Then I'm gonna move on to that freedom of religion. The case of Asia Bibi has shown the importance of freedom of religion and belief in recent weeks in a dramatic way. We are very grateful to the Pakistani Government that she has been released. At the same time, we are still concerned about the position of Christians and other minorities in Pakistan. Yesterday, together with some colleagues, we spoke to the bishop of the Pakistani Church. We heard from various quarters that the Pakistani government wants to incorporate the blasphemy law into the Pakistani Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act, which aims to further restrict freedom of expression on social media, with the ultimate penalty being the death penalty. In addition, 18 international NGOs have recently been forced to stop their work and foreign funding of local NGOs is severely restricted. What can the Minister do to denounce Pakistan at European level, for example through the GSP+ Trade Treaty? Finally, Pakistan still has 27 international conventions to comply with, I understand, as a condition for the GSP+ agreement. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President, on this subject. The Christian Union wholeheartedly agrees with colleagues on the appointment of a special ambassador for religious freedom. We also signed the motion for that. I hope the Minister will support that. Then the position of minorities in northern Iraq. We have often talked about it here, in particular the position of Christians, but also that of Jezidis. They are still forced to sit in containers or, at worst, in tents in Erbil and Dohuk. We too, for our own sake alone, have an interest in ensuring that these refugees do not run off and end up in a worse situation in Turkey, but that they can return to their own villages. We have contributed to the coalition of the international community, the anti-ISIS coalition, when it comes to fighting ISIS, but now it is important that these refugees are also helped with the possible physical proximity of the troops, so that they can get a sense of security when they would like to return to their own villages. What else can the Netherlands do? I have drawn attention to this earlier in motions for resolutions and they have been adopted. I would really like to hear from the cabinet what the Netherlands could do now in practical terms to allow these people to return 400,000 people to their village on the Ninevé plain. Then I'm going from northern Iraq to Turkey and Northern Syria, to the battle that the Kurds, the SDF, the Syrian Democratic Forces, are going there. We know that they are the main forces of NATO and the anti-ISIS coalition to fight ISIS. At present, there are still small cores of ISIS in Syria. The SDF are fighting that battle on the ground. At the same time, they are also attacked by the Turks. For example, they are under attack from both sides, including from a NATO ally, Turkey. Does the Netherlands address Turkey in this regard? Is Turkey also addressed in the NATO context? If we accept this, it means undermining the fight against the last chunks of ISIS in Syria. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. In case the Minister is not fully convinced of the importance of fighting ISIS and using the SDF, I will give him a quote from an AIVD report. "ISIS uses Turkey as a strategic base. From here, ISIS can restore, reorganize and further shape the underground struggle in the region. In addition, ISIS can use the relative tranquility in Turkey to forge plans to rebuild its still existing international ambitions." This publication should also give Turkey the opportunity to address this issue. Then the Armenian genocide. We've talked about it a lot in this house. I am pleased that the cabinet has sent a government delegation to Jerevan over the past year to express the Dutch Government's condolences. At the same time, we can still see that this Dutch government is using the term 'the question of Armenian genocide'. I must say, also on behalf of the Armenian community, that this is still very offensive to them. The government then visits "the issue of Armenian genocide monuments." There must be a different wording for this than 'the question of the Armenian genocide'. Chancellor Merkel has been there. Macron's been there. Other Heads of Government have been there. They do not talk about 'the issue of Armenian genocide'. They refer to a motion adopted in the Bundestag in 2016 and to the hundreds of thousands of victims who were killed in the war in 1915 in Turkey. Why can't we change our statements on this in the same way? On that point, the question of when the Dutch parliament can ratify the EU-Armenia Treaty of November 2017 and when it will be submitted to Parliament. Then the migration deals. Like Mr Van Ojik, I am curious about the experience of this minister. He's also been to Tunisia. We've been there as a migration committee. We've heard the same noises. We also visited the detention camps in Libya. When Minister Kaag returned from those detention camps, she said they should be closed down. What has this government done in the intervening eight months to help to really change these horrible inhuman situations, where men sometimes spend two years locked up in old sheds, as quickly as possible? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Then there is another poignant situation, namely of refugees who have made the crossing over the Mediterranean to the islands of Greece. That's another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u148	How far along are you with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u149	I've got two minutes and 13 seconds left on my meter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u150	Then I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr Voordewind refers to the terrible situation in the detention camps in Libya. It's good that he does. Of course, he asks the cabinet how they see it. But how does the Christian Union see that? What should this cabinet do now, especially after what has been said before, to ensure that this situation improves?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u152	We've been there. I understand recently that the UN camp has been opened. There can be 1,000 people there, but there are 9,000 people left in those detention camps. That means we still have 8,000 people left who have to live in inhumane situations. I ask: what has become of the Minister for Development's plea to close those detention camps? I heard afterwards that other members of the cabinet said that the situation should at least improve. Well, we were there eight months later, but we didn't see any improvement in those camps. So your question is also my question. Hence my question to the cabinet: what have the ministers done because it concerns several ministers in the intervening period in order to insist on improvement, since we cannot observe it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u153	My conclusion, therefore, is that Mr Voordewind agrees with me that the situation is unacceptable and that this cabinet should take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u154	That seems to me to be a very obvious conclusion. We share that, of course. I think the whole Chamber will find that if you've been there and seen it, it's unacceptable for people to be locked up like this and not know what they're up to. So, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u155	Same thing. Mr Voordewind's speech deals with two things, if I listen to him properly. On the one hand, you have the situation in the camps in Libya and the question whether you can send people back there at all. But you also have the broader issue of migration deals. That's what my question was about, among other things. Mr Voordewind referred to this. I would also like to ask Mr Voordewind what his own conclusion is. Yeah, he's been there recently. He heard what the minister said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u156	Yes. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u157	...when he was in Tunisia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u159	My conclusion is that the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, who drew the Foreign Minister's conclusion and who actually drew our entire committee when we were there. That conclusion is that, as the Tunisian Foreign Minister said, there will be no migration deals with Europe at the moment. But that does not mean that practical solutions are possible. To my surprise, much more happened than I'm reading in the media in the West. I call it a thing or two. There is a 270 million aid package going towards Tunisia to try to give the unemployed young people a perspective there. The coastguard is being strengthened, in Libya, we already knew that, but also in Tunisia, where with the help of Dutch and European funds, we are being greatly strengthened, so that we can prevent those drownings in the Mediterranean Sea. There are planes with Tunisians going back to Tunisia, and then it is not just a few but really hundreds that are returning. At the same time, there are agencies there that give legal employment prospects to people in Libya or Tunisia, because of the shortages in the labour market in Germany. But there are also deficits in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr Voordewind pointed out that all kinds of agreements were possible. Of course it is. But he knows as well as I do that the government agreement is about very specific types of migration deals, which are going to enable us to send people who apply for asylum in Europe back to countries in the region; let me summarise. The question is whether such deals have any future in Mr Voordewind's view. That all kinds of arrangements are possible, I understand and I also like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u161	I note that my opinion does not matter very much. I note that the migration deals we know with Turkey are not relevant at the moment, as I heard the Foreign Minister explain in Tunisia. They're "not relevant at all" he even said. We may be able to discuss it long and wide, but we can make much better use of the opportunities that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u162	Mr. De Roon. No. Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr Voordewind says very modestly that his opinion does not matter very much. I certainly do not repeat that in this matter. I would remind him of a passage in the coalition agreement which is quite crucial to the migration story, namely that the cabinet is aiming for certain types of migration deals. Now Mr Voordewind says, if I understand him correctly, that these kinds of deals are no longer relevant. I think I'm quoting him literally. It is an important fact as one of the four coalition parties that says here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u164	Small correction: I quoted the Minister of Social Affairs we spoke to there. He said: migration deals are not relevant at all. That is what we have to deal with, and that is why we need to see what other solutions are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u166	Well, I've heard that suggestion from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u167	Of course, Mr Voordewind is right when he says that a lot of lucky seekers are trapped in Libya. They're even in a lousy trap, and we agree on that. But does Mr Voordewind also see that part of the responsibility for this, and perhaps even all the responsibility for it, lies with all those weak drivers in Europe? For years they have created and maintained the image for those lucky seekers that if they simply go and try to enter illegally, they will succeed and will be able to build a good life here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u168	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u169	That image could have existed for years thanks to the weak performance...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u170	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u171	... from the drivers here? What is the role of the Christian Union in that story? Isn't he partly responsible for how that image could have been created?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u172	Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I heard Minister Merkel, the President of the Union, say that she apologizes for talking too easily about the migratory flows we knew in 2015-2016. I myself stood at the border of Macedonia in 2016 and saw 7,000 people crossing the border without any control. I've written a report on that. I stood in Lampedusa in 2014 and saw that all kinds of migrants, rather than refugees, crossed over to the island of Italy and thus to the continent of Europe. Then I wrote a report and I said that much earlier, on the African coast, we should make the selection to see who is a migrant and who is a refugee. And when it comes to migrant workers, they should be given the opportunity to return to the country of origin. I spoke to a Nigerian in Libya who said: I want to leave Libya as soon as possible, because this is hell for me and please let me return to my country of origin, Nigeria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u173	It is good that Mr Voordewind, a few years ago, noted things that were not good and wrote a report on them. But I am also talking about the period before that. Then the Christian Union also contributed to that image that it is not all that bad, and that luck seekers can come in, and we will not act harshly against it. We're just gonna let it all go. If Mrs Merkel apologizes, isn't there a reason for the Christian Union to apologize?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u174	These are all free translations of texts that I do not quickly recognize from myself. I have always said: if migrant workers seek refuge in Europe, they must apply for a work permit in Africa and then they can follow the legal route so that they do not drown in the Mediterranean. When it comes to refugees, she has to report to the UNHCR. Let us, then, as Europe, and also as the Netherlands, play our part in UNHCR's resolution programme. As you know, it was organised during the formation that the percentage of the Netherlands was increased. This is about real refugees and there must always be room for them. But we have always said of migrant workers: they must be taken into account in the region and we must make more money available to give them a perspective, but they cannot find their prospects here in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u175	Rounding up. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u176	Those are all rules and paper is patient. But you agree with me, Mr Voordewind, that the Christian Union has never said: keep them out of the door, don't let them come in here, close those borders, make sure they can't cross the Mediterranean? Where was the Christian Union when that had to be said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u177	I would like to encourage Mr De Roon to read the report that I wrote in 2014, so before the big stream. That report is about where we should do the selection. As far as we are concerned, the answer was: on the African coast of the Mediterranean, so that it would become clear whether people have prospects in Europe, yes or no. The report is called the Lampedusa report and it dates back to 2014. I would recommend this to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u178	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mr President, I shall proceed quickly. When they arrive on the Greek islands, we see how dramatic it could be even on the mainland of Europe. We hear about suicide attempts among young people, about automutilation. The situation is still as poignant as it was a year ago when I was standing here. What could the Netherlands have done, what could Europe have done to simply improve the humanitarian situation? And I know the answers that it is Greece's responsibility and that we are giving enough money for that shelter. But the situation is still the same. Then I'll look at Portugal. It has been said: let us at least get a number of people out of that camp on Lesbos and do the procedure ourselves to see if they are actually refugees. If they are, we'll record them, and if they're not, they'll have to go back. Is the Netherlands also prepared to look with the colleagues to see if we could relieve the camp on Lesbos with the Greeks by dividing a number of people over Europe at the moment? In this way we can relieve the burden on Lesbos and we can do the procedures ourselves in these Member States. 'Cause I understand that's just a bottleneck. Would the Minister also respond to the noises that there would be fraud, or that there would be attempts at fraud with European money intended precisely for the need in Greece? What's wrong with those messages? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to my final topics rather quickly. I shall come back to the subject that we are also discussing here every year when we discuss the budget for development cooperation, namely the perverse incentive of the payments of Palestinian convicted terrorists in Israeli prisons. We have already adopted a number of motions for resolutions on this matter in the Chamber. In fact, I have now understood that the amounts of the PLO budget go back to the Palestinian Authority. That's a real blow to the face of the West. What exactly can the government do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u180	I'm coming to Saudi Arabia. I would ask the Minister if any other trade trips to Saudi Arabia are planned for the time being. Finally, Mr President. I started by describing the minister as a string dancer. All these subjects sometimes require harsh public statements, but sometimes also silent diplomacy. I would particularly like to give the Minister room for this in view of the precarious situation in Pakistan. I wish him God's wisdom to make the right considerations over and over again, for the sake of many who do not have a voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Karabulut. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u182	I know that the Christian Union is also following the situation in Yemen very closely, and also sees the starving children there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u183	I didn't have time to go into that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u184	Yes. Well, maybe we can be brief about that. I would therefore like to propose that we use the resolution which the Netherlands has obtained on the use of starvation as a weapon of war. If we use them, there may be sanctions for those responsible for these crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u185	I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma is tabling a similar motion, so I am waiting to see which motion it is going to be. But in principle I sympathise with this kind of proposal to denounce it in the Security Council, so I am waiting for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u186	Good, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP for his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u188	Madam President. I want to start with a quote. "It is much better to be compassionate, faithful, human, honest and religious than it really is." That was a statement from the sixteenth century, coming from.I think some have already guessed.The ruler of Machiavelli. I was once allowed to study Machiavelli in my study, but what I didn't know was that I learned from my group colleague Bishop during a wisdom of the week that we have every week in our group meeting, where someone brings up something from history or the present is that at the same time there was also a monarch's mirror written by Erasmus, the Institutio. Erasmus makes a very different sound. "If you cannot defend your realm without violating the law, then step down and bow to the circumstances. Stick to your opinion that you would rather be a righteous man than an unjust ruler." A completely different tone, which actually says: no, do not choose appearances but choose to be. You can already feel it coming: my question to the Minister is whether he wants to be more in the machiavellist tradition or in the erasmian tradition. That is, of course, also useful information for Parliament's supervisory role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u189	This calls for an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u190	It is a very nice introduction anyway, but it also raises the question: is Mr Van der Staaij more of a machiavellist or is he more of an Erasmus admirer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u191	At least on this point, I would rather follow Erasmus than Machiavelli.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u192	That is good news for humanism!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u193	I said 'at this point' because I wanted to leave out the struggle between, for example, Luther and Erasmus about free will, not to put too much on the plate at once. But I am now focusing on the Foreign Affairs budget. Mr. Chairman. Erasmus also made fine statements about the art of peace in that royal mirror. Indeed, in the field of foreign affairs, we see that it stands or falls with peace, security, freedom and prosperity. They are also closely linked. In many places in the world, that peace is far away. There are fierce conflicts between and within countries and horrible crimes are taking place. The Netherlands can't ignore that and fortunately the Netherlands doesn't. We also have a great deal of appreciation for the efforts to combat terrorism or, in the context of the UN Security Council, to combat trafficking in human beings. Even if a country is not at war, there can still be so much injustice within a country that it is equally important to join forces to act against it. It is also important not only as states to contribute to peace but also to support peacemakers. A lot of attention is paid to conflicts between countries and to international organisations, but there are also a lot of non-governmental organisations that focus on conflicts and keep warlords apart. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is sufficient attention for this. Think, for example, of the NGO Geneva Call, which makes special mirror treaties and also aims to protect children from war violence and women from sexual violence. I would also like to draw your attention to this. Mr. Chairman. Heart for peacemakers means that we should not give support to hate-gatherers. You would say that that is self-evident, but yet I note that there is a major problem here, even with regard to Palestinian authority, that salaries continue to be paid. Mr Voordewind also referred to condemned Palestinian terrorists. Also the sedition through the material for schools continues. Human Rights Watch also recently talks about the capture and torture of critics. If we add all these signals together, and we've been talking about this for so many years, then the SGP is in favour of a firm signal, including towards the Palestinian Authority, in the form of turning off the money tap until credible steps have been taken to stop terrorist salaries and hate-sowings. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. I would also ask him to make an effort to re-activate the so-called Trilateral Commission against 'hate speech' and 'incitation', or to spread hatred and incite violence. It has worked in the past, but it doesn't actually work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you. That calls for an interruption by Mrs Karabulut. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u195	It is important that we focus on hate-songists, but also that we defend all human rights. You specifically ask about the benefits to a number of people who are imprisoned, at least to their families. I'm interested in the answers. On the other hand, I was in Israel and Palestine last summer. We have also received a delegation recently. The Israeli state and government are criminalising and putting pressure on human rights defenders in all kinds of ways. Do you think the Minister should be aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u196	All injustice or appearances of injustice must be paid attention. If you have asked questions about this, I would be happy to hear the answers. But this is what I have focused on and which I would like to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u197	I am glad that Mr Van der Staaij is also aware of the other side. That brings me to a second question. Unfortunately, once again, there are horrible acts of violence. The Israeli army has bombed buildings, media buildings and so on in Gaza. At the beginning of this year, many peaceful demonstrators were killed. At the same time, there have been missile fires on Israel from the other side, also with a dead one. I'm sorry to hear that. I don't approve. Do you also reject the use of excessive violence, especially against peaceful demonstrators, on the part of the Israeli Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u198	What I would strongly reject here is the violence, the constant missile rain that is taking place from Gaza. I commend the restraint shown by Israel in general. It may be that Israel is being so challenged and so many innocent Israeli citizens are also threatened by this continuous flow of missiles, that Israel is unfortunately forced to act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u199	Mrs. Karabulut, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u200	That wasn't my question. Of course, Israel has the right to defend itself. That's his legitimate security need. That's what I'm supposed to do. This is about disproportionate use of violence against peaceful demonstrators. You're rejecting that, too? That is important. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij will agree with me that the illegal blockade that is being carried out around Gaza, the cutting off of Gaza from the outside world, means that there is no solution to this violence, and that we should work on it for a lasting solution. Does Mr Van der Staaij share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u201	I think we should not forget that this is really about a hotbed of terrorism. This is also apparent from the ongoing rocket rain. That requires special security measures, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u202	I just said it was final. One more time, but a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u203	What is that your sustainable solution? I mean, there's another rocket reaction with reactions and so on. Just shouldn't the blockade be lifted, so that a lot of people living in Gaza are reminded of young people who want perspective, the enormous unemployment, which has risen, the polluted water, can live again as ordinary people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u205	... and both the Israelis and the Gazans and the Palestinians can live in peace and freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u207	A lasting solution is to recognise that there is also room for a Jewish democratic state in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr Van der Staaij is right to raise a sensitive issue, because hate-sowing must be combated everywhere in the world. It doesn't matter where it comes from, it doesn't matter who it's aimed at, you have to fight hate. He is now proposing to link a measure to the spread of hatred by Palestinians. He wants to cut the Palestinian contribution. What measures would he propose for similar hate-sowings on the Israeli side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u209	The second measure I proposed was more general: a trilateral committee, where all parties can put something on the table and then look at what is true and what can be done against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u210	That's very good. The Netherlands has been working on this for years. I was myself in 2011, 2012 in that region as a diplomat. At that time, the Netherlands also tried to revive that already existing committee. To my disappointment at the time and also that of Minister Rosenthal, whom you know, the Palestinians did not want the Israelis to do so at the time. But I support that request, of course, but still a question. You want to punish one party. You want to establish a dialogue, but what if that same hatred occurs on the other side? What does Mr Van der Staaij propose, even in view of his introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u211	Given my introduction, if Israel were to also pay salaries from terrorists, I would also argue for far-reaching measures, but that is not the issue. I also sometimes find in literature that balance can become a bias, that we always have to say in everything that happens: when we talk about this one side, we have to do it on the other side. This is a specific issue, which is the annual payment of terrorist salaries. We finally managed to get the PA to stop paying and then it went through the PLO, we understood later. That's just turned back! We should not accept that as a parliament. In the past, there was truly Chamber-wide support to stop this poisonous salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr Sjoerdsma, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u213	Yes, Chairman, concluding. Let me just say this for a moment, because Mr Van der Staaij himself does not want to go into it: every 71 seconds a hateful text or a hateful image towards the Palestinians is placed on the Israeli social media. Every 71 seconds! And do you know how many Israelis are being persecuted by the Israeli government for that? The answer is zero. Do you know how many Palestinians are being prosecuted for spreading hate? Quite a few. As far as I am concerned, if it is really about hate-sowing, it is more than right, more than right! But speaking of false balance, Mr. Van der Staaij, I really ask you, also in view of your beautiful introduction, to look at the hate-sowing on the other side. If you're proposing punitive measures, do it on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u214	It is perhaps a good thing to explain that I spoke explicitly about matters that take place under the responsibility and authority of the Palestinian Authority, so not about random citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u215	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr. Chairman. Those who have fallen victim to violence, oppression or other injustice need acts of mercy. That's a somewhat older word that at least comes back in the monarch's mirror for compassion or looking back at each other. In this context, we are pleased that the issue of religious freedom is being addressed in human rights policy. Worldwide, 200 million Christians are still victims of religious persecution, many of them in India and Pakistan. We have also discussed this recently, in connection with the case of Asia Bibi. That speaks volumes. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Voordewind's specific question on the extension of legislation on blasphemy, which would now also apply to online expressions. What can the Netherlands mean to reverse that, and wider, to strengthen religious freedom in India and Pakistan? What is the real commitment in these two countries? I would also like to highlight the need to reach young people when it comes to traditional rights of freedom, including freedom of religion. Where under the established order is sometimes more difficult to get movement, you can see that there is more to be expected through students and young people. I would therefore like to make a specific reference to the possibilities of using them. Finally, what is the situation with regard to the resettlement of members of persecuted minorities, such as Jezidis and Christians in Iraq and Syria? What support can the Netherlands provide? Mr. Chairman. A virtue that may have a less good name, but which I also encountered in the monarch's mirror, was the virtue of meekness. That's not easy to define. It is interesting to see that you encounter the concept in Greek at Aristotle: it holds the middle between two extremes: being angry for no reason and not getting angry at all. I think that soft courage, getting angry at the right time, with the right degree and for the right reason is important in relation to the different superpowers. Think also of the relationship with China and there is also business with Russia. We can easily say that we have to cut all connections, but these are countries that have a huge influence, and it is good to stay connected to them. Certainly, the pursuit of good relations is important, but yet, referring to China, we are concerned that crucial companies and infrastructure are being given away. It would be a good idea to agree on this at European level, precisely to limit China's influence in the European Union. Mr. Chairman. Soft courage also means that victims of great injustice, such as Armenians, get the recognition they deserve. In practical terms, I am referring to the recognition of the genocide as such and not as a matter, as Mr Voordewind has already mentioned. I'll back him up. As far as we are concerned, this recognition should be accompanied by ministerial presence in commemorations of it. It would be good if the minister in Jerevan but also showed his face at the annual memorial in Assen. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. Finally, Mr President. My final point concerns subsidies for civil society organisations. The budget shows that many organisations are being subsidised. When it comes to civil society organisations, we can expect them to have social roots and to be able to raise funds. Elsevier recently called attention to an organisation like the COC, which lives almost entirely of public money. Does that apply to more subsidised organizations? Would it not be good to have an incentive to have more private funding instead of being too heavily dependent on purely public funding? Mr President, so much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u217	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is internationally known for its excellent diplomacy and international collaborations. We may be a small country, but certainly not small in how you, as a small country, are capable of great deeds. Not for nothing are leading international institutions based in our country and in this city. The Hague, the city of peace and justice. That brings with it a responsibility. At the same time, Dutch foreign policy is important for the Dutch streets and neighbourhoods. Because everything that happens abroad has its impact on our society. You can already notice this when you walk out of the building of the House of Representatives, but also in the streets and neighbourhoods, in Rotterdam's Afrikaanderwijk, the Hague's Schilderswijk or in Amsterdam-Osdorp: every time the Israeli army bombs recklessly Gaza, you notice that there too. Mr. Chairman. We follow developments abroad with special interest in the Netherlands. We pay attention to athletes abroad, to artists, to politicians and all kinds of events, and I welcome that, because we do not live on an island. Yet the Western world somehow has conscious blind spots. We have talked recently about the deployment of Dutch military forces in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan and recently Mali. About dirty, dirty, filthy geopolitics that people suffer from. And when it becomes difficult for the VVD or the minister in particular, they say to legitimize intervention that girls should be able to go to school. That was said last week. Mr. Chairman. Those are doers of death to beat the debate to death. Because why don't we intervene when it comes to Yemen, where girls can't go to school because they're hungry? Why don't we intervene in Myanmar, where Rohingya girls are brutally raped and can't go to school? Why do we not intervene in China because the human rights of Uighur girls are being violated by the Chinese regime? The answer is clear. It's about self-interest, and at least that's what the VVD is honest about. It is about the jobs, and not least for former executives of the VVD such as Mrs Hennis, who has now become an Iraqi envoy. Mr. Chairman. The essential question is how long we will continue to go after the United States and Trump. As far as we are concerned, we are going to thoroughly review our relationship with the United States of Trump, through whom there is a trade war with the EU and who withdraws from the Iran deal and the Paris climate agreement, and to focus more on improving European cooperation within the EU. Mr. Chairman. This brings me logically to Europe, a Europe that belongs to all of us, and not a Europe where nationalism, anti-Semitism, Muslim hatred and unfounded fear of the African migrant prevails. Those are movements that are actually at odds with the values that Europe is showing off. These values, which are discussed, are mainly under pressure from movements and countries within the European Union. Think of Hungary, for example, which does not take it so close to the freedom of the press. Think of Poland, that it does not take so close to the independence of justice, but also to right-wing populist and right-wing extremist clubs such as the long arm of Israel here in this Chamber, alias the PVV. Think also of the Flemish Interest in Belgium, the Front National in France, Lega Nord in Italy, AfD in Germany and so I can continue. In Europe too, we still have a long way to go to make Europe better. Mr. Chairman. One of the biggest challenges for the EU is undoubtedly the Brexit. The British Ministers are talking about this at the moment. Yesterday, the negotiators of the United Kingdom and the European Union reached a Brexit agreement. Now, this afternoon, the British ministers are meeting with Prime Minister May. Although there are still many obstacles to a final agreement, we are concerned about the possible consequences. What will the future EU-UK trade relationship look like? What would a possible safety net look like if there is no definitive trade agreement? What will this mean for the Netherlands, Dutch citizens and Dutch companies? Mr. Chairman. The European common foreign policy is downright disappointing. Five years ago, we were still hopeful about the arrival of Mogherini, a strong representative of the EU's foreign and security policy with a mission. But like any social democrat on the plush, she's disappointing. In her first interview we heard her pleading for the creation of a Palestinian state. But what has become of that in the last five years? The Israeli Government's repression of the Palestinians continues unabated. Incarceration of Palestinian children in prisons, the construction of illegal settlements and the destruction of Palestinians' buildings and possessions are almost part of the day's mission of the Israeli Government and the Israeli army. Unfortunately, I have to say that Mogherini is a mockery to the Palestinians. Mr. Chairman. A documentary by Al-Jazeera about the American Israel lobby has recently been leaked. It was previously, under great pressure, not broadcast. There are sound recordings of Sima Vakknin-Gil, the Director-General of the Israeli Ministry of Strategic Affairs. Vaknin-Gil confirms that the Israeli Government operates on foreign soil and should therefore be very careful. She talks about sensitive campaigns by her ministry, which relate to data collection and activist organisations. What we see here is a foreign government, which spies on peaceful citizens and undermines their democratic fundamental rights. This is also happening here in the Netherlands. Their hands are held above their heads by the Israel lobby here in the Lower House. That is why I have two questions for the Minister. I would like a clear position on the activities of the Israeli Government, here and elsewhere, directed against citizens supporting BDS. Does the Cabinet condemn such activities? Two. Are you prepared to investigate whether and in what form and extent such activities take place in the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber about the results? Mr President, speaking of espionage, I naturally come to Russia. Through a tip from the British, we were able to prevent the OPCW from being hacked by four Russian spies. Minister Bijleveld and Mr Eichelsheim of the Military Intelligence and Security Service then made a show of it through a press conference. Rightly fuss, rightly fuss about Russia's shameless action to undermine international law and its institutions. My question to the Minister is: why were the spies caught allowed back to Russia and not in jail? But there's also a downside. At the beginning of this year, we were proud that the AIVD hack team managed to invade Russian hackers. We were proud that our intelligence service collects information about other countries, but speak of shame when those same countries do it to us. Let me make it clear once again that what the Russians have done is absolutely out of the ordinary and that I condemn it. But I also appeal to our cabinet to look at our own actions. We have become entangled in a cyber war between intelligence services and selective outrage. If governments continue to hack each other, a conflict can escalate in such a way that certain essential systems are removed from the sky. Does the Minister agree with us that public hacking can ultimately be the victim of citizens? Mr. President, on the horror killing of Jamal Khashoggi. Trump called the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi the worst cover-up in history. He then suddenly remembered the US's economic interests with the Saudi authorities. Because when there was talk of a political murder, Trump was suddenly very reluctant. He also questioned the existence of sound recordings and participated in the biggest cover-up in history. These recordings have now been handed over by Turkey to various allies. France denies, but Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau confirms that his country has received and listened to the recordings. I ask Minister Blok: has the Dutch government received those sound recordings and, if so, what will be the consequences for Saudi Arabia? Mr. Chairman. The international outrage following the murder of Khashoggi is lacking in the bloody war in Yemen. Yemen is also a victim of dirty, dirty geopolitics but is hardly a priority in the West. While the UN warns that 14 million Yemenis will die of hunger, European countries still supply weapons to warring parties. DENK wants to stop feeding this war and start feeding children. The international arms trade treaty and humanitarian law of war must be respected, both by the Hutu militias supported by Iran, and by the coalition led by Saudi Arabia, supported by Great Britain, France and Trump. The murder of Khashoggi has already put pressure on Western support for the Saudi war in Yemen. The European Parliament has called for an end to arms exports to Saudi Arabia. I wonder, will the Netherlands finally comply with this? Is the Minister prepared to call for an arms embargo for all warring parties in Yemen, both at EU level and in the UN Security Council? Mr. Chairman. I see that I am very out of time, but I am making up for another budgetary procedure, I promise you. Mr. Chairman. We at DENK are also very concerned about the situation of the Rohingya. We wonder: how much longer, how much longer do we watch while the human rights situation in Myanmar deteriorates further? More than 700,000 Rohingya were forced to flee. The Myanmar authorities refuse to grant the Special Rapporteur unlimited access to the country. The Myanmari government also refuses to cooperate with the fact-finding mission set up last year. As far as my group is concerned, we need to look at the possibility of international liability for international crimes, including the possibility of calling the perpetrators to account and bringing them to justice before the International Criminal Court. What is the government's commitment and what measures does it take as a host country of international courts and tribunals to counter the impunity enjoyed by the Myanmari authorities in violating human rights and international law? Mr. Chairman. Then the situation of the Uighurs. It seemed as if the minister in his letter about the Uighurs described a wrong movie on Netflix. A high-tech prison where tech guys would lick their fingers off. Suppression the most authoritarian dictators of the past would be jealous of. A people whose fundamental rights are violated. It is a disgrace that the world is watching and not intervening. The Xinjiang region is a police state, in which repression is rule rather than exception. In the past year, the Chinese regime has deported 70,000 police missions, doubling compared to 2016. In the last five years, the number of arrests has increased by 306%. At airports, in squares, in shopping centres and along highways, Uighurs are forced to go through identity and security checks. Uighurs are forced to install an application on their phones so that the Chinese authorities can monitor the content. What is the government's commitment? And what measures does it take to promote respect for international law, which repeatedly violates the Chinese regime in relation to the Uighurs? Interviews with ex-convicts, satellite photos and public information on tenders and vacancies have shown that an estimated one million Muslims are trapped in political re-education camps in Xinjiang. In these centres there is physical and verbal abuse and political indoctrination. Does the Minister agree with my group that the Chinese re-education camps should close immediately? And if so, what means will he use at UN level to make this possible? Is the Minister prepared to plead for the release of the estimated one million Muslims detained in these political re-education centres? Is the Minister prepared to make every effort so that the Chinese regime is held accountable for the human rights violations it is committing against Uighurs? Mr President, concluding. During the AO Morocco we discussed in detail the human rights situation in northern Morocco. DENK is still concerned about the situation in the Rif area. The social malaise in the Rif is increasing. More and more young people and local entrepreneurs choose eggs for their money and leave the Rif area to venture the crossing to Europe. It is a dangerous journey, which has also cost people their lives. The migratory wave from Morocco to Europe is, among other things, the result of the deteriorating socio-economic situation in the Rif and the hopelessness in which many people live, combined with the action of the Moroccan government. People have been arrested, including women and children. I would like to make an urgent appeal to the Minister for explicit attention to be paid to a fair trial during the protesters' appeal. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to do so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u219	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-8.u220	Tomorrow, the continuation of this budget, the Minister's first term, and, if it is right, the second, will be resumed. I suggest we proceed immediately to the VAO Foreign Affairs and Peace Facility Council.
