ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the costs of climate policy. A warm welcome to the Minister. We're gonna start soon. Everyone has three minutes' speaking time. I would suggest that you limit yourself to a maximum of two interruptions, which we do in two. I call Mr Van Raan, the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr President, it says here: two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u3	You'll always be cut by one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u4	Do you hear that? That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u5	No, I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What can you give to the man who already has everything? We're gonna give him three puzzles. We heard he likes puzzles. "The polluter pays is always the most honest principle." That's what Ed Nijpels said as chairman of the Climate Change Council last week. Everyone agreed with him, from left to right, but why is this rarely applied? This is probably because honesty has probably never been a starting point for the climate debate so far. I would like to mention a few painful conclusions from CE Delft's report Indicators for a fair climate policy. The government agreement increases the burden on households faster than that on business. Out of the tax rebates and/or subsidies that we do not need to talk about now, 80% is for the benefit of business. Large companies are getting the pleasures and citizens are bearing the burden, while creating a basis for support is one of the main pillars of the forthcoming climate agreement. That's gonna be really hard. Honesty is also hard to find in the distribution of reduction targets. Where one sector table has been subjected to sampling, the other sector table represents only a minimum fraction of this figure. There are two sectors that are rapidly reducing the remaining carbon budget. Two heads of government must be well taught by the Minister, who is responsible for climate policy. I call them "the master scripts." Two reports from the Rli and CE Delft were published last month with a clear message, which is not new but clear: the production of meat has a major climate impact. The price of meat should be 53% higher. And what does the Minister of LNV do? Yes, she is going on a trade mission to China to promote Dutch veal. Secondly, recently it appeared that aviation's CO emissions have risen again. This will only increase with the expected growth of aviation. And what does the Minister of IenW do? It leaves the sector under the impression that it may grow. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the puzzles. In 2050 cattle industry and aviation together will take full possession of the total amount of greenhouse gas that the Netherlands is allowed to emit. The total CO budget to cattle and flies, and the rest nothing; that is contrary to the Minister's policy. How will the Minister reconcile this incompatibility? I'd like a response. That's puzzle one. It takes a long time to polder. The longer that takes, the more necessary the measure. The more necessary the measure is, the smaller the level of support. How does the Minister solve this dilemma? That's puzzle two. Since the coalition agreement several reports tell us that climate change is moving faster than expected. How is the Minister going to manage the inevitable interim adjustments, taking into account his sacred trinity's support, cost-efficiency and "it should be fun"? That's puzzle three. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. I call Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week the progress of the new climate agreement was presented. The need to reach an ambitious agreement quickly is great, but why is it forgotten the most important thing? That is: what does this mean for the people who it is? Climate policy is already leading to inequality. More and more households are unable to pay their energy bills. As far as the SP is concerned, we must do everything we can to reduce this inequality rather than constantly increase it. As far as we are concerned, it is disappointing that the chairman of the Climate Change Council acknowledges that the forthcoming policy will have major income effects but does not seem to see any need to do something with them. The Minister responsible also pretends that this is just a bunch of noise in the margins. You can transfer billions of dollars to Shell and consorts, but keep your back when it comes to the inhabitants of the country. "No, we don't do income policy with climate policy," I hear... Oh, there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mrs. Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u10	We also had a debate on this a few weeks ago. At that time we also talked about acceptance, and I mean fair cost sharing. I believe that the Minister has already indicated in his reply that he considers it very important to repair all this through purchasing power plates. So the Minister clearly pays attention to this. Or is that not true according to Mrs. Beckerman of the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u11	As far as the SP is concerned, that's not true. You and I, and a lot of households in the Netherlands who are much more difficult to pay, pay through their energy tax a rate that is 100 times as high, I repeat: 100 times as high as the rate paid by large consumers, large consumers such as Shell. One: that is unfair, because a lot of people can no longer pay their energy bills. Two: it doesn't work, because last year Shell just started to emit more instead of less. So I think climate policy is unfair at the moment and not effective at the same time. That is why I call for a fair climate policy. As far as I am concerned, this means that equality in the new climate agreement must be an essential and not to be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u12	Equality is, I think, now in policy in the sense that 50% is for households and 50% for businesses. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer to the question about purchasing power figures, because I think that is precisely what Mrs Beckerman would like, namely that you should meet people in this way. Then you don't do income policy through the energy charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u13	You say that there is equality, because the households pay 50% and the companies pay 50%. One: households are not responsible for 50% of emissions. Companies, especially large companies, account for 70% to 80% of emissions. So it's bizarre that half the bill goes to households. Two: the revenue pool, so what we spend it on, goes back to the companies for the most part. Of the small part that goes to households, 80% goes to the richest households. I repeat once again: that is not fair and it does not work, because the Netherlands is still a major polluter and Shell is only going to emit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u14	I had a question similar to that of Mrs Mulder. Since we don't really get an answer to that, I'm gonna try something else. Almost all of us here are trying to shape the energy transition in a correct way and ensure that it is affordable. I think we all recognise that it is going to cost us all money. I find it complicated that Mrs Beckerman has actually been saying here for a long time: households are only going to pay more, and that is a great shame. We all want it to be affordable and sustainable. But the SP election programme says that after 2021, more than 5 billion are simply passed on to families, to those households you stood up for just as well. How am I supposed to rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u15	We have had our programme passed on by two bodies: the CPB and the PBL. In the CPB transfer, you can see that we want a fair distribution of that extra tax. We want to bring it down to the big companies and we want to spare the households. Unfortunately, that went wrong in the PBL transfer. You don't see in that that we want that fair distribution. Perhaps you should take a look at the CPB transfer account, because then you will see how we have it in our program and how it was correctly calculated. You did not have your program passed through the PBL. If you think this is so important, it might be a good idea for us to do it all next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u16	In my opinion, the CPB notes that the SP programme and the programmes of a few other parties include costs after 2021 which are not included but which will end up directly with those families through the ODE. I can show you the lyrics. I'll give you the pages in a minute. There is clearly the analysis that more than 5 billion are being passed on to families. So let's look at how we can achieve a good distribution in the design of the energy transition. But don't constantly say in a kind of racket shop "it's a disgrace what's happening" if right support is a very central point of the climate agreement of all the parties here. Let's stay a little fair, so everyone who watches at home knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u17	It's a good thing you're saying for the first time that the ODE account needs to be fairer. That's not fair. We have previously put forward a proposal to divide that account according to how much you pollute: let companies pay more and let households and small businesses pay less. Unfortunately, you did not support that, but we can, of course, submit it again, if you would like. Indeed, it is extremely important that we have a fair energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u18	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u19	I would have stuck to the idea that this climate policy is unfair and not working. I told you, Shell's just gonna blow more. That's what I want to talk about right now in this section. This debate is about climate costs and who has to pay. An important question is who should pay the cost of reducing and eventually stopping gas extraction. This week there was a lot of news about the NAM, Shell and Exxon. In January Shell said fine words: we are not going to pay any more dividends and we are not going to receive any more dividends from the NAM. What happens in April? The fine words of January do not prove to be a reality. They paid more dividends to Shell and Exxon. Do they have enough cash to pay for all these damages and reinforcements? And then we also know that the Minister is negotiating with Shell and Exxon compensation for stopping gas extraction. As far as the SP is concerned, we do not pay a cent of compensation. I would like to receive a commitment from the Minister that this is indeed the case. Then the NAM also says this week: we want less responsibility in the Mining Act, less responsibility. So many houses, destroying so many dreams and then not taking responsibility now? We believe that their share of the account should absolutely not be passed on to the inhabitants. As far as we are concerned, the core of a fair and just climate policy is to combat this unequal distribution of lusts and burdens. Put the bill where it belongs: with the big polluters and not with the families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u20	Then you will, Mrs. Beckerman. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. This morning there was a report in the newspaper that farmers who allow solar panels on their agricultural land can receive a land payment of €8,000 per hectare. If they grow onions, potatoes or beet, they have to work hard, make a lot of effort, they are at risk, including weather risks, and then the yield is €2,500 per hectare. €8,000 that can be caught for making land available for solar panels without any effort being made and without any risk being incurred. I would like to give farmers €8,000 per hectare, but this is paid for to a large extent from the SDE+ grant, which is provided by the government. The joy of distributing a subsidy is preceded by the suffering of taxation. The subsidy is paid from the renewable energy envelope. If you want to undermine the support for the energy transition, you have to allow this type of property and income redistribution to emerge and survive. The point I want to make is that the energy transition is accompanied by huge income and capital redistributions for both citizens and businesses. And it has an impact on public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u22	We had a similar discussion a few years ago on the ground remuneration for windmills. When it turned out that it was the State, Domains, that made the price increase, because on a national level the top prize was asked. It came to one minister and the other minister had to spend it. Is this by any chance also going on with these land prices for the solar panels meadows?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u23	An effect is similar, namely that scarcity drives up the price. In particular, land close to an electricity connection and capable of rapid operation is subject to a high remuneration. But also for wind energy, 6,000 megawatts per year, farmers receive a fee of €10,000 to €15,000 per megawatt per year. This means that if you have three wind turbines of a pack of 3 megawatts on your soil, you'll soon cash a ton a year. I've said once in a while, you can buy a new Mercedes every year and you don't even have to trade in the old one. I do not think that is an effective use of public finances. It is simply being over-compensated and I think we should be aware of this type of income redistribution effects, regardless of whether they are created by the National Land Office or by other causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u24	But if it is us who cause this, the beginning of the solution is there. Perhaps we could ask this Minister together. At the time, Minister Kamp promised that he would make sure that the land price went down smoothly after he found out that we, as the State itself, were first raising the land price and then calling it a disgrace: look at what those farmers catch there. Should this also be the case in the case of fields of sunbathing, I would like to ask the Minister, together with the PvdA, to look into this and at least ensure that the State is not the one driving up the land price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u25	I also think the Minister should take a look at it. As far as I am concerned, he does not have to answer this case here. I have also asked written questions about this. It does illustrate the impact of the energy transition on the distribution of income and wealth and on public finances. For example, we want to get rid of fossil fuels and petrol and diesel, but petrol and diesel are worth nearly 8 billion in fuel taxes per year. How are we going to replace this tax base in the future? Mr. Chairman. My point is that the Labour Party wants much more insight into the income and wealth redistribution that takes place under the waterline during the energy transition. In previous debates, the Minister stated that the purchasing power figures will be reviewed annually in August, but in August it will not be shown that a farmer has such an advantage in the field of sunbathing. All this is not visible in the purchasing power picture. Mr Nijpels' presentation to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities stated that the funding of the energy transition was important. Someone from APG flew in there, and I'm thinking of looking at how to generate investor capital. That is covered, but I really think it is a gap that the climate tables do not carry out a study of income and capital redistribution or a study of the impact it has on public finances. To my taste, you should not look at that year by year; these are truly long-term processes. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to fill that gap in the process architecture of the energy and climate tables. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party supports the energy transition, but not at any cost. The Minister must make a real effort to clarify income and wealth redistribution and also make the impact on public finances crystal clear. As far as I'm concerned, he has to get to work on that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u27	I fully agree with Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party: we need to ensure that the burden-sharing of climate policy is fair and we need to look carefully at which groups are disproportionately affected by the choice we are making. I am struggling a little with Mr Moorlag's call for this to be asked at the climate tables, because there are companies and there are NGOs. Are those really the parties that have to decide for us how to distribute those costs in a fair way? Or is that really primarily a task of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u28	In the end, that is a task of politics. It must be considered politically, but it must be made clear. We don't have enough focus on what impact this has. Let me give you another concrete example: the housing issue. For 30 years, 250,000 homes have to be preserved per year. If this costs €20,000 per house, 5 billion will have to be invested every year. Where do you get the investment capital? Which people are able to finance that themselves? There is an issue in which a homeowner increases his mortgage and can deduct interest from the tax; tenants are likely to get it directly, one-on-one, translated into the rent. Those kinds of processes are already visible. I think that this white spot really needs to be filled in so that we can carry out our political task properly and make the right weighting. So I am not asking for the distribution to be left at the tables, but I am asking for it to be understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u29	Well, then, luckily, we're a little more in agreement than I just thought. Fortunately, it is also the task of the climate tables to examine what financing structures are possible to make some of these measures possible. In my opinion, this must be done at these tables, but even then, with the financing structures, we will have to note that, under the lines, certain groups pay more or less. And those solutions, I think, really need to be devised in the Chamber and not in the polder. But I think that we are largely in line in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u30	We are on the same page when it comes to financing. Flying in expertise from APG is simply good, also to see how to get investment capital from institutional investors. But the effects on income and wealth redistribution in both citizens and businesses and the impact on public finances are, in my opinion, not sufficiently addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would prefer Dutch farmers to earn €10,000 from sunbathing fields and therefore to make money from the energy transition rather than going to foreign investors. I think that some people in this Chamber agree with me. So let companies and let people make a reasonable profit from the energy transition and then you get more of it. That energy transition is a challenge and a huge operation, where we have to have an acceptable burden-sharing because otherwise we are not going to get it done. What we also need is a number of appealing early successes and a government pointing one direction. I cannot explain to people that they have to cost above ground to get rid of the gas, while they are also told that a new gas field is being drilled under their homes, that there is a waste water injection nearby or that gas is being stored in a gas field. We all know that in order to stop the increasing costs of climate change, there must in any case remain large quantities of fossil fuels underground, one third of all oil reserves worldwide, half of gas reserves and 80% of coal reserves. Where better to start leaving gas reserves underground than in the Netherlands, in Groningen? We've had quite a bit of news from Shell and the NAM this week. These big companies have given the Netherlands a lot of prosperity but they have also made good money from it. When it comes to making that energy transition and reducing gas extraction, NAM as well as its shareholders Shell and ExxonMobil have announced that they would prefer to get rid of some of the responsibilities. The more parties in the media say that they have had constructive talks for a very long time, the more concerned I am as a parliamentarians. I will come up with a motion which I hope will be supported by this Minister. This motion is intended to give the Chamber the opportunity to express its support as a single person for this minister that, in terms of the distribution of lusts and burdens for those companies, NAM and Shell simply, according to the existing distribution, take responsibility for the current mining damage and also for the future mining damage and for the reinforcement. Because when I hear Ben van Beurden and Marjan van Loon in the audience, I see a retreating movement which leads to an imbalance in the costs of that part of the energy transition for our citizens. And then, unfortunately, I'm out of time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I now give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A debate on the cost of climate policy. When I look at the list of speakers, I see no less than nine spokesmen taking part in it. That is a bit surprising, because I can tell you that all those parties, from GroenLinks to the VVD, do not want to know at all how much climate policy costs. PVV-movements that call on the government to map the total cost of the operation and no more than that amount are voted away by this Chamber time and time again. So you don't want to know, and the Minister won't tell me. So what exactly are we doing here in this debate? At a time when households' energy bills are rising and rising unbridled, it seems that the flight is being chosen forward. Parties strongly in favour of climate policy are now suddenly starting to worry about their exorbitantly high costs. A little hypocritical. But this minister is also a hypocrite. In his letter to the Chamber, he writes that the climate and energy transition must and must remain affordable. Hundreds of billions. Does the minister call that affordable? Households who are no longer able to pay the account. Is that affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would like to object to the fact that Mr Kops calls the Minister a hypocrite. You can condemn policy, you can say whatever you want, but you can condemn a human being here! This Minister represents a very important role in our democratic system. I therefore object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u36	It's been noted. I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren. You could question the Minister critically, but "hypocrite" may not be such a proper qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u37	Well, Mr. Chairman, I think I'm talking about my own words. That's what I'm telling Mrs. Van Tongeren. It's as simple as that. We can disagree, fine. But, Mr President, I would also like you, as leader of this debate, to remain objective and not interfere with my words. I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u38	I'd like to respond to that. I am not talking at all about the content of the debate, but I am dealing here with the way we treat each other. And that is exactly what Mrs Van Tongeren made a comment about. If you had made that comment, I would have given you the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u39	Fine, and I responded to that. So, Mr. Chairman, I mentioned the Minister hypocrite, and I still do. Hundreds of billions, is that affordable? Households who can't pay the bill anymore, is that affordable? What does this minister, who practically wrote a blank cheque, mean by "affordable" at all? Can he explain that? Climate and energy transition is simply not affordable. And the so-called fairer distribution of the burden between citizens and businesses, to which we have heard the Minister but also the other parties, is in practice a farce. This is purely intended to fool the citizens again, for the umpteenth time. Companies simply charge these costs in their products or services. So despite all the nice talk, to the left or to the right, the bill always ends up with the citizens. How does the Minister see this fairer distribution in practice? A while ago, the Minister said that we have not forgotten that the climate and energy transition will cost up to 3% of GDP each year, and that for the next 30 years. If we then start to count, we will end up with a sum of EUR 630 billion. 630 billion! Can the Minister respond to that? How the hell are people supposed to bring that up? Mr. Chairman. Affordability must be at the forefront. The climate agreement must not be reached and we must talk about affordability here. Affordability must be decisive. That means for every sane person: stop that energy transition before we all go bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Kops. Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are on the eve of a major change, and in fact it has already been used carefully: the energy transition. However, many measures must now be taken to protect the quality of life and our climate. It's gonna take a lot of action. Think about the gas tap. And that brings with it a lot and a lot of costs. No one knows exactly how much these costs will be. It is, of course, also very difficult to establish this, but it is important that this distribution is proportionate. Fortunately, more parties are calling for attention to be paid to this. According to a report by CE Delft, the costs are going to be enormous in the coming years. With the current system, a low-income household will lose up to 17% of its income to climate policy costs in the future. That is disproportionate and also unreasonable. CE Delft rightly states that it is necessary to formulate a fair cost policy. That is to say, on the one hand, according to the 'polluter pays' principle and, on the other hand, the strongest should bear the heavy burden. This applies at international level, but also at national level. In order to create and maintain long-term support, this justice is vital. At the moment there is no such thing as justice, and it has to be different. And that's what it's all about, starting with the 20% and 80% distributions. A number of measures are proposed. The polluter pays, both small and large consumers, the same amount per tonne of CO2. The lowest income groups are compensated for their energy costs and companies that cannot pass on the high energy costs are compensated. It does indeed make a lot of difference when large companies place many solar panels on their roofs, but that also applies to the many individuals combined. Many small consumers are also a large consumer. I would like a response from the Minister to these recommendations. And finally, the reports about Shell, Exxon and the NAM. It's been mentioned for a while. That doesn't reassure 50PLUS at all, as does Shell's reaction that a claim for damages isn't at issue right now. What do you mean, not now? - You're gonna be okay In addition, the costs of the reinforcement operation are also subject to discussion. That could go a long way. 50PLUS would like to know from the Minister how he will act in this discussion. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. Mr Jetten van D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. D66 is fully committed to achieving the Paris climate agreement. This will require a significant change in the years to come. Our homes away from gas, circular agriculture, circular handling of raw materials and more renewable energy. This climate policy in order to achieve that, we need to design smartly so that we save as much CO as possible in an efficient way and with a fair sharing of costs. A fair distribution between governments, businesses and consumers, and a fair distribution between generations. Let me start with that last point, because it has so far been very little. Mr. Chairman. If we really want to avoid too much global warming, we have to eliminate almost all of our CO emissions by 2050. This also calls for a strong commitment in the coming years to prevent future generations from having to pay the real bill in ten and twenty years' time. D66 is therefore pleased that we agreed in the coalition agreement to save 49% CO until 2030, but that we are focusing on 55%, so that we are really moving forward. In the climate policy of the coming years, we also want to take this 55% scenario into account as far as possible until 2030. Can the Minister promise that we will take this into account in climate policy and in the climate agreement so that we do not burden future generations in the Netherlands with excessive consideration? A fair distribution is also that everyone should be able to participate. This transition is going to cost money and we need to distribute it as fairly as possible. CE Delft's credit transfers show that these high costs are to a large extent borne by lower-income households. Differences with households with higher incomes are also increasing. And the gap between low-income households and business is also widening with unchanged policies. We have to prevent that. Then I would like to talk to the Minister, who says: support goes through the wallet, and that certainly applies to the energy transition. How does the Minister reconcile the results of CE Delft with his statement "portance goes through the wallet"? What does this mean for the way in which we are going to organise the climate agreement and climate policy? Perhaps it will help us if the Minister takes some more into account how, as I did with Mr Moorlag in an interrupting debate, we are going to share the potential financial impact of the climate agreement fairly. Mr. Chairman. There is also low-hanging fruit, especially for households with lower incomes. A large part of the cost for households is now related to the energy bill. We can quickly bring it down if we switch massively to LED lighting. For households with a small wallet switching to LED lighting is now often too big an investment. When it comes to D66, the government, together with municipalities, housing corporations and lighting providers, will come up with ways to also allow households with a small wallet to make that switch, so that they can save a number of tens per year on the energy bill, but also emit significantly less CO. What chance does the Minister see of a massive switch to LED lighting in Dutch households, including microfinance? Finally, Mr President. In order to achieve a fair distribution, we must ensure that the polluter pays; it was also mentioned. That is why we agreed in the government agreement on the introduction of Maut, a tax on airline tickets and a minimum CO price for the energy sector. On that last point, I have one specific question, because we must not allow this minimum price for CO to have perverse effects in the energy sector. It seems that the first thing to fall is the gas plants, which now absorb the peak load in our energy needs. I wouldn't want us to have to catch the peaks right away with coal power stations. I'd rather the coal plants shut down first. I am curious how the Minister takes the risk of these gas plants into account in the development of the CO price for the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mrs. Beckerman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u45	This debate concerns the cost of climate policy and the question of who should pay the bill. As far as I am concerned, one of the pressing questions is: who is going to pay the bill for turning off the gas tap in Groningen? What do you think of the recent reports that the NAM wants to run away from its responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u46	I understand the temptation to say a lot about that now, but I'd rather do that in a few weeks' time, if the Minister hopefully has more information on how things are going. Over the past few months, we've taken some historic steps on the Groningen file. There's a decent damage settlement without the NAM and we're gonna stop the gas extraction completely. Those are two successes I'm proud of. There are now two very important tasks for this minister: a decent reinforcement operation that does justice to all the problems that Groningers experiences in terms of insecurity of the houses, and good agreements with the NAM on how to get to that zero. I hear reports in the media about damages claims. It seems very strange to me if there is a claim for damages because we decide to go to zero for the safety of the Groningers. We also know that the Minister is talking to NAM, Shell and Exxon about how we're gonna cut off gas in a good way over the next ten years and divide things up. I am confident that the Minister will conduct these negotiations in a good way. Otherwise, we're gonna have a big debate with him in a couple of weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u47	I would also find it very strange if there were a claim for damages. In fact, I would like to say right now that we shouldn't have to pay a penny of compensation to Shell and Exxon. I hope you agree. The Minister is currently negotiating. Shouldn't we just give him a motion to speak out, so that it's quite clear that we're not going to compensate in any way and that we're not going to unilaterally pass the bill for the disaster that's been caused to the households?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u48	Again, I would find it very strange if these companies were to file a claim for damages because we have all decided here that we are going to zero for the safety of the Groningers with gas extraction. In my view, the Minister also clearly knows that no one here in the Chamber is waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u49	I have just outlined that the energy transition is accompanied by a huge redistribution of income and wealth. Mr Jetten acknowledges that, but if I understand correctly, the proposal to organise microfinance for LED lamps is the only concrete proposal in his speech. Is that D66's answer to that huge income and wealth redistribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u50	We need, of course, a comprehensive package of measures in the coming years to ensure that we can achieve the energy transition and that we do so in a fair way. However, I do not think that the debate on this is so much part of a 30-member debate with the climate spokesmen and the climate minister. In addition to the energy transition, there are dozens of other issues that have an impact on purchasing power plates and on a fair distribution of the burden in this country. So we also have to look together at these moments to see how the purchasing power plates develop over the next few years, which groups we may need to spare and which groups might be able to contribute extra. We will not solve this in such a debate with the Minister of Climate Change. I can see some low-hanging fruit. I am referring, among other things, to the switch to LED lighting. I do see a role for this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u51	I also hear Mr Jetten saying that we need to look at purchasing power figures, but then you are dealing with the issue from one year to the next. Well, that's incident-controlled. It is then a tenth of a percentage per year. But this is the big picture until 2050. Does Mr Jetten share the view that it would be a good idea to give a very systematic picture of the impact on income and wealth redistribution and on public finances? I would like to mention, for example, the question of fuel taxes. One would say that there should be a financing table parallel to the energy and climate tables, so that we can think about this type of issue, so that we can assess it in conjunction, not occasional and fragmented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u52	In my view, we exchanged enough in the debate the other day that the climate agreement in particular looks closely at financing structures. That belongs there as far as I'm concerned. I fully agree with Mr Moorlag that we should look at the bigger picture, but I am not just looking at the cost of the energy transition. I also look at the costs of, for example, care and the development of all the burdens that we impose on citizens in this country. In this larger picture, I believe that we must determine with each other whether we have fairly divided the burden. If necessary, you help one group more than another, but you do not do so in a debate with the Minister of Climate Change, but in the General Political Reviews and in debates with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Social Affairs and so on. But we agree that this must be distributed fairly. The energy transition must also have a place in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u53	I would like to congratulate Mr Jetten, but in fact all the coalition parties, for opening up the coalition agreement, which will allow gas extraction to go down. I think that is a great step forward. I was also very happy to hear Mr Jetten say that a claim for damages from the NAM, Shell or Exxon is not on the table for him. But you can pack a claim in all kinds of ways and put it in a different jacket, such as a financial arrangement or a tax arrangement. Aren't they on the agenda, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think we should simply look at how the Minister is holding talks with the companies in the coming weeks. As far as I am concerned, we are going to stop extracting gas in Groningen and we must do this in a decent way. I can imagine that the Minister is negotiating a complete package on this with the companies involved. I would like to say once again that, as far as I am concerned, this is not even the greatest task that the Minister now has in Groningen. That is a good agreement with the region on how we are going to strengthen Groningen. We will also need the NAM, Shell and Exxon for that. So once again, I wish this Minister every success in the coming weeks with all the discussions he is having on this subject. I would like to have the debate with him on the overall package if it is in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u55	Of course, and there will be many more debates. The Minister is negotiating now. However, it makes a difference whether we give him today that different financial and fiscal arrangements and a different distribution of responsibilities are possible, or whether we say: it must simply be fair and fair and such a large company cannot be under its responsibilities for strengthening and compensating for the damage. That is the position of GroenLinks and I am curious whether D66 gives the Minister room or says: the legal division of responsibilities is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think that this minister has surprised us quite a bit over the last few months with the new damage protocol and the complete cessation of gas extraction in Groningen. I have every confidence that he will surprise us again in the next few months. First of all, besides the damage protocol and in addition to stopping gas extraction, we have a proper reinforcement operation for Groningen, even better in its implementation than is the case at present. This must be agreed fairly and fairly between the Empire, the region and the companies involved. I think that this Minister, with the task of reaching a fair and fair deal, will surely return to this Chamber with a good result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mrs Mulder from the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr President, thank you. For my part, we have a debate on the cost of climate policy here in this House every week. Also this week, on CE Delft's report on indicators for a fair climate policy. We think this is a good thing, because we find that people are concerned about the energy transition and what it means to them individually. Our people are wondering: what is to come? Because there are no concrete plans at present, there is a danger that people will not see opportunities for themselves and therefore feel unheard of. Then there can be resistance to an energy transition. In the end, we'll be worse off together. The CDA therefore wants the cabinet to take our residents and support them in the energy transition. Last week, the chairman of the Climate Council, Mr Ed Nijpels, indicated in a technical briefing in this House that, on the basis of a motion from the House of Representatives, he is going to do his best to bring input from individual residents and the smaller business community to those climate tables. How else are they heard? Mr. Chairman. It is also good to know that at these climate tables there are also parties that directly represent our inhabitants, such as the municipalities and the provinces. Of course, as representatives of the people, we also enter into the debate in this House on the final result of the climate tables. And yet the question arises as to how we can ensure that we give sufficient voice to the interests of households, tenants, consumers and smaller businesses vis-à-vis all those professional parties such as larger businesses and environmental organisations. How can we ensure that their interests are properly taken into account? Does the Minister share these concerns from the CDA? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the letter from the minister in which he responds to the CE Delft report, he states that we need to look at the overall purchasing power picture of our residents. That seems to us as a CDA to be a very valid starting point. Last week, the Minister for the Interior referred to this Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate last week when it was about the costs for vulnerable groups who rent. Energy costs are part of inflation in purchasing power, but this inflation is very different from high and low incomes, old and new homes, rents and purchases. That's why the CDA wants us to be able to monitor vulnerable groups. We want to know what this means for the middle incomes. Our party wonders whether the purchasing power plates give enough insight into this, for example for low incomes with a buying house and for older people with AOW in a rental house. Are the purchasing power cards sufficiently equipped for this? What about the reduction of additional costs for SMEs? How does the Minister intend to take into account purchasing power? We would like some additional answers from this minister. I would like to make a comment about the Monitor Brede Prosperity, which also plays a role in this. I think that role is very important, also towards the future. I would like to take a special look at Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term... Excuse me, I'm making a mistake. I call Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD. I'd give you almost an extra minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u60	That won't be necessary, Mr. Chairman. I'm not saying it here for the first time, and probably not for the last time. It is necessary that we are working on this energy transition. I have often said it here: it is the greatest task we face today. I think that almost all parties in this Chamber are aware of that. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are taking up the opportunities that this energy transition offers us with both hands and focusing it so that it strengthens our economy, means job creation and provides the security of safe and affordable energy. All those Dutch for whom we are here, want to leave our planet well behind for generations after us. We all see that fossil fuels are finite. And that means switching to new, sustainable fuels in order not to be structurally dependent on dubious regimes in the long term. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore necessary to talk here about climate tables, CO reduction and less megatons. But we must continue to realise that these developments are abstract for people who follow them at a distance and create uncertainty. There is no way that wrong information and worrying pilot balloons that are regularly helped in the world will help. Think about the message from a few weeks ago. Then it was suddenly said: we must ban that central heating boiler within a few years. Without saying what affordable alternatives there are. How would these people be able to finance those alternatives if they did not have thousands of euros on the table? So you shouldn't shape it like that. Think of this week's report in the newspaper that nearly 130,000 windmills will be scattered all over the country. People have a right to facts. They need to know what they're up to and know what their choices are. Everyone understands that this energy transition will not be free, but people want to understand what it will cost them and what it will cost them. With texts like "49% CO reduction" we have not yet made concrete what it means for my neighbor and for the baker on the corner. Even for me, it's complicated to see that concretely for me. We need all these people to do that transition, because we can't do that with 150's here in this house. Mr. Chairman. Of course we all want an answer, but unfortunately we still have to be patient, because these climate tables come with measures around the summer. The VVD wants, as the colleague of the CDA has just said, that the interests of Dutch households are well taken into account. We are still not satisfied with that. Has it been considered, for example, to invite the Association Eigen Huis or the Consumers' Association to those tables and to charge the costs from the consumer's point of view, for example by the Central Planning Bureau? Because, Mr President, I would like to say again: this mega operation is or falls with the support of everyone in our country. That is why they deserve us to take their concerns and questions seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u61	There's another question for you from Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u62	I thought it was a very nice speech, actually. You also said quite clearly: people have a right to know where they stand. I can only agree wholeheartedly with that. That is, of course, true for the Groningen people. I would like to ask you to answer a simple question, yes or no, whether you agree with me that the NAM, Shell and Exxon should not receive a penny for reducing gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. I think that is a very important question. I have had a lot of questions about this in the last two days, and I have said the same thing all the time. The government's commitment is extremely clear: NAM is and remains responsible for the damage. That's the bet. The Minister is then discussing how to design this phase-out, but it is clear that we too believe that the safety of the Groningen people is central and that gas extraction needs to be reduced. That commitment has always been clear. Then we can see what the Minister is coming back with and we have the substantive debate on this. We cannot do these negotiations here, but the NAM is and will remain entirely responsible for the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u64	I can't get an answer to my question. I actually asked quite simply: do you think, yes or no, that the NAM, Shell and Exxon should be able to get compensation for reducing gas extraction? You are referring to the government, but we are representatives of the people and we have a duty of our own. It could be to give the minister something now. We don't just check afterwards, we also give things in advance. You now say "Groningers, wait a moment," while you made such a fine plea about clarity. You can now clarify simply by saying: I think yes, they should be compensated or no, that they should not be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u65	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not saying, "Groningers, wait a minute." I say: Groningers, I am extremely happy that we can offer more and more clarity step by step, that the damage protocol is there, that people know that their damage will be well compensated, that they know that NAM is out. That's crucial for the Groningen people. I had another visit with Groningers today. They say: we are glad that steps are being taken here, we can finally think about our lives just picking up again and perspective for Groningen. That's what they deserve! I think the Minister has heard from almost all parties here: do your thing, go and make sure you take care of this properly. He's got all the support he needs. I think that we are incredibly clear, also towards Shell, NAM and Exxon, that we say: the damage will simply be compensated, the Groningers should have nothing to do with it, they should know where they can go. For the rest, we are going to see what the Minister comes up with, but I think the commitment of the Chamber and the Cabinet is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you. Then we're with that... No, one more question from Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u67	I'm gonna try again anyway. Does the VVD with GroenLinks think that Shell and NAM should simply fulfil all current legal and contractual obligations, or does the VVD give space to Shell and NAM to partially fail to fulfil those obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Chairman. I'm used to it from GroenLinks. Frankly, they want to open negotiations here in the Chamber. I remember a motion in which Mrs van Tongeren said: the coal power stations must be shut down, it may cost up to 50 million, but Minister make sure you get away with less. Don't negotiate like that! The stakes are incredibly clear. In my opinion, we all think that the damage should simply be compensated, which is done by the organizations, which is done by NAM, which is done by Shell, which is done by Exxon. You've heard it yourself from Shell's forewife. It is incredibly clear what we stand for together, what our commitment is and what the Groningers stand for. But you cannot say: we are going to open the negotiations here with each other and we are giving the Minister what the stakes are. It doesn't work like that. We are absolutely in favour of compensation for the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mrs. Van Tongeren, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u70	If that is so incredibly clear, why is there such an incredible confusion with almost all Groningers, but also Groningen directors, the King's Commissioner and in the media, about whether NAM and Shell get a deal, whether there will be a tax arrangement and whether the damage will be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mrs. Van Tongeren, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u72	Are they stupid or are we that smart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u73	I also speak incredibly many Groningers and the Groningers I speak are very pleased with clarity, with the reduction of gas extraction, knowing where the damage counter is and that they can recover damage. Groningers are busy picking up their lives in the perspective of Groningen. They understand that the Minister is working very hard to arrange it all very well for them. That's what the Groningers I'm talking to say. I don't know who you're talking to, but people understand what's happening here and are happy with the steps they're seeing. Indeed, there are still a lot of steps that we have to take together to ensure that Groningen has a perspective. That's what we're doing. One part of this is the talks the minister has with Shell, NAM and Exxon. But those damages will be compensated, and that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u74	And then it became a bit of a Groningen debate. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the minister. Can you proceed with the response immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr President, perhaps a procedural proposal. I did not specifically prepare for Groningen today, but for this debate itself. Of course, I see all the unrest in society. I recognize them, too. I would also like the Minister to drag everything out for us and that it does not cost us a penny, let that be very clear, but this is not the debate for that. I find this a little uncomfortable. I get it, because this is the next debate where you can do it, but I find it uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mrs. Mulder, may I interrupt you? There are now three people on the Interrupt Microphone. It is quite clear what this debate is about. We're not having a discussion about that here. I think it is also very clear which line the questions were asked along. That's finished now. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister. Mrs. Van Tongeren, I've been very generous already. You've already had three interruptions instead of two, so I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u77	I'd like to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u78	Very briefly. That is now also a trick, 'a personal fact', because I cannot refuse to do so. Then what's the personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u79	I specifically requested a 15-minute debate on this subject on Tuesday to table a motion. There was no such possibility. That's why part of Groningen is in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u80	That didn't seem like a personal fact to me. If you continue to talk about this in the corridors, I can now give the floor to the Minister. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. I think that the people present here will have noticed it all in the pass-through of their election programme: the climate transition, the energy transition, costs money. I think there are many in this Chamber who have said that the burden side is important. There's one thing I have to laugh about. I agree with important parts of Mrs Beckerman, but I would never have said that the cost and expense side is noisy. It's always been my most important point. The burden is always very decisive for acceptance, but I would add: the jobs are also. I'll get to that in a minute. Mrs Beckerman's partymates do have a thing for jobs. These costs are important because we see them, not only in the energy bill, but also through taxes, through the rent, through the cost to our own home and through product prices. Sometimes they end up in inflation somehow. One way or another, we're all gonna end up with us. I understand the debate on the division between companies and individuals, but in the end it is a bit of a sham contradiction because there is no one else who can bear the costs important to control costs in all areas. That's a primary goal. I have also made a commitment on this cost-sharing between citizens and businesses, which we have discussed several times in this Chamber. Of course, it is logical to allow the primary user to pay for these costs first, unless this is clearly at the expense of the playing field that these companies either withdraw production and not the companies themselves. Then we have double bad luck, because then it is produced abroad in a less climate-neutral way and the jobs disappear. So no benefits, but disadvantages. We don't want that. That's where we're gonna jump in a little bit. One time, I believe, in the budgetary procedure, I promised the Chamber that I would have the calibration done again. That's what PricewaterhouseCoopers is doing right now. It's coming to this room. I hope it's still before the summer. Then we can discuss this again, because 'polluter pays' is, of course, paramount; that is a logical principle. But as long as there is no global CO price, you can't do that all the time. As there is more CO pricing, and there will be, you can do more and it will automatically. This is not something that only I find attractive, but that is what the industry and the electricity producers themselves say. That's in everyone's best interest. This means that we have to pay attention to the effects of these costs. The burden side is important. We all read in CE Delft's report that the cost of transition is a higher percentage of the income of people who earn little compared to those who make a lot of money. Yeah, that's no wonder. Energy but also food and housing are just a larger part of income when income is lower. This is a bit of the rediscovery of gravity. Of course, we have to take that into account. No, it's not static. I hear Mrs Sazias say that the strongest should bear the heavy burden. Well, then I say to Mrs Sazias, welcome to the Netherlands! You live in one of the countries where this is most true. Moreover, you also live in the country in which those strongest shoulders are more than in any other country among the elderly. Yes, the principle of carrying capacity is celebrated in this country. That means we have to look at that every year. Purchasing power policy is generic. We ask that question at the CPB and not at CE Delft. I'm not asking the CPB for isolation advice either. These CPB calculations are at the service of the Chamber, because there is no one who ultimately decides on the distribution of income and the purchasing power effects other than this Chamber. That's not what the climate tables do, it doesn't do CE Delft and it doesn't even do the CPB, but you do it together here. That's how we handled it in this country, and that's how it's done. We do that in a generic way. This is also important because I think it is unwise and inefficient to regulate this for one category of expenditure, specifically for energy. We shouldn't do that. There are countries where you have specific subsidies for energy or purchasing power support. They do that in Venezuela, but for the time being this is not considered a successful experiment among economists. Then it is important that this Chamber gets the right information. Someone who is quite consistent, I must say, complains about the amount of information is Mr Kops, who always says that we do not know the costs. We know a lot about the costs, because in the last calculations of the Planning Bureau for the Environment there are cost estimates. There are many cost estimates and as we move on it becomes increasingly clear. In the end, it is always up to this Chamber to determine its distribution and to decide on the legislative or allocation of budgets there, because that is what nobody else does but this Chamber. In different ways, we keep an eye on that. I have promised that in future every National Energy Exploratory will pass on the energy bill of different types of households, so that you can understand what the ex-ante effect is, not the ex-post effect on the different households. Well, we know that the PBL has decided that there will be no NEV this year, because we are so busy with that climate agreement. But we'll get the pass-through. That is an important piece of information, which is provided. Eventually, the whole climate agreement will be passed on. In addition, I would like to come straight to Mr Moorlag's point, which made me think a little bit. Look, a passing on of the climate agreement will soon be some kind of purchasing power income-like thing, but he's actually making it broader. He says that all kinds of power are affected by this. The value of land could change, or land in windy areas. It could be. Of course, we also have the carbon bubble. Let's face it, it's just a part of it. That's also value that could evaporate. We will come back to this later in the context of the gas extraction in Groningen. Let me do it this way for a minute, and I'll have to think about it. I think it's a serious suggestion. I'd like to think about how I'd see the problem myself. I would like to put that against Mr Moorlag's speech. Perhaps when answering his written questions, for example, I would like to link something to that. I would like to look for a coat hook to come back to this request. I don't think it's silly, but I'm thinking about it. I look at him, he looks ponderous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr Moorlag, in turn, will have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u83	I do appreciate the Minister's words. Look, it's important that we look at the purchasing power effects from year to year. But we have to look at the long term. We know that this is going to intervene deeply in people's power positions, for example. If the housing statement of €60,000 per house is correct, this means that 150 to 450 billion must be invested in the housing stock. We have a mortgage debt of 800 billion in the Netherlands. Is this how we want that mortgage debt to increase? Mr Wiebes is now making a commitment on the issue of assets. Does he also want to think through the impact on our taxation if we miss 8 billion in fuel tax? Our tax system is also meant to provoke good behavior and to promote less desirable behavior. Then, to my liking, there must also be a long-term review of our tax system. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u84	I would like to extend my commitment to Mr Moorlag to taxation, because that too is an important point. But my commitment is not to study all that now, but to study whether I'm going to study it, and I'll let him know. I don't think it's a silly request, but I'm not gonna stand here freestyling. I'm also gonna see what the material there is, I'm gonna think about how big the effects could be. It is also a trade-off between the amount of human hours we put in it and the gigantic task that there is. There are few people in the department who can still go home at an appropriate time and the weekends are no longer sacred. So I'm gonna make that assessment, but I'm gonna honor the question in the sense that I'm gonna get on with it. But I'll let you know how deep and how I'm going to go about it. Unfortunately, he has to make that commitment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u85	I appreciate that. I would like to make another suggestion to the Minister: to answer the questions of how the energy transition can be best shaped, the Minister has set up five consultation tables. He could, of course, consider creating another side table in which these capital and tax effects, including long-term income effects, are considered. I'd like to give him that as a suggestion. I am not going to provoke him to answer this question, but I would like to see a letter from the Minister in which he answers that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u86	What we're not gonna do is ask the polder for the expected power effects. We don't. I mean, the truth isn't found through negotiation, it's through study. That's noisy work, under fluorescent lamps in a small room with the door closed. That is the way it should go, and we do not need polder consultation. So if Mr Moorlag wants to find out the truth, then I shouldn't necessarily just put it on those tables, but then I should get on with it, including the income effects. I'm not worried about putting that on those tables. For the income effects, I look at people like Mr Moorlag, who is in the Chamber. It is this House of Representatives that deals with that. Those aren't those tables. Let us keep this separate for a moment, because before you know it, Mr Moorlag's work will be done at the tables. That, I think, is democratically incorrect. It is not that I would simply prefer Mr Moorlag's views to those of the participants at the table, but this right belongs to Mr Moorlag and not to those tables. Now he's looking at me and he's thinking, "What's going on here?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr. Moorlag, I think it's obvious, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u88	I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u89	You'll get a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u90	Just a little comment. I do not blame Mr Moorlag in any way, but I think that people in the country could be scared. As for the important power shifts at the home: I have to nuance that here. If in the next 30 years we are going to have to invest 10% of the housing value for each house, because so much time we have, well up to 2050, that is 0.33% per year. The maintenance bill could be higher by now. What is normally put into their homes by Dutch people is already more than that amount. We put money in houses all day long. We have huge infrastructure around homes, but no one notices. Mr Moorlag pays invisiblely through fixed fee payments for the sewers, for the cable, for the water supply, for the gas pipeline. We are a country with a huge infrastructure worth possibly many dozens of percent of the value of all those homes. We've all smashed that down invisiblely. I'd still like to have a little anthology about that smashing. The Task Group Funding is in favour of finding methods to flatten that, as we in the Netherlands have a good tradition of making general provisions, things that people cannot cough up at once, financially possible through some form of a fixed-right thing. We've never come to the door with Dutch people to say: we're here to pay 20 grand for the sewers and the water supply. We do this differently in this country, and we look for methods to do this differently. But that really shouldn't mean that we're introducing very new power effects here. Of course, there is investment in homes over the next 30 years; that has always been the case. Nevertheless, his question remains relevant. A relevant question has been asked by two spokesperson, who is not exactly similar but is similar, I think. Mrs Mulder and Mrs Yeşilgöz have a good technical point: if you look at the costs and costs of the energy transition for households, there is, of course, a certain bias, because so far it has just been taken into account in inflation. I certainly do not guarantee that this could be done in any other way. It may therefore be necessary to take note of this through the calculations made by the various households in the context of the NEV, but I think it is worth thinking about this as well. In the same report as the one on Mr Moorlag's request, let me look at how we could do this. Ms Yeşilgöz suggests the Central Planning Office. I think that's obvious. Let me puzzle on that, because I think it's a very sensible suggestion. If we are serious about taking the purchasing power effects into account, then that toolbox must be well equipped. That is a very real question. Mrs Mulder had asked that question in other words. That is an extremely sensible suggestion. I'm gonna chew on that, too, as it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you for this commitment, because it seems to us to be very relevant. Also relevant is the question when we will get it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u92	How long does it take to chew? I've only just gotten the idea that I'm going to chew now, so I don't know how big the bite I've taken. Mind if I take a look at that in a reasonable manner? Again, I'm asking that pretty seriously. It's not like anyone in the department has nothing to do now. So I'm jigsawing a little bit. Let me do some puzzles. I'll let this room know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u93	I have a suggestion, and I can already hear the echo of it from one of my colleagues. That suggestion is that we should at least have this available for the general discussion, the debate we have in committee on climate just before the summer, so that we at least know the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u94	Let me put it this way: it seems to me that before the summer, I should be able to give an explanation of what we will ultimately have to do in order to complete the figures, both those of Mr Moorlag and those of Mrs Yesilgöz and Mrs Mulder. You want me to do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u95	The Minister is going to do his very best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u96	Yeah, I'm gonna do my best to do that. That's what it is. Mr Jetten asked more generally for an overview of income effects. That is, of course, also embedded in the whole process of the climate agreement, which we have talked about several times here. I just mentioned a few things about that. For him too, therefore, that clarity should be provided. Then something is coming into our debate, which I am not saying I did not expect at all. That is, of course, the gas extraction in Groningen, and specifically the NAM. There are all sorts of reports following a consultation on a law that I think is necessary. Let me try to provide clarity. I'll be clear about what I don't want to be clear about at the same time. I'm negotiating with those oil companies. Let me say this about the NAM. I am now taking a solemn look at the people who are most concerned about this, although I could almost make a tour. The NAM continues to pay for the damage and reinforcement caused by the gas extraction. No one at the table is gonna stand back from that, no one. I understand how in the media that would not be the case. I do not go into the different terminology, the legal backgrounds and the question why all kinds of people in the country with all kinds of different expertises report to the media because they think things are different. I'm telling you now: the NAM continues to pay for the damage and reinforcement caused by the gas extraction, point. How exactly, I'm not gonna talk about that here. There are all kinds of possible ways. I'm working on that. The second is that the stakes are very clear. That bet is that there's no claim for the gas in the ground. That commitment is very clear. I don't want to say anything else. External interventions do not really help me either, unlike what has been suggested here and there. I'm not gonna anticipate anything either. I'm going to answer two more technical questions about this later, but I'm not going to comment. They're constructive conversations, but everything has to be on the rocks. It'll take time. I'm not going into it right now. Nor am I prepared to give any 'judgement chamber' on any motion in this area. I heard you all right. I agree with a lot of what you're saying, but I just have to do my job first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u97	In January Marjan van Loon van Shell was here, who can always make a very good speech. He said we're not gonna pay out any more dividends; the NAM won't pay out any more dividends to Shell and Exxon. That was what many people wanted to hear, because with that they have the assurance that the NAM holds enough money. That was in January. It was already said: put that on paper quickly. They wouldn't do that. Now it appears in April that the NAM paid a record amount of dividend to Shell and Exxon compared to the previous year. That hurts Groningen. They have already lost confidence, and now the weather is being damaged by those beautiful words from January. How do you feel about the NAM paying Shell and Exxon again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u98	That was exactly the technical question I wanted to answer. No, that's not right. At the end of January, Shell declared that it would no longer pay dividends to shareholders for the time being. Afterwards, no dividend was paid. Those dividend payments are from before, when that commitment did not yet apply. All kinds of other measures have been taken to ensure that the company is solid. A further provision of nearly 0.5 billion was made in 2017 and liquidity increased. But the guarantee by the NAM or the oil companies for the remaining possible damage and the reinforcement is also part of the negotiations. That's no secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mrs. Beckerman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u100	After that, you say no dividend has been paid. But it wasn't said by Shell at the time: we gave out a record in dividend last year, as you can see in April. No, it was said very loud and clear: we don't do that anymore. You can imagine how this gets to the Groningen people, can't you? They see a company that has too little equity to meet all obligations for damage and reinforcement, but they still don't see how the NAM will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u101	The fact that this may happen to the Groningen people is mainly because there are people who want to give the impression that the NAM does not keep those agreements, but she does. Following that commitment, the NAM no longer paid a dividend. It is well known that it has paid dividends in the previous 55 years. I don't know if that's exactly 55 years, but it's a habit of the NAM to pay dividends; that's always been the case. They've stopped doing that now, and they've kept to it. So let's not worry the Groninger right now. Let me add, moreover, and I am not saying this for the first time: the NAM will continue to pay for the damage and the reinforcement caused by gas extraction, and its securing is, among other things, part of the negotiations. Period. With regard to some things you should also say: don't let the Groningen listen to the NAM, but to me. I'm saying this right here. This is what it is. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go over the spokesmen's input. I have not yet answered a number of questions about Mr Van Raan's three puzzles, for example. Mr Van Raan is trying to get me to solve tomorrow's problems with today's techniques. In addition, he says: the greater the necessity, the smaller the support. In general, that seems to me to be wronging the polder. The Netherlands is a country where in the end, sometimes with some delay, Mr Van Raan is always willing to speed up that process and that role he has also taken. And how can fun and affordable go together? Well, I hope that when I sit next to Mr Van Raan in 2049 in the retirement home, I still see a world that is affordable and fun. How exactly is that going to work? We have the climate agreement for that, among other things. But even after that, the thinking doesn't stop. I have discussed Mr Moorlag's suggestions in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u102	Before you continue, Mr Van Raan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u103	Of course, we are happy to help the Minister speed things up. But we don't do that alone. Mr Nijpels would also like to help speed up the Minister's efforts. He said: you don't have to be a psychic to see that the goal will be tightened up at the next summit. It is then about the climate objectives. Question one: does the Minister share this view? But how do you deal with the flexibilisation in such a climate agreement? That really is a puzzle I'd like to present to the Minister. You don't want to break open a climate agreement every time, every two years, because there's another acceleration. So how's the minister gonna shape that? How does he keep it flexible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's a lot of detail, almost a lot of documentation. I have a letter in which I have written that the tables reflect on 49% but also map what happens when it is 55%. The whole section of how we try to convince other countries to embrace 55% has also been outlined. Furthermore, we have a system. A Climate Act is being worked on in a variety of ways, and that is not a secret instrument in which that mechanism is secured once again. I refer to the reporting techniques and the adaptation techniques and the involvement of the Chamber. We could fill it up for an hour. I think Mr Van Raan has something he can read about for hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u105	I do not express myself well, I see, because otherwise the Minister would have given a different answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u106	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u107	It is true that all these procedural matters have been described. But not described is the interim adjustment because the world changes faster than we assume. How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u108	That is part of exactly the same instruments. Let me do it one more abstraction level. Mr Van Raan is actually asking how we deal with progressing insights. He's actually asking if we as a society can stand the progress. I think that's us. We can micromanage entirely administratively who should say how, when, what, to whom or to what if another number comes out, but that speaks freely for itself, I would say. Mr Van Raan does not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u109	We're doing two-way interruptions, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u110	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but he's making some sort of caricature right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u111	Just one brief comment, and then the Minister can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u112	It's about the change that we all foresee. How do we give it a place? And that combined with the question of how to maintain support when that change is going so fast that the measures need to be more drastic. So there's some kind of dynamic in there, some kind of triangle ratio, which is a huge puzzle. And that hasn't been lifted. I would like the Minister to take that more seriously and not make it a caricature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u113	It is not my intention to make a caricature of something, but my intention to leave that which is already clear, clear and that which is unanswerable, unrequited. Mr Van Raan is actually asking us how we are going to support something that is still unknown at some point, which we do not yet know when, changes in insights. Well, the answer is I don't know, but we've always come out of that as a society. Things change in one piece. That's what this room is for. We are not going to do that in a 30-member debate, but that is what this Parliament exists of. That exists of change. It is Mr Van Raan's job, I think, to make changes. That's what he's for. Then Mrs. Van Tongeren. She says: that's weird; now we're getting off the gas and elsewhere we're looking for gas. What she is asking is: when will the small field letter come? It's coming, I think, right after the Mayreces. Then there is Mr Jetten's LED lighting. First, he says that it is wise for Dutch households to switch to LED lighting. No one disagrees with that. I think that is also about the easiest part of the energy transition: the standardised fitting. You turn one lamp out and the other one in. That one lamp breaks down one time and then the next one comes in. That is what you would like to speed up; we all agree with each other. He asked whether there could be a form of microfinance for this. Look, a lamp like that costs €5. That's not microfinance, that's nanofinance! I honestly think we should do this differently. I think that perhaps we should ask the table-built environment how we can proceed to LED lighting at an accelerated rate in a pleasant way. Because arranging funding for a lamp of €5 almost resembles saving coffee points and choosing something for that in the catalogue. No. I share Mr Jetten's intention. He actually says: let's do the easiest part of the energy transition quickly. Well, that's obvious, too. It's low-hanging fruit. No one's against this. I will bring this message, this wish, which I assume is everyone's wish without further discussion, to the attention of someone who may have thought of this himself: Diederik Samsom of the table built environment. I think he's thought about it, but I'll still make sure that this message gets to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u114	I think that's a very nice commitment. That's a good table to think about how to cut costs. However, I would like to make one more comment before we start making too much fun of the costs that some households have to incur in order to switch over. Yes, one light is €5, but if you have to replace all the lamps in your house, you will be 50 euros further while saving €80 in lighting costs. It is also wider than LED lighting only. Households with a lower income simply choose the most economical device, for example, when they have to replace a household appliance. Think about refrigerators, televisions and stuff like that. You see in the country municipalities that choose to occasionally help households from social policy to switch to LED lighting or energy-efficient equipment, but once such schemes stop at municipal level, the pace of transition also stops. Of course, they are small amounts, but for households that really have nothing to spend besides their regular expenses, even an investment in an energy-efficient refrigerator or a transition to LED lighting is a very big investment. I am therefore pleased that the Minister is prepared to ask the climate table built environment to take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u115	That's what I'm gonna do. I come to another important point from Mr Jetten. He points out possible perverse effects of the minimum CO price. The effect he describes could indeed occur; that is correct. That really needs to be looked at. Because it's not like we have the plan to get rid of that minimum CO2 price. But it is true that we intend to step away from that perverse effect. He'll understand. At the moment there is a really thorough study to see what is going on and how you could match that. The department does that and the industry participates in it. Because we do not want to put security of supply at risk or, for example, to keep coal plants in operation longer, because they have suddenly become the back-up. So this is a very good point. We're gonna get more clarity about that, too. That must then be taken on the table of electricity. That table knows that and is involved. He's also waiting to see what the results are. This is a very good point. Let's see. I think I've had it all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u116	I'm looking at the members. Is that the case? Then we move on to the second term of office. I am looking at Mr Van Raan. Do you have a question? Can you come to the interrupting microphone or to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u117	Would you like to suspend for two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u118	I'll suspend for two minutes and then we'll continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr Van Raan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cost efficiency and support have been identified as guiding principles in the choices for action;]] [[calls on the government to take the "polluter pays" principle as a full starting point in the further development of climate policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new insights may lead to tightening and/or adjustment of targets, policy adjustment or acceleration of measures;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for an agreement to be completely opened;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a certain degree of flexibility remains possible within the climate agreement in the event that adjustments prove necessary to achieve the climate targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this cabinet is faced with the task of reaching a climate agreement aimed at a very strong reduction of CO emissions;]] [[noting that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs stated in that context that "all parties need each other to make the great task we face together a success";]] [[Notes that during the trade mission to China (among other things) agreements were made by the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality which precisely lead to a reduction in CO emissions;]] [[points out that it is undesirable to undertake new activities that will lead to (strong) increases in CO emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan, Beckerman, Sazias, Van Tongeren and Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-75]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-176]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-177]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State is negotiating with Shell and Exxon on the termination of gas extraction;]] [[noting that the NAM is trying to avoid responsibility for damage in Groningen;]] [[considers that the NAM should not evade its responsibility and should not pass the costs on to households;]] [[calls on the Government not to compensate NAM, Shell and Exxon in any way for the reduction of gas extraction and to assume the responsibility of the NAM in the new Mining and Gas Act and to respect its responsibility for damages and reinforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that current climate policy has an uneven distribution of lusts and burdens;]] [[Whereas the climate plans in the government agreement further increase this inequality;]] [[believes that new climate policies should address this inequality;]] [[calls on the Government to make the sharing of climate policy costs an integral part of the further negotiations within the Climate Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-178]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-179]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u122	15 seconds left. Then I can thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you. I call Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u124	One motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition has a major impact on, inter alia, household, corporate and public finances' wallets;]] [[considers that the cost of the energy transition should be balanced in order to maintain the necessary social support;]] [[calls on the Government, under the Energy Agreement, to make the financial impact on households, businesses and public authorities transparent and to inform the Court of its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. To explain this motion, the following. I am not concerned with nano- and micro-finance and purchasing power effects per year. That's what the purchasing power cards are for. I am concerned about the mega- and beta-financing of the entire energy transition, which has an incredible impact on income and wealth, but also on public finances. I welcome the Minister's commitments, but it does extend a little further, for example to taxation. I agree with the Minister that we should not leave that at the tables, but I think we should study the mechanisms under the waterline very carefully and make them clear to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NAM indicated its intention to bear less responsibility for the earthquake damage during the phasing-out of gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[noting that Shell and ExxonMobil indicated that they wanted special financial arrangements due to the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[comments from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to continue to support the current allocation of responsibility of NAM and shareholders Shell and ExxonMobil for compensating for the mining damage and preventing new mining damage in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3281-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u128	In accordance with the Minister's wishes, he doesn't have to say anything about it at all, because this is a "spoken" motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you. Mrs Mulder has a question for Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u130	For me, the Minister's commitment is perfectly clear. But let's say he can do even better than the current distribution. I hope Mrs Van Tongeren does not want to rule that out in the negotiations. However, that is not in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u131	I'm not asking. I've heard in the media that those responsible, Shell and the NAM, want it different, and so do they. The NAM's lobby document is on my table. I'm sure you have it, too. That is the commitment of these companies. I would like to support the Minister with as many members of the House of Representatives as possible and say that it must at least be about the current responsibilities. In interrupting debates I tried to ask D66 and VVD and understand that it is actually their intention. I have tried to include this in this motion. This motion does not oppose a much better deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. Mr Kops has waived the floor. Then Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. Chairman. As 50PLUS, we often experience that older people are framed as rich because averages are used. And yes, there are wealthy elderly people, but most of the elderly only have AOW and a small pension. I experience the fact that the Minister says that the strongest shoulders of the elderly are therefore like a stab under water. Older people with only AOW and a small supplementary pension often live in an old house, which they bought a long time ago and which is counted as own property among the assets they have saved. Moving is difficult, because the costs are high. I want to make it concrete for them. What's the minister gonna say to these people? We're not filing any motions. Well, we did draw some with it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you. Then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister for the answer and for the commitment that the climate table built environment is also being asked how households can pick low-hanging fruit with LED lighting and thus reduce their energy costs quickly. Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the commitment that the energy table will look closely at how the CO price will affect which power stations will close first. We must avoid remaining with the most polluting power stations to absorb our peak load. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am very pleased with the clear answers given by the Minister to all the questions concerning the handling of damages and the reinforcement in Groningen. That answer is: the NAM continues to pay for the damage and reinforcement required as a result of gas extraction. I think that is the only possible conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you. Then Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr President, thank you. I will be very brief, because I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment that he will look more closely at purchasing power figures and that we will hear before the summer whether it is possible or not. Then after the summer, when all the plans of the climate tables are there, we can judge them well. I am very pleased that this debate has resulted in this. I found the Minister perfectly clear about his commitment to Groningen. For the CDA, too, it is quite clear that we want to avoid any additional tax revenue towards large mining companies, which really do not need it. In fact, they should be committed to good reinforcement and good damage handling in Groningen. Every euro that goes extra to them is one too many for us. I do not think I need to speak on this in any further motions or anything else. This is how the CDA's in it. Let me be absolutely clear about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions from me either. They were very clear statements from the Minister, especially when it comes to the commitment for Groningen. The Chamber has also made a clear statement on this matter. And I, too, am extremely pleased with the commitment to consider how we can make the interests of Dutch households take into account those climate tables. I really hope that we can actually get a pass-through, for example from the Central Planning Bureau or any other agency, so that we really know what is going on in those households and what they can carry. In this way, we can have a very concrete debate on this. So, yeah, I'm very happy, too. I actually want to finish with a cheerful note too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you. I am looking at the Minister and I see that he can give an immediate opinion to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u141	Mr. Chairman. One question has been asked by Mrs Sazias. No, I don't deal specifically with households. There are all kinds of people with lower incomes and they will also have to be able to experience the energy transition. I have discussed in detail all the possibilities for financing arrangements, for example. Many low-income people also live in a corporate home, and they may well get their turn sooner rather than later. I do not deal with unknown households and very specific cases, but it is clear that everyone must be able to experience this. There is no alternative and that is all part of it. Mr Van Raan asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 175 the 'polluter pays' principle must be taken into account in the distribution of needs and burdens. I have made quite an argument about the fact that it is the starting point for the polluter to pay and for us to make concessions. I can say 'I have already carried out the motion', but since I am sure that Mr Van Raan and I do not mean the same with this text, I must also be honest with him. I have to discourage the motion, because it would be faint to say I'm already doing it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zou hij ook niet ...]] Of course, it is the starting point to do so, but I have just explained that that is not always possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u142	The first motion gets...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u143	...disadvised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u144	... dissuaded in judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u145	The second motion in part No. 176 calls on the Government to ensure that a certain degree of flexibility remains possible. That's what I said. We are such a society; nothing is in concrete. Even the Climate Act provides that you could change that from time to time. This should not happen every year or every month, and therefore a rhythm has been agreed that fits in with the Paris rhythm. I therefore see no other way but to leave this motion by Mr Van Raan to the Chamber. I just argued that it's exactly what should be and what could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr Van Raan's motion for a resolution 176 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes, judge Room. The third motion in part No. 177 states that it is undesirable to undertake new activities that will lead to a sharp increase in CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u148	You do not have to judge this, because it is not a call to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u149	Oh, yeah, speaks out that...! Well, fine. I'm afraid I won't be able to get a haircut when this wish comes true. Then there is the fourth motion in part No. 178 which the government does not request in any way, et cetera. I have said that I will discourage all motions relating to the negotiations, and I will do so with this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u150	The motion in part No. 178 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u151	Yes. The fifth motion in part No. 179 calls on the government to make the sharing of climate policy costs an integral part of the negotiations within the Climate Council. Of course, we're not going to do that. That really belongs here in this room! It starts in the Trêves room and then it comes here. We are not going to leave this to the negotiators of the climate council. Mrs Beckerman is actually calling for oil companies, among other things, to decide on the distribution of income in the Netherlands, and we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u152	The motion in part No. 179 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u153	Dissuade. Then there is the sixth motion in part No. 180 by Mr Moorlag. The terminology of this motion is quite general. I can say we already do. It's almost the same as Mr. Van Raan's. But here Mr Moorlag has it, I suspect, specifically about the wishes he has just expressed with regard to the financial consequences. Since I am thinking about this, I would like to suggest to him that he should hold it and put the motion to the vote after the letter on how I think about it, including how I see the VVD/CDA request. Then we can do more with that. At least I assume that's what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Moorlag, are you prepared to hold your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u155	At what time can we expect that letter from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u156	Yes, that's what Mrs. Mulder asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u157	The AO is June 28th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u158	I'm just thinking about that. I told you that letter will come before the summer at least. I'm trying before, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u159	The Minister has indicated that he is willing to try to have the letter in the Chamber for the AA, which you have on 28 June. So that's an effort he's going to make for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u160	The climate agreement in the motion says 'energy agreement', but I assume that Mr Moorlag is referring to the climate agreement, which is not there for the summer either. So that's early enough, so I'd like to give him some thought. But that's up to him. I said what I said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr President, I am trying to think about the Minister's suggestion before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u162	There you go. On the motion in part No. 181 I am not asked to be judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u163	But may I ask you about the motion in part No. 180? If Mr Moorlag decides not to hold on to them, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u164	I can only give him an incentive to hold the motion by dissuading her in that case. Let me put it this way: with the purchasing power plates we already do this. But I have to go into what Mr Moorlag really means, and he means more than the purchasing power plates. Now, before I think about it, if I'm forced to make a judgment, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. But precisely because I promised Mr Moorlag to think about it, I think he also thinks it reasonable that we put this motion to the vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u165	Clear. And the motion in part No. 181 by Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u166	I have no judgment on that, because I am not asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u167	Oh, yeah, that's right. I'm looking at the members. Any questions? I don't believe it. Then I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-7.u168	I'm suspending until 6:15. The votes on the motions for resolutions tabled in this debate will be taken next Tuesday.
