ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mrs Voortman's question on behalf of GroenLinks about the report that employers would be at a lower wage for disabled people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Of some of the proposals of this cabinet, you wonder why they are actually being proposed, because no one is actually in favour of them. Think, for example, of abolishing the dividend tax or increasing VAT. Such a proposal is also the pay dispensation, a proposal that keeps people with disabilities dependent on assistance for the rest of their lives, does not build up a pension and no longer has an equivalent position in the workplace. The argument of this cabinet is that this is a way of making it more attractive for employers to employ people with disabilities. But what does it turn out to be time and time again? Employers also think this is a bad idea. Now, a Cedris survey shows that about 80% of the people currently employed with labour costs subsidies are satisfied with how this is done. More than 70% call the cabinet's plans undesirable. They have very good arguments for that. It just changed. Companies are just getting used to the system. And why does the cabinet lay down the administrative burden on the employees themselves? I therefore have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How does she feel that more than 70% of employers consider the plans undesirable? Is there sufficient support for this measure? And who does the cabinet stand for? For those who want to work, or for companies who want to get rid of it easily and now employ little or no people with disabilities? Wouldn't it make much more sense to listen carefully to the employers who already do? Employers indicate that they are afraid that people are losing their motivation to work. They also indicate that they, too, are partly losing their motivation, because the labour cost subsidy is a way of helping people out of benefits to work. They also indicate that this can lead to new problems, because their salary administration is not set up and they are able to calculate the hours in the current system properly afterwards. So why is this proposal now? If 80% of employers are satisfied with the way things are going, would it not be much smarter to share these good experiences more widely and improve this system rather than introducing a new system that employers fear will lead to more red tape for them and their employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mrs Voortman for the questions. I speak to many employers who employ people with wage costs subsidies, including the concerns they have. In any case, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that these employers have recruited people from a distance from the labour market. I also speak to a lot of people who are now working on an arrangement. That is why I recognise the concerns that Mrs Voortman has voiced. I can indeed say that you have done well if you are currently working with wage costs subsidies and if you have an employer who is helping you with wage costs subsidies. There is a very big "but" in this file. It says that more than half of the people with disabilities are not at work. Because the instrument wage costs subsidy is a very nice instrument in itself if you can work three and a half days a week or more, but if you can work less, it doesn't pay to work for you. I was at work in Utrecht the other day. That's where I spoke to a lady with soft tissue rheumatism. That means she can only work four hours a day. In doing so, it has no option of remaining more than when it is on the benefit. That is why I think it is very important that we start working on a scheme which will indeed make it easier for employers to offer vacancies. For example, employers are already working in the Wajong with pay dispensation. So we make it more clear to employers. But we also make it possible for people to keep more than their benefit from the first hour they go to work. I find that incredibly important. The process I have chosen for this is that I first come to the Chamber with a general letter and only then with a law. I know that there is a lot of discussion about it and I have also read the article in the newspaper, but when that letter comes, I hope to send it this month, I hope that we can all, with all those parties here in the Chamber but also outside, also look at the objectives of what we are doing. How can we take care of employers? How can we make work pay for people from the first hour and ensure that all people with disabilities have the opportunity to get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Secretary of State gives two arguments as to why labour costs subsidies should be exchanged for wage dispensation. The first is: work must pay. The question is whether pay dispensation is the only way forward. Also for people who can only work a small number of hours, you could solve that in other ways without interfering with the current system, for example by looking at the additional income requirements. Surely it would be much better to look at that instead of creating a whole new system? The other argument that she gives is that employers need to be helped to make things less difficult, but the employers whose secretary of state says they have a lot of contact with them indicate that it is now well arranged. Wouldn't it make much more sense to listen to them and ask them what should be better instead of introducing a whole new system that would lead to more red tape for employees, who would then get income from several pots of money, but also for those employers, who would have to do their payroll administration in a completely different way? Does the Secretary of State guarantee that the transition from wage subsidies to pay dispensation will not create new burdens for employers and employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it's the most important thing to do this. I want people like the lady I met to be able to participate in that work visit. That is why I started working to arrange for pay dispensation in such a way that we can also achieve it. That is the choice made in the cabinet, also because employers have said they want to work in a clear way. Then I can go back to that lady and tell her that there is that possibility for her too, because employers are going to open up vacancies. That's important. This is not entirely new, by the way. The system of pay dispensation is already functioning in the Wajong. At the moment, about 17,000 employers work with this. Although I very much appreciate the employers who already work with labour costs subsidies, this represents a very small proportion of the total number of employers. So we say: make things clear to employers at the moment, so that they can be opened up and all people have a chance to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	I am very sorry that the Secretary of State does not answer my questions. I would point out that, precisely within the labour cost subsidy, there are opportunities to get people with fewer hours to work. If you trade in the wage wage subsidy for the pay dispensation, you make sure that people are dependent on welfare for the rest of their lives. Wage dispensation therefore reduces people's ability to participate. I'd like a reaction to that. The second point is precisely this new burden on employers. Does the Secretary of State guarantee that trading in one system for another will not create new burdens for employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	What we want to do is that people from the first hour they work, they notice it in their wallet, and they notice it when they start to work more, because they're gonna have more left. That is the most important of this arrangement for the people who work, but behind it is the story I started with, namely that at the moment more than half of the people with disabilities are not working and are therefore dependent on a regulation. All the pluses and all the minuses added up I am well aware that there are certainly also loves in the system that we are about to introduce now. As far as I am concerned, there is a plus for the objectives I am aiming for with this proposal. We are, of course, also trying, in conversation with all the partners involved, to deal with all kinds of issues, such as the cost of red tape or administration. I think that this will also be a very important subject in the debate I will have with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you for the questions, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	The employees were already against it, the municipalities were against it and since today the employers are against it. In other words, the basis of support for this plan has completely disappeared. That is not surprising either, because it is in fact a very cowardly cut on the disabled. A cut of no less than 500 million, giving you whole and half employees. Wage discrimination is what it's called. Does the Secretary of State intend to go into history or bury this plan in a very deep pit and spend her time more meaningfully?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	With all due respect to the research that has been done, it is a survey among employers who work with wage costs subsidies. It's kind of like I'd ask SP'ers if they liked the payment scheme. I will then get a different result than if I asked all politicians if they were okay with the payment scheme. So it's a little wiggling and weighing with its outcome. As far as I am concerned, the acceptance of this by employers is very prominent. They have indicated that they would like to open vacancies and help people to work. However, they also indicate that it is now incredibly difficult for them and ask the government to make it easier. I'm working on it. As far as I am concerned, this will enable people to have a starting position in the labour market, which will enable them to participate. One of the other people I met on that job visit was a guy everyone thought five years ago he could never work again and who now works there five days a week. That's what I'm thinking. I think that the instrument we are about to introduce will contribute better to this objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	First, a point of order. I think the Secretary of State was referring to the SP's payment scheme, but it has nothing to do with this. I think it is really silly to do that, because this is about great concern for a lot of people with disabilities who want and can participate fully. They must therefore also receive a full wage. A lot of empty words from this Secretary of State, from this cabinet, to hide the fact that 500 million is being cut on people with disabilities, while the Netherlands is doing very well. There's no need. The big question to this Secretary of State and the Cabinet is: why cut 500 million? Who is this cabinet doing it for anyway? Not for employers, not for municipalities and not for regional workers. Who is the Secretary of State actually doing this for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u13	I used a metaphor to describe the research system. I tried it that way, and I didn't want to judge it for the rest. This is precisely the objective. We want to give people a good starting position on the labour market. I would also like to say that the money provided by this measure is being used to create the possibility of sheltered work and to improve the services of the municipalities, precisely for this group. There's not a euro going away. In fact, we can help more people with the resources available for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u14	There's 500 million going away from another group. That means these people are very badly hurt. I am very disappointed in the Secretary of State when she dismisses the investigation as sermons for her own parish. These are experience experts. These are employers who have experience with it. They appeal to you by saying: stop now and let us continue in this way, because it dwindles the people who are concerned very much. Then why is the Secretary of State so stubborn to say: there is only one way and that is our way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u15	I very much appreciate the subject, in the sense that it also reveals what concerns and considerations are. I think it is important to include them in the development of the measure as we now advocate. Moreover, these partners are also at the table, because we asked them to speak with us. If we cannot agree on the measure we are taking, hopefully we can agree on the purpose and the way in which we can invest care in a different way. For the cabinet, for me, it is important that I want the majority of people with disabilities who are not currently working to be given the opportunity to participate. Work is more than just money. Work is also colleagues, contacts, coming home with a story, unfolding and development. That is what I intend to do with the proposal, which I would like to come to the Chamber shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you.
