ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would, of course, like to welcome the two initiators. They are supported in section K in the defense of the bill by Mrs Koster, CDA member of the CDA group, and Mr Leertuwer, member of the SGP group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, Mr Slob. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this law. The first side of the Chamber's term took place on 5 April last. Today we will continue with the first-term response followed by the entire second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	I would now like to give the floor to the two initiators. First of all, Mr Bishop will speak. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Politics is a dynamic business. In the spring almost a year ago, we discussed the first deadline for this initiative proposal. That was still under the direction of the then outgoing cabinet. In the meantime, a remark has been included from the government agreement of the current cabinet. We very much appreciate that the cabinet has left room, and perhaps even seen an added value in it, to continue the discussion of this initiative proposal rather than expect us to come up with a stand-alone proposal. I think this is the shortest way to reach a decision in this one. Mr. Chairman. Small but fine, you could call this bill a compact summary. Several Members have already pointed out that it is not a big proposal. That's right. It concerns a single provision which is deleted from a law. The bill nevertheless has much to offer education. It provides certainty that new tests will not be required via the political back door. However, Mr Dijkgraaf pointed out that the Chamber succeeded in making the bill much bigger than it actually is. Two questions were raised in the debate. There has been extensive discussion of the importance of a diagnostic test for pupils as such. In addition, although a little bit more succinct, we discussed how a diagnostic test could possibly be introduced. Strictly speaking, this bill is only about the last question. The bill aims to ensure that there is a careful procedure when the government would like to require a diagnostic test. In this answer, of course, we would like to address both questions, because they are very closely linked. Moreover, it is always a pleasure to talk about promoting the quality of education and about contributing to the improvement of education. This is an ongoing process. Mr Rog will discuss what this bill on the diagnostic test for students means. First of all, I should like to comment on the decision-making process on the diagnostic test. How will the introduction of the diagnostic test be decided? At the heart of this legislative proposal is that a new test in education should be compulsory in accordance with the current procedure for a legislative proposal and a legal procedure. The cabinet is not supposed to be able to decide on its own. Mr Van Meenen gave a pointy voice to this by saying that we rulers should not give these kinds of instruments in their hands. Because there is also legal certainty here for schools. This type of decision involves a careful process of consultation, input from advisory bodies and informed decision-making by government and parliament. In any case, we also meet the need for Mr Kwint to be able to vote on these proposals himself. Mr Van der Molen rightly stressed that schools deserve the freedom to organise education themselves. We have to deal with this freedom carefully. I note that the debate showed some difference in assessing the character of the diagnostic test. The initiators stress that there is a difference between requiring a specific national standard test on the one hand and a general obligation to measure intermediate learning outcomes on the other. With Mrs Becker, the initiators recognise that a mandatory interim measurement as such is less direct about how and more about what. After all, when the legislator prescribes the measurement moment, schools retain the freedom to decide for themselves how to shape the measurement. However, Mr Beertema made it clear that the diagnostic test is nothing more or less than a didactic tool. And in itself, of course, that is also a fact. Then it's more about how. The initiators share the conclusion that, however, it is at issue when the legislator prescribes a specific interim test. The diagnostic tests that have been under discussion in recent years not only ensure that the learning results are measured, but also prescribe the measuring instrument itself. The initiators point out that even in the final test the freedom of schools has been respected by offering the possibility to opt for an alternative test. That would be the least we can expect from the government on a diagnostic test. Before we get to that point, however, we should first answer the fundamental question raised by Mrs Westerveld: how many snapshots do we want to impose on the public? A very fair question. In addition to the examinations, which have been completed and are nationally standardized and prescribed, the initiators do not consider it desirable to require central intermediate measurements. Such tests do not do enough justice to the situation of the school and to the student who is still fully involved in his mental, emotional and cognitive development. As far as we are concerned, therefore, an obligation to record a number of test times is superfluous and does not necessarily guarantee the quality of education. The law already obliges schools to follow the development of pupils and to ensure that education is linked to them. Mrs Becker indicated that in practice several useful forms of interim measurement are now available. In addition to the diagnostic test, for example, a apprenticeship tracking system was also mentioned. And that too is in full use in educational practice. According to the initiators, this observation underlines that the law should not unilaterally provide a basis for requiring diagnostic tests. It is important, in order to be able to follow the learning developments of pupils, to carefully weigh the alternatives first. A legislative proposal may then be made on which Parliament may have to give its opinion. In this way we also discussed and dealt with the final test, as well as the apprenticeship tracking system. This would also allow for the introduction of the diagnostic mid-term test if required. It is good to point out once again that the diagnostic mid-term test proposed in this legislative proposal is different from the test that has been under discussion in recent years. The views on the content of the diagnostic test are now also changing. I refer, for example, to the English section that has been added. These changes show that we need to hold the debate over and over again, possibly on the basis of such a legislative proposal. It is obvious that the obsolete legal basis should now be deleted. For example, Mr Beertema was right to point out that a mandatory test will not be necessary in all schools. He seems to suggest that the test should not be compulsory for all schools. That is, of course, an interesting thought in itself. I think he has a point there, too. Only, as initiators, we can apply this intention differently; schools can deal with it differently..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That therefore calls for a new debate on our part. Mr Beertema also indicated that a diagnostic test is of course not a nice instrument, but that these kind of annoying interventions are sometimes needed to keep people in the loop. He literally said, "I only stick patches where necessary." As far as we are concerned, these qualifications also speak volumes of the diagnostic test. On the basis of these qualifications, the initiators would like to stress that Parliament must take full and deliberate responsibility for this. Finally, Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether the Chamber could expect more of these kinds of proposals. The initiators would very much welcome that. If education is unnecessarily plagued by rules or unnecessarily stressed by the idea that new obligations can be imposed, it is certainly up to the legislator to take action. So we are happy to continue our search for ways in which we can take further care of education by removing unnecessary obligations as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. That's my cut. I would like to ask you to give the floor to the fellow initiativer for the rest of the contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will briefly comment on the elements that link with the meaning of this bill for the students. Mrs Becker and Mrs Van den Hul stressed that the development of the student should be paramount in making choices. There should be no barriers to equal opportunities for children, the speakers said. The initiators wholeheartedly endorse this principle. It was even an excellent starting point for the initiators to come up with this bill. We see compulsory diagnostic tests as a risk to the development and opportunities of pupils. For example, Mr Van Meenen mentioned that schools could start selecting pupils on improper grounds and that pupils could remain sitting unnecessarily. And if we are realistic about the practice, we need to take serious account of the risks that can arise. The content of the keys also gives cause to be critical. Mrs van den Hul, for example, has asked what we are testing and whether everything that is important for the student is testable. That's a relevant question. When we look at the final test, we see that attention is paid to a limited number of skills, which do not give a balanced picture of the total development of the student. This narrow focus would be continued with a diagnostic intermediate test in the substructure. The initiators do not consider this to be a desirable development. There is a real risk that students who perform better on other skills will be further disadvantaged when more of these tests become mandatory. The chance of hidden talents of students being discovered, exposed, will then decrease. If we want to support the learning process of students, we will really have to have it from the teacher in the classroom. Mrs Westerveld pointed out that in the past she was regularly given the impression that the government thought it best to determine exactly what should happen in the classroom. Mr Van der Molen was also convinced that education is perfectly capable of determining how the development of pupils can be monitored in the interim. The initiators join these speakers. If we can no longer trust the teacher, measures taken by Parliament will no longer help. Mr Beertema acknowledged that the lack of a feedback culture was not resolved by requiring diagnostic tests. But he was hoping to teach schools with that. Mrs Becker seemed to assume that mandatory diagnostic tests are necessary to achieve improvement. The initiators do not share that expectation. The risk is that the disease is getting worse. Teachers will then focus more on the external keys. The personal responsibility of the teacher and the involvement in the learning process of pupils, in which they are currently in their development, then decreases. Should it have been a solution for the teacher Beertema at his school at the time, it still remains to be seen that many of his colleagues could have been an annoying breach of their professional space. Each teacher can take responsibility for taking a diagnostic test in the interim, at any time he or she thinks it makes sense. That's exactly what formational keys are meant for. Mr Kwint rightly called for modesty, because we are not the experience experts here in The Hague who know exactly which test is best or most needed at what time. If certain administrators, school leaders or teachers fail, we should not punish all schools for that. The freedom of schools is, of course, not unlimited. Mrs Becker asked what we should do at a weak or very weak school. Do we have to make a test mandatory, or even then does the ultimate freedom of the school go beyond the importance of good learning outcomes? According to the initiators, there can be no ultimate freedom. When schools are very weak, they are subject to inspection supervision. The proposers certainly do not want to change that. The inspection will have to identify where the problems are and what specific improvements are needed. It may be that a school doesn't test enough. But it may also be that a school takes the tests neatly, but looks too little at the results and does not work with them. The problem might even be that a school puts so much time into testing and reporting that other interests, things that are in the best interests of the children, are getting caught up. Standard solutions are not working. It could even be counterproductive if very weak schools are automatically obliged to take diagnostic tests. It may be that the learning outcomes are inadequate due to another cause and that energy should mainly be put into it, but that this does not happen if there is only a focus on additional tests. Schools therefore also deserve tailor-made work. Mrs Becker asked how we could improve education during the school career of students. In her view, schools should measure in good time what the result of the student's education is. The initiators agree that as much as possible should be avoided that problems do not come to light until the end of the school career, during the exam. In this respect, we refer to the periodic inspections, which are primarily intended to prevent this from happening. These studies examine, for example, whether the school is sufficiently monitoring the quality of education. It may then come to light that the school has insufficient insight into the development of pupils. If that is the problem, then the diagnostic test as such will not solve anything either, because if the culture in the school is missing, the diagnostic test will not work as it is intended. Mr Beertema has rightly raised a number of critical questions. The initiators consider it important to promote a culture in which teachers are not dependent on external tests and teaching methods, but in which they themselves have the right insight into the development of pupils and can provide appropriate support. Mrs Becker pointed out that only 22% of teachers would use test results to improve education. The initiators would like to comment on this. We would like to adjust that image, because this percentage is only part of the story. The percentage of 22% is about the teachers who use test results to determine what a student needs. But in addition, about 50% of teachers use the test results to allow students to reflect on their own learning process. That too is very valuable. In addition, around 40% of teachers use the test results to give students substantive feedback. Another 25% use the results to improve their own functioning. Teachers are therefore busy with test results on a large scale in a way that benefits the development of students. The conclusion that cannot be drawn from the figures is that diagnostic tests should be compulsory, according to the initiators. Those who know education well know that there is actually already a lot, especially diagnostically, being tested, week after week, year after year. Perhaps many schools should rather do something to use instead of testing the time taken to better look at and use the results of these tests to improve the learning process of students. Finally, Mr President. Mr Beertema spoke of the delusion of the day, in which tests and examinations would no longer be considered of this time. As far as that thought is concerned, according to the initiators, that is a delusion, because it is certainly not the case that at the moment everything is only aimed at breaking down tests. There's still a lot of testing going on. This is also part of education: both tests and exams, both formational and summative. The question before us now is whether we want more tests and whether we, as a government, can simply impose them on schools through a general measure of governance. We do not think that is desirable. That is what this initiative proposal is for. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Then the minister's gonna have some... Oh, there's one more question, Mr. Rog, so would you stand still?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	I was having second thoughts, because I did not know how common it is to ask a question in this type of legislative initiative. I would like to ask the authors, through the chairman, what is the difference between their legislative proposal and what is in the coalition agreement. Mr Bishop has already gone into it and said that this might be quicker, but I wondered if there was a difference in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	There is no doubt that the Minister will deal with the responsibility he has assumed for the topical and urgent debate. With this bill, the legal basis will lapse. This means that, in addition to the responsibility that the Minister has assumed for what has been started, the adoption of this bill will in future no longer be possible to impose the diagnostic mid-term test on the educational field through a general measure of governance. This would mean that if there were such a need in the Chamber, it would be possible to re-initiate it by means of a coherent legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Special to be here as an advisor to the House of Representatives. I've been able to play a lot of roles here, but this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	You're making a fast career!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	Oh, yeah. I think this is really the highlight. For Members of Parliament, the presentation of an initiative proposal is indeed a highlight. For my part, I would also like to congratulate the initiators, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, and their supporters, Mr Leertouwer and Mrs Koster, for the work they have done. The first deadline of this bill was held in April 2017. At that time, there was another executive on behalf of the previous cabinet as an advisor in the debate. I have, of course, taken note of the introductions that have been made there. It was also very special to see that I believe there were four maiden speeches held by several MPs, in which very personal motivations emerged as to why they became politically active. Some even went way back in their time. I believe that Mr Van der Molen still referred to his childhood, that he entered the Chamber as a child. That's special. I stand here on behalf of the Rutte III cabinet. Of course, we also have the question of how we assess this bill and what advice we give to the Chamber on this bill. Mr Bishop referred directly to the coalition agreement in his first sentences and Mrs Westerveld's question touched on it, so it was the beginning and the end of the change that just happened. In the coalition agreement we agreed that you could also find that the legal basis for the compulsory taking of a diagnostic intermediate test in secondary education will be deleted. This has now been implemented, a legislative proposal from 2013, which I withdrew on behalf of the cabinet in January. You've been informed of that, too. The initiative proposal by both gentlemen here on my right, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, deletes an article from the WVO, introduced in 2010. This clearly removes from the law the basis for any legal obligation to carry out such a test from above. The cabinet sees this initiative proposal and what we are aiming for is in line with what we have said in the government agreement. For this reason, we also leave the judgement on this bill to the Chamber itself. That is, in our view, in line with what was agreed in the coalition agreement. I would add that the provision contained in the law in 2010 was a dormant article. Mr Van Meenen spoke in bad Dutch about a twilight zone or twilight zone. It's in the law, it's never been implemented, but of course there's been a lot of discussion about it. I think Mr Bishop just said that it is a little threatening in the law. I do not know whether that is experienced by everyone in daily teaching practice, but it is true, there is a provision in the law that can be applied and where.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But the fact remains that it has never been applied in all these years. The cabinet has no problem with the article being removed from the law. But I would like to add a few comments. This is an article, never applied, which is deleted. There's not going to be a huge shock all of a sudden across the country of education, and it's not going to look any different tomorrow than today and yesterday. But we must also beware of a false image that may arise. That is why I was also pleased with Mr Rog's contribution, which also stressed the importance of schools monitoring the development and progress of their pupils. Without you possibly having a legal obligation to do so from above, it is important that we simply check it out. You can talk for a very long time about how much that has to be. As far as we are concerned, it is up to the schools themselves, the professionals themselves, to make choices. But we know that there are also subjects where the level is slowly but surely dropping. Also think of the signals we're getting from PISA studies. I do not think that we should give the signal by deleting this article: it is all good and let it all go. No, we say: be alert and follow developments; also take appropriate measures when you see that developments go one way that you would rather not see for yourself. We also know that the proper application of tests is a skill that the professionals in the schools can still use some support. Mr Rog pointed out that too. I would also like to point out the great importance of this from the cabinet side. There is very often "summative" testing; that is what we call it in professional terms. Then it's rounded off with a number. Well, that's kind of an end to learning. This is often recorded in a apprenticeship follow-up system. And then one goes back to the order of the day, to the next subject or chapter, or whatever one is doing. That's not enough. More needs to be done. It is extremely important that keys are also used for what we call "formative evaluation." They are then used as a clear input, sometimes with very clear data, with very clear data, to fill in the further learning process. That is not the most developed part of education, the good ones not too much. The cabinet has consultations with the VO Council, SLO, but also the teacher training courses and a number of universities are involved, in particular the University of Twente. We are in the process of helping schools to better express it and to give it better form and content in practice. We are also doing more research into its effects. As far as we are concerned, that remains a very important point. Keys remain important. We do not want to give the impression that tests are no longer necessary and no longer necessary if this article is deleted, but we leave the choices to the professionals in the schools. We trust them, too. When we look at how it works, we are also honest about the fact that tests are not always used as we would like. It also supports schools. We do this in good consultation with the sector itself. He's happy about that, too. They're working actively on it. In this way, I believe, we will be able to continue to conduct the underlying discussion on the basis of this article and to support schools in putting good tests into practice and making good use of the results of tests. I think I answered some of the questions that were raised in April, particularly by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint. Those questions are about tests, how it was used and what the experiences with them are. Mrs Westerveld made one more comment about applying the test to weak schools. Then it's about the law that's been repealed. It had to do with the sector agreement concluded in 2014 with the Vo, but the practice, including the legal practice, has progressed again. So it's an outdated discussion. You thought it was worrying, but it was agreements that had been made and which my predecessor also implemented at the time. Mr Kwint has asked a question, which is the last question I have yet to answer, about the money that can be saved if we stop with the DTT. I'm just gonna use the abbreviation. You said right away that you do not expect astronomical amounts to be involved. You were close. The answer is: we're not saving anything at all, because it's already stopped. There's no more money spent on it. Too bad, because we could use some money, as we all know. So, unfortunately, there's no money to be raised here. Mr. Chairman. I think it is clear that the cabinet will leave the opinion on this initiative proposal to the Chamber, also following what we agreed in the government agreement. There are some reservations. Keep an eye on developments that occur in a number of subjects. We have to be alert to that, also because we see that the level is slowly but surely falling back. In addition, we must continue to make good use of tests as they are intended, not only to determine a final figure, but also to strengthen the entire learning process. This ultimately makes everyone, the whole education and the students, better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you very much. So much for the first term. Then we move on to the second term. I'll see if there's any MPs left who'd like to add anything. That's the case. Let us begin by listening to Mr Heerema of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Rog and Mr Bishop and the Minister for their first reply. Thank you for answering my colleague Becker's questions. It was her maiden speech back then. You clearly state that a mandatory interim measurement as such is less direct about how and more about what. It was a relatively short answer and I understand that, because in practice there is not much changing in school. Some schools can still test students to see if they are on course for the exam, so that a school can adjust in time and not only afterwards for a subsequent batch. The student must be at the centre. The possibility of continuing to test remains with this initiative law as well. However, the applicants and the VVD clearly disagree on the applicants' argument that a diagnostic test would be an infringement of the freedom of education. I would like to say here that we do not support this argument and therefore also distance ourselves from this argument from the explanatory statement. Despite the fact that we have different approach routes, I agree with the course of this initiative law, taking into account my comments on the freedom of education in relation to the importance of preparing students for the exam and society. I don't like the hook to settle an obligation through a General Measure of Board outside the Chamber. If we settle the obligation, then by law in the Chamber, so that we can have a nice debate about it. Mr President, the initiators answered the questions as asked clearly in the first period. Our last sentence in the first term was: we look forward to the answer; on that basis the VVD will consider whether it can support the bill. Here's what I can do. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the authors of the bill, Mr Bishop of the SGP and Mr Rog of the CDA. I remember the last time we talked about this bill, because that was indeed our maiden speech for me and also for a number of other people here. Mr Van der Molen referred here to his childhood. I remember that. I also referred to the time when I first came into contact with the House of Representatives. That had to do with a number of student protests that we organized. That is something else, but also a cheerful touch with politics. It was also an exciting moment back then. I remember when we were allowed to stand here for the first time to say something. Last time I spoke in detail about trusting teachers, because they know best what is good for education. This was referred to in detail in the reply. As a government, we must therefore be reluctant to introduce all kinds of additional obligations, such as additional tests. The coalition agreement deletes the requirement for a diagnostic test. I have just asked what is the difference between what is in the coalition agreement and what the proposers intend to do with this bill. As far as we are concerned, good and detailed answers have been given to the questions we had. It is quite clear to us and GroenLinks therefore wants to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. Recently, I myself took Mrs Westerveld on a similar path to those of the gentlemen here. In any case, I now have even more appreciation for writing an own-initiative proposal. I've found out that there's a lot to be done. I don't think anyone will be surprised that the SP supports this proposal. That was clear in the first period. It also fits in with a broader battle that we will continue to fight here against the freaking out test culture and the outspoken protocolization for the professionalisation of teachers. I can already hear Mr Beertema grumbling, but I was just about to compliment him on continuing to promote the feedback culture that he rightly called attention to. It is very much needed, just like space for the teacher. I think I have satisfied everyone in a unique confluence of circumstances. So I'm just gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	I call Mr Bertema of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yeah, well, then we're gonna have to ruin the party a little bit, Mr. Chairman. It's no different. In any case, thank you for explaining this to my fellow Members and also thank you for the Minister's advice. In the first term, I have already referred in detail to the short memory of the Chamber. The quality of education had fallen dramatically. The core subjects of language and mathematics were heavily under pressure. Higher education, business and, in fact, society as a whole complained. It was a very bad time when it came to the pathetic level of knowledge of our students. New learning and competence-driven education had taken their toll. Repair work had to be carried out. That happened during Rutte I. Of course, the direction of the government is part of the restoration work. Keys and also the intermediate diagnostic key form a piece of direction that helps. It has already been mentioned a few times and my colleague from the VVD has already said it: the test we are talking about now has a formational purpose. It's a didactic tool that needs to make sense of where the faults are. I understand that sensitivity when it comes to the freedom of education and so not so very well, I say with Mr. Heerma. The fact is, Mr President, that the D66 agenda is to detest education. Because that's what I'm calling it: it's about a process of unchecking. That's the D66 agenda. I also understand why that agenda isn't there. Mr. Van Meenen is served at his beck and call by the colleagues here in trade-K. This is now indeed supported by these parties. I hope not, but no doubt another piece of government guidance is disappearing today. That's too bad. In the first term I referred to the culture of "freedom, happiness" in education. I just heard Mrs Westerveld say that the teachers know best. Mrs Westerveld, I wish it were. During that debate we also talked about teachers, who know so well and who said that correct language, the correct use of Dutch is an exclusion mechanism that we finally had to stop. Because what did those d's and d's really matter? Teacher trainers, those are the people who train our teachers and who, according to you, all know so well. They don't know. And that's why I'm saying that that government should still have the ability to continue to direct. Therefore, the possibility of a legal obligation to impose a diagnostic test should be retained. We will therefore certainly vote against this bill. By the way, Mr President, I tabled this motion two weeks after that debate in order to preserve that correct Dutch. That is where a huge mistake has been made. Fortunately, that has been widely recognised. All parties voted in favour, except the PvdA. I'd like to mention that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	It's recorded for eternity. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van der Molen of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said about my childhood, that's how I've been given. If I had known then that I was ever allowed to speak in this Chamber about a proposal to delete the legal basis for the diagnostic test, I do not know if the fire for politics had ignited in me. Anyway, at least it is. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for answering the questions we asked in the first term. Actually, it's very clear for the CDA. The proposal before us adds something to the freedom of schools, but above all to school leaders and teachers, in order to make choices according to their own way of working about how they want to portray the talents and sometimes also the shortcomings of their pupils. The CDA believes that they should have that freedom and that it cannot therefore be possible to find something of it from The Hague through a general measure of governance. At least we will have to talk about this in Parliament, but above all the room must remain with the professional. That's what we do. That is why we, as CDA, have not changed so much in our first-term contribution to this second, namely that we wholeheartedly support the proposal. We also hope that it will have a majority, so that we can see it in this Chamber and that, of course, the First Chamber will follow it, so that at least we can draw a line in the culture that has indeed arisen in recent years to tackle any problem in education with the introduction of another test. As far as the CDA is concerned, that will end too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. Then I would like to give the floor to the initiators to answer. First of all, that is Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. Given the complexity of the additional comments and questions, we have decided that I must be able to do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	That is a bold position; I agree with you. I hadn't even remembered it so much, but indeed, when that just came along, I thought: how nice it is that so many colleagues had the opportunity to make their maiden speech in the first term. Because a better opportunity than talking about an issue in education, can you hardly imagine? I remember my maiden speech was about some kind of detail kefie on Curaçao or something. I am glad that we have given this opportunity to our colleagues, and we are pleased to see that. I would like to thank the Minister for his supportive comments and his positive response. The initiators share the view that scrutiny is indeed important. By removing this possibility from the law via AMvB, we do not say: let it go. Of course, as far as we are concerned, learning is a fundamental part of good education. Thank you also to colleagues for the constructive input, even if there are some other accents, such as the representatives of the VVD and the PVV. However, it is very good that we have been able to discuss a very important issue of education, quality of education in a constructive way. We are very grateful to colleagues for that. Thanks also for the support and for the appreciated words. The argument that the diagnostic test as such is not an infringement of the freedom of education is, in itself, true. But we would like to add: as far as the schools themselves make that choice. The imposition from above, and even through the channel of an AMvB, is just a step too far and that corrects this initiative proposal. Mr. Beertema says he's coming to interrupt the party. Well, we certainly don't experience it that way. With an apology that it may be too soft and too clumsy, that might be possible, but here again I see more of a difference in nuance than a fundamentally different line of thinking. We share with Mr Beertema that the whole package of good testing, both Summatic and Formative, is part of good education. As a government, you're also supposed to watch that happen. Only the question is, and I think that is the difference of opinion, whether a diagnostic intermediate test imposed from above should be an instrument for that. As far as we are concerned, the little ball is at the inspection to monitor the way in which schools implement ensuring the quality of education for pupils, because that is what pupils are entitled to. The suggestion that the SGP achieves a point from the D66 or CDA programme should be removed, at least for the SGP. In fact, I think that this is even literally included in the SGP election programme, in the 'education' section. At least it fits in with the thinking line. And indeed, then D66 and the SGP touch each other at this point and we can also give each other the hand and pull together on this point. Mr. Chairman. I think I have responded sufficiently to the various comments. I would also like to thank my fellow Members once again for their strong support. I look forward to the vote with confidence. I hope that we will be able to defend this bill on the other side in the not too long term, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	And by "the other side," you mean the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	The votes here will take place on Tuesday. I thank the initiators. Thanks also to the Minister for his presence. So much for this debate. I'm suspending to the clock of 12.50 hours. Then we have the order of business, and until then this Chamber is just as empty.
