ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act to accelerate housing and facilitate sustainable development, such as the sustainability of energy use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the MPs, the one person in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Eight speakers have signed up. This is law enforcement. The MPs have made an estimate of the time in advance. Since it's a legal treatment, I don't want to be too strict with the number of interruptions. So it depends a bit on the debate, but I would ask you to intervene briefly. Then there is also a little more possible. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The municipalities are pleased with this law. Thank you to the Minister for the speedy examination of this proposal. It allows municipalities to experiment more easily and extensively with the instruments of the Environmental Law for achieving societal challenges in anticipation of the Environmental Law. We are thinking, above all, of speeding up the planning of housing. However, the Crisis and Recovery Act, or rather the Transition Act, does not provide sufficient evidence of this. That is a missed opportunity now, given the recent amendment to the Gas Act, precisely in the coming years of the market and the citizens are being asked to make a huge effort to make the energy transition a success. The municipalities are in favour of supplementing the present list of laws from which derogations can be made with the laws that need adaptation for the purposes of the energy transition and the laws that are incorporated into the Environmental Act. In order to stimulate current developments in housing and energy transition in conjunction, innovative projects should be supported by the possible deviation from legislation and regulations that have an adverse effect on them. However, we must be careful in this. It can be considered, for example, to add laws such as the Nature Protection Act, the Roads Act, the Gas Act, the Telecommunications Act, the Wind Energy Act at Sea, the Mining Act, the Underground Act, the Tracé Act, the Water State Act 1900, the Obstacles Act private law, the State Water Works Act Management Act, parts of the Environmental Management Act and the Land Planning Act. But we cannot do that all at once and, as I said, we will have to do it carefully. I'd like to go into more detail on the Law of Decoration Rural Area, cheerfully abbreviated with the Willow. Will the Minister state what she thinks of the request that the laws should be further incorporated into the Transition Act and/or into the Transition Act? The Crisis and Recovery Act? Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her response to our request to see whether the suggestions made by LTO Glass Power Netherlands are valuable. I am pleased that the Minister recognises the need and urgency for the restructuring of greenhouse horticulture areas. Area declarations are multiple, requiring an integrated territorial approach. A poignant example of this is Rijsenhout, where the decay has occurred and where governments do not have enough tools to get things moving again. The fact is that the restructuring process in the Willow is very well defined. But it is also a fact that there has been no experience of the existing agricultural equipment for the restructuring of greenhouse horticulture areas. Thus, the expropriation instrument has not been used for that purpose either. The Minister now uses this as the main argument to discourage the inclusion of the Willow in the Crisis and Recovery Act. If I understand correctly, the Minister says to LTO: first, hold a pilot project with all relevant parties with such an area process and then we will see if the Crisis and Recovery Act is necessary. The mandatory re-location of buildings does not remain an option for the Minister at the moment that she wishes to further investigate. We do not share that view. We believe that the legal toolbox of governments should be full, but the Minister says that there are plenty of tools. We would like to see that, if necessary, the right tools can also be used. Those involved in the field are strongly asking for it. The Minister writes that she would like to come back to the Chamber if it turns out that in some situations it is necessary to use the land consolidation instrument. So I do not hear any fundamental objections, just the argument that there is probably enough tools in the box. We will therefore be tabling an amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also responded to an explicit request from NEPROM, for which he thanked. Widening the scope of the Crisis and Recovery Act is very important. However, we share the criticism that the inclusion of management measures in land use plans in relation to the Housing Act is not correct. Management measures do not belong in a zoning plan, but in a housing regulation. In our view, experiments on this are not desirable either. Our group also has some questions about the criterion of sustainable development and innovation to justify the use of the Crisis and Recovery Act. We share the Minister's view that sustainable development also relates to the competitiveness of the economy, employment and the use of space. All these aspects of sustainable development are important. Accelerating housing production and making it more sustainable must go hand in hand, but the CDA is reluctant that the importance of building production should be subordinated to other interests. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. Can the designation procedure for projects of national significance be adapted so that many more projects are more easily covered? In our view, projects in which a significant number of homes are realized in a tense housing market should be more easily granted the status of a project of national significance. Does the Minister wish to deal more flexibly with the requests of the municipalities to designate such projects? I notice that I left the last part of my speech on my table. I'm gonna go get him. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u4	That's okay. We'll just wait until you get back. This is just a moment for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u5	Apologies. I'm almost ready to finish. Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's the thing. With the pressure on the housing market, we are talking a lot about large-scale expansions, but there are also, of course, small expansions. In small villages, maintaining viability is an important challenge and often increasing the number of homes is already a significant step forward. That is why we are proposing that small housing projects should also be speeded up. These are construction projects which mainly provide for the construction of at least 12 new homes and not more than 1,500 new homes on one access road or 2,000 homes on two access roads. The CDA wants the minimum number of dwellings to be adjusted downwards to 5. We have an amendment to this effect (35013, No. 18) submitted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u6	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a new amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act, a law that, let's face it, is actually not a temporary crisis law anymore, but a permanent law that provides a basis for deviating from existing legislation, and a law that actually functions as a kind of transitional law to the new Environment Act. I'll start with the second one. It is good that in the run-up to the introduction of the Environment Act, municipalities and provinces are given room to adapt to the new system. A transition never goes from one day to the next. But among other things, the Council of State expresses its concern at the extent to which local authorities are able to make really good assessments. We had a discussion about this an hour ago, in the previous debate. We think it is important for the Minister to recognise that there are risks of such a huge legislative change. I'd like to know if that's true and if so, which ones are. I would also like to know from the Minister how she is going to ensure that the problems that will undoubtedly arise in the event of such a major legislative change are addressed seriously and adequately when the Environment Act is introduced. Mr. Chairman. Then the more fundamental point of departure from existing legislation for GroenLinks. With the present amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act, there will be additional possibilities to deviate from laws. My group is not satisfied with this, because it is becoming increasingly a trend that we are offering in advance all kinds of possibilities to deviate from laws that we have not ever introduced for nothing, and often without having a clear view of the consequences of the derogations. That is why I would very much like to hear a few concrete examples from the Minister, the more concrete, the better where the legislative proposal before us is going to lead. Why is this bill needed and what are the consequences for spatial quality? Mr. Chairman. My group is not satisfied with the way in which derogations are granted. If this bill is adopted, ministerial rules may derogate from laws in a formal sense. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that is not the way we should go. I have therefore tabled an amendment, together with Mr Van Gerven, which is in line with the criticism of the Council of State, which seeks to ensure that derogations always run through an AMvB procedure. Then there is more insight into the decisions that are taken in concrete terms and we in the Chamber are not only confronted with decisions that may have negative effects on spatial quality. That was my first-term input. I look forward to the Minister's response to both my input and the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u8	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u9	Mr. Chairman. New construction has been built without gas since 1 July. For the existing neighbourhoods, there is still a huge challenge to take them off the gas. In the long term, municipalities are expected to be able to designate specific districts with the so-called Energy Act 1.0 to be decoupled from natural gas. Actually, it's taking too long. For example, 27 municipalities are already active in the test gardens of natural gas-free neighbourhoods, from Amsterdam to Brunssum and from Middelburg to Tietjerksteradeel. These municipalities gain knowledge and experience to extract neighbourhoods from the gas feasible and affordable. And then it's about the existing construction. The possibility to designate a district to become gas-free does not yet exist, because the Gas Act provides for a gas connection obligation. This clashes with the ambition of municipalities to designate areas with wider scope to become gas-free through the so-called zoning plans. As a result, the test gardens are in danger of being legally blocked and cannot be properly experimented. The bill we are discussing today provides for several laws on experimental space in Article 2.4. The Gas Act is not part of that. The written reply states that there is no need for this because no obstacles are experienced from the point of view of practice. I only hear other sounds from the municipalities. The experimental space in other laws is not yet sufficient, as in the Progress Act energy transition, the FAT Act. I therefore tabled an amendment together with my colleague Jessica van Eijs of D66 to add the Gas Act to the experimental space in the Crisis and Recovery Act. The amendment is explicitly not intended to change the division of tasks between network operators and municipalities. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u10	I would like to hear from the honourable Member who is tabling this amendment how she can guarantee that private owners living in the areas she is now proposing will have self-determination over their own homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u11	The Netherlands faces a huge challenge when it comes to the energy transition. This means that municipalities that are given the direction will identify neighbourhoods that will have to be provided with heat in a different way. That's just the deal we made with each other. However, municipalities do not have enough room to fill that out now. That is why it is my proposal to bring the Gas Act under the Crisis and Recovery Act. I do not see how my amendment will change the area of residents to object and appeal, for example. It's not supposed to be like that. That is the possibility offered by the Crisis and Recovery Act, and my amendment does not really change that at all. So if residents feel that in their case, the municipality should not do so in their home, then the regular course of justice as we agreed in the Crisis and Recovery Act is just open to those residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u12	In our view this is not the case, but I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this suggestion from the Christian Union. If that is not the case, would you perhaps amend your amendment by adding it to, for example, those areas which are already designated at the moment, where testing areas are possible? Because then you create one-on-one the possibility and you do not damage the rights of citizens who simply want to warm their own homes in their own way. "For the time being," I say, because after that, of course, we are all going to be very sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u13	A bright future is outlined here. Indeed, a lot of test areas have been designated. This cabinet has also made money available for this. I can very well imagine that the amendment is also very helpful to these neighbourhoods. People also live in these neighbourhoods. They can therefore also use the legal process described in the Crisis and Recovery Act. However, let us ask the Minister how she sees the amendment and whether further framing is necessary. If further framing is needed, I am certainly prepared to take a look at this with the co-author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u14	There is an interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u15	As GroenLinks, we very much welcome the Christian Union and D66 amendments. I would be very sorry if you would only apply it to the test gardens, because those are the selected districts that have also received money from the Ministry, while in many other places in the Netherlands municipalities are working on the sustainability of neighbourhoods that unfortunately were not in the first tranche. It would, I think, be very unfortunate if they could not use it. So I would ask you to leave your amendment as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u16	A dilemma, Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u17	This is a clear apple from the GroenLinks group. I am prepared to look at my amendment. Maybe the word "frame" isn't right, but I'd like to see if we can target the lake. If it's just about the testing areas, that would be a shame. Municipalities are also in favour of a restructuring notice for certain districts. It would be a good thing if this amendment provided room for manoeuvre. Mr Smeulders' appeal is therefore a justified appeal. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. It is important that the AMvB lays down detailed rules for these experiments. For example, residents should have a good and affordable alternative to their heat supply. In addition, municipalities and network operators need to be closely involved. Can the Minister say more about this? Mr. Chairman. Innovation is indispensable in making homes more sustainable. Earlier this year, research carried out by the University of Groningen and Building Netherlands showed that construction focuses mainly on price competition and that innovations are lacking. Investments go not so much towards new knowledge but towards cost savings and outsourcing. How does the Minister intend to stimulate innovation in construction? And how is innovation applied to the test grounds and natural gas-free neighbourhoods, so that we are smartly sustainable? Secondly, without professionals there is no housing, no sustainability and no innovation. We need capacity and manpower in the market, but the shortage of technicians and installers is enormous. The construction is 50,000 people short. It's gonna be like this for years to come. Then you can speed up procedures, but without human force, it's not gonna work. Will the Minister address this problem? Mr. Chairman. Also, the Law on Land Planning, the Wilg Ronnes has already spoken about it,... is not part of this bill. The restructuring of greenhouse horticulture areas can have considerable added value. Think of integrated landmarks in terms of the sustainability of the water supply or the use of residual heat. Of course, it is less resistant than expropriation to land. In the written replies, the Minister states that there is already a great deal to be done from the bottom up initiatives for land consolidation. But from the point of view of practice, I am told that when restructuring takes place on a voluntary basis, a few people can frustrate the process. Can the Minister comment on this? Mr. Chairman. Through the project implementation decision, the decision-making process can be speeded up for projects of social importance, for example for education and care. Stakeholder involvement remains sufficiently secure at the front of the process through participation, the Minister said. In the written round, the Christian Union asked why energy projects are not part of the categories of projects of social importance. It is, of course, renewable energy. The government replied that energy projects could be brought under the scope of the project implementation decision to AMvB. She even sees added value in that. How did the talks with parties in the energy sector take place, as promised in the reply? Can the Minister confirm that spatial integration is still careful if the decision-making process is accelerated? I am thinking, for example, of the participation of people living in wind farms or the integration of solar parks into the landscape. I'd like a response. Mr President, I am sure you know that my group also has an opinion on solar parks in the landscape. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The power to take a project implementing decision is no longer placed with the city council, but with the college of mayor and aldermen. This raises questions about the involvement of the city council and democratic control. The Minister reports that the division of powers is aligned with the system in other laws, such as the Wabo and the Wro. How are the involvement and control of the city council secured in the bill? Is it really necessary for the speed of decision-making to remove the power from the city council? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u18	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The pressure on the housing market is high. That's not a surprise for anyone in this house. However, this is a problem. We can even speak of a national problem. Starters cannot find an affordable home. Threaders are trapped in their rental house and older people cannot move into a life-resistant home. In addition to the motto 'building, building, building', we must also ensure that it can be built faster than it is now. Current legislation does not take sufficient account of regional differences in the housing market and therefore does not allow for customisation. That is why Mr Ronnes and I tabled a motion in February of this year in which we asked to see what legislation could be broken to speed up housing projects. The VVD therefore welcomes the amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act, which responds to our call. In anticipation of the Environment Act, this law will ensure faster procedures, which can be shortened by up to one year. This will allow housing projects to get off the ground faster. The faster the procedures go, the faster people can actually turn their homes into homes. That's what we all end up doing for. Twice a year, the procedure for amending the Decision Implementing Crisis and Recovery Act, the so-called tranches, starts. The aim is to add new projects to the Crisis and Recovery Act. I do not think that the list of projects carried out so far is particularly impressive. For the near future 10,000 homes are on the verge of being built. This is a home for a lot of people, I understand. But I would like to challenge the Minister to work more quickly, as there is such a serious shortage. Can the Minister, for example, consider whether the possibilities of the Crisis and Recovery Act are sufficiently well known to everyone? Every municipality must know that they can propose projects to speed up housing. Is this also the case? A related question is: can the minister perhaps proactively approach municipalities and developers through the province or the VNG in order to prolong the list of the Crisis and Recovery Act? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. In addition, projects falling under the "local and supraregional projects of national significance" criterion are currently eligible. As I said at the beginning, the VVD is currently talking about a national problem. As far as we are concerned, almost all housing projects could be classified under this category. How's the minister looking at this? Is the Minister prepared to deal more flexibly with this criterion so that we can actually speed up housing? Then there is my final point. An amendment has been made to add a number of colleagues to the Law on the Establishment of the Rural Area to the Crisis and Recovery Act, in line with a motion previously tabled. Adding the Willow to the Crisis and Restoration Act helps the agricultural and horticultural sector to enable the land consolidation. This will enable large restructuring plans to be implemented. From the sector, we also hear a strong demand for this. This contributes to the sustainability of the sector, and many of you find that very pleasant. And it contributes to the improvement of the landscape. Who doesn't love that? However, waiting for the Environmental Act is not an option for this sector. A question to the Minister: can the Minister state what are the objections to not helping the sector? So much for my first term, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u20	I think Mrs Laan has a point that there is not yet a very long list of projects that are underneath. Realised projects will, of course, be even fewer. Does Mrs Laan agree with me that not every housing project necessarily has to be covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act in order to simply implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u21	No, if everything runs smoothly and everyone agrees and the first pole is beaten by an alderman who is very proud of a number of new homes, then it is indeed not necessary. But we see and hear too often that there are all kinds of obstacles. And if so, it could be accelerated with the help of the Crisis and Recovery Act. So we'd just like to see the more the merrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u22	Mrs. Van Eijs? It's been adequately answered. Thank you, Mrs Laan. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Never washed a good crisis, use a crisis to permanently allow deviation from rules. That seems to be the thrust of this legislative amendment. The crisis in 2008 was already used to create a crisis and recovery law. An economic crisis, which made it painfully clear to us that the linear economic growth model is outdated, was taken as a reason to give further scope to that system, which relies on eternal economic growth at the expense of everything. Rules were tricky and procedures only took time. They were sacrificed on the altar of economics. The law proved to offer so many economic benefits that in 2014 a majority of the Chamber decided not to introduce it temporarily but permanently, as if the state of emergency was declared permanent. And even that was apparently not enough, because now the need on the housing market is being used to further weaken the rules and procedures in that sector. Nature and green must do with it, have no voice. Mr. Chairman. Man represents only 0.01% of life on earth and this splinter fraction nevertheless also seizes this opportunity to put the rest of life still further behind. Last week, Rijksbouwmeester Alkemade wrote that 8.3 hectares of outer territory are extracted daily. That's 12 football fields! We are in favour of building only in urban areas and not in nature. The Animal Party fully supports this, because green is good for human and animal health, for social cohesion and biodiversity, and is necessary in times of climate change. We can't live without it. Building developments require a careful approach. Climate assessment and climate adaptation should be taken into account. People need to be able to live close to work in order to limit car traffic, to build circular buildings and to avoid further pressure on biodiversity. It is also important to go through procedures properly. In this crisis and speedy legislation, we are actually talking about a derogation from existing legislation, and this care is at risk. The change in the law that is now before us gives administrators and developers even more space not to take into account the quality of life and nature. It also undermines the democratic legitimacy of decision-making. A number of examples. First of all, the period of derogation from existing laws and regulations through the Crisis and Recovery Act. It is foreseen that derogations may be granted until the entry into force of the Environment Act in 2021, but if that law does not enter into force, the current derogations are unlimited in time. We also read this in the opinion of the Council of State. How problematic this can be, we can now see at Schiphol Airport where the old enforcement frameworks have already been abolished but the new ones have not yet been introduced. There can therefore be no maintenance on any basis. Does the Minister agree with us that this is highly undesirable and is she prepared to limit the derogations at least in time to 2021 at the latest? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the amendment of the criteria to be met in order to derogate from the law. Under the current Crisis and Recovery Act, three vague general conditions must be met: sustainability, innovation and the fight against the economic crisis. In the future, even wider criteria will be introduced to contribute to sustainable development, to strengthening economic structures or to sustainable development and innovation. In the cabinet's view, issues contributing to sustainable development are the competitiveness of the economy, employment and the financial system. However, the current financial system and the drive for competitiveness in the economy cannot, of course, be regarded as sustainable. A financial system that does not respect the social boundaries of our society and the physical boundaries of our earth is, by definition, unsustainable. Can the Minister indicate how these criteria are defined in this bill? And shouldn't meeting the Paris climate agreement be one of the criteria? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The third point that concerns us is the part about the appropriate assessments and the Nature Protection Act. I quote: "Conversations with interested parties show that the Nature Protection Act is perceived as oppressive'. That is worrying language, because of course the Nature Protection Act is oppressive for project developers. That's the idea. That's why it's called the Nature Protection Act. This protects nature and does not conflict with the commitment of many civil society organisations, local authorities and the Ministry of Nature Development and Nature Management in the Netherlands. The Minister states that procedural arrangements are to be made to make use of the exemptions and exemptions provided by the Nature Protection Act, while at the same time making use of the experimental possibilities provided by the Crisis and Recovery Act. My question to the Minister is: what are we supposed to mean by the 'procedural agreements' she proposes? It seems as if the Nature Protection Act is maintained in order to be able to use the benefits, i.e. the exemptions and exemptions, but at the same time to avoid the burdens, taking nature into account, by means of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I'd like a response from the Minister. I still have a thought about those statements of no invention. With this law, the Minister intends to give lectures the opportunity to refrain from giving such a statement in advance. If another competent authority, say the province, wants to grant a licence, the college must now state that it has no reservations. The Minister now wants that even to be omitted, because it is no longer covered by the extended procedure under the General Administrative Law, and that saves a few weeks. Is it true that no proper assessment will be made of the expected effects on nature areas, but only a statement of no reservations should be made? The same explanation of no thought, which may be waived if no effect is expected in advance. Surely it is logical that no effects are expected if no studies have been carried out on these expected effects? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Our fourth concern: the power to decide on project implementation decisions is removed from the city council and deposited with the mayor's and aldermen's college. By way of derogation from the zoning plan, this makes it possible for the municipal council to allow the construction of up to 2,000 new buildings. At the very least, the city council should be involved as a primary administrative body. The argument for removing this power from local representatives is largely that they do not meet often enough, and that when they meet, they already have many other issues on the agenda. My group thinks that is a really strange figure. From the national authorities all kinds of things are decentralised and then the local parliament is deprived of the task, because they do not get to discuss it quickly enough. Can the Minister reflect on that? And can the Minister indicate in how many cases projects have been truly unacceptable delays pending a city council meeting? It seems to be a far-reaching solution without a problem. Then point five, the tightening of air quality requirements. Finally, a point that we can reasonably agree on. However, we still have some questions about it. What about the exception for state roads? Municipalities may impose stricter air quality requirements, but this should not affect existing and future national roads. State roads, of course, also contribute to total air pollution, but should not municipalities near national roads impose stricter air quality requirements because it has been decided at national level that 130 must be possible to drive? And what if a municipality has set a strict air quality requirement and the Empire decides to build a national road there? Is it possible, then, that air quality requirements will be set aside and that air quality will deteriorate dramatically there? Mr. Chairman. My final point is to cut up the project implementation decision. The project implementation decisions were designed not to go through everything in stages, but simply to get everything granted at once. Now it appears that it is not possible for directors and developers to oversee and deliver everything at the beginning, and so the Minister now decides with this legislative amendment, to ensure that the project implementation decision can be split up. Doesn't that exactly reflect the need for the procedures that she wanted to circumvent first? Doesn't that just show that it's impossible to oversee and manage the construction of 2,000 homes and their effects at one point before the start? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Does the Minister agree with us that this amendment of the law gives a great deal of room? Does it really believe that earlier stricter regulation was unnecessary, that these procedures were not set up for a very good reason? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This proposal for a crisis and speed-up legislation, which is now before my group, is a form of administrative hooliganism: to de facto reduce the protection of nature and landscape in the context of 'we can see what comes of it'. For the time being, we cannot agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u24	Thank you. I call Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Crisis and Recovery Act. At present, for example, the implementation of a housing project may derogate from existing laws and regulations if three criteria are met: contributing to sustainability, contributing to innovation and contributing to the fight against the economic crisis. With this change of law, that's gonna change. This will allow derogations from existing laws and regulations if, in any case, they contribute to sustainable development and, in addition, to innovative developments or to strengthening the economic structure. That is a lot of woolly language, but it simply means that the emphasis will be on sustainability. What exactly is that, "sustainable development"? On the advice of the Council of State, the Minister added a definition of this to the 1987 explanatory memorandum, a definition from the UN: "to meet the needs of the present generation without thereby compromising the possibility for future generations to meet their needs." But even so, what exactly does that mean? The use of new technologies for the energy transition, the Minister writes among other things. Look, here comes the monkey from the sleeve. So this terrible energy transition is also covered by this core criterion. Once again, that is what the emphasis is now on. So sustainability and energy transition, that's what it's all about. And speaking of sustainability: just a well-built high-quality home that knows how many years can go without expensive climate measures, there is practically nothing more sustainable than that. A new construction project accelerated by the Crisis and Recovery Act therefore does not necessarily contribute to, as it is called, strengthening the economic structure. What does that mean? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Does that mean, in practice, that the use of new techniques for the energy transition without having to produce anything concrete and, more importantly, that it will only cost more money, but it does not matter anymore? I'd like a response. And to realise that the Crisis and Recovery Act was created in 2009 precisely to combat the financial and economic crisis. With this change of law, the law will now be used for the opposite, including for the priceless energy transition. How does the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the project implementation decision. The Minister describes this as a quick way to decide on the implementation of housing projects. At present, the city council has the power to make such a decision. The Minister writes that this can lead to delays, because attention is paid to the city council often meets in a limited manner. Therefore, it is now proposed to transfer the power to take a project implementing decision from the Board to the College of Mayors and aldermen. The city council is the highest body within the municipality. Council members carry out a controlling task and do so with the mandate of the electorate by whom they were directly elected. They are now being deprived of democratically acquired powers. The Minister's argument that the city council is not meeting enough to make such decisions is, of course, nonsense. That really is a very ill-thought-out argument, because almost every week there is a meeting. In reality, therefore, the council is put out of play. And no doubt the Minister is going to say: no, no, none of that is true; there is indeed involvement of the Council, namely in the form of a statement of no reservations. Article 6.5 of the Environmental Law Decree states that "the environmental permit shall not be granted unless the city council has declared that it has no reservations about it'. Of course that all sounds nice and nice, but the question is what that is worth in practice. The same article of that environmental law decision states that "the declaration can only be refused in the interests of good land-use planning'. So if the board does not want to express any reservations about a project that promotes, for example, the energy transition, but in the opinion of B and W is not contrary to good land-use planning, then B and W can just put that aside. Is that right? I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, the Minister wishes to add to Article 2.3, third paragraph a section which states that the College of B and W may designate categories of cases where no statement of no reservations is required. But what categories? Can the Minister explain that? 'Cause they're not there. Can B and W come up with them themselves? Does that mean a carte blanche for B and W? I'd like a response. In addition, what is this bill for? "For acceleration," the Minister will undoubtedly answer. Attorney's office Stibbe in Amsterdam, which has devoted an extensive piece of legislation to this amendment, states that the involvement of the council through a statement of no reservations some of the acceleration envisaged by the government may not be achieved. How does the Minister respond to this? She writes that the whole procedure can be shortened by one year by this legislative amendment. That sounds good, but the NVM recently told the PVV that a housing project, completely from idea to key transfer, could take just eight, nine, ten years. Then the question is: one year shorter, does that really make sense? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u26	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u27	Mr. Chairman. The housing shortage is high and that is no surprise; not for the Lower House, not for the Minister. More than once it has been warned, such as the introduction of an additional tax on housing corporations, the landlord's tax. The construction of affordable rental houses has almost stopped in recent years. Does the Minister agree with the SP that the current housing shortage is caused by political choices? Because between 2010 and 2015, 22,500 homes were not built while there were permits for them. It has been a political choice not to intervene. In 2016 it appeared that almost half of all construction workers had been flooded and no longer worked in construction. But the cabinet did nothing; a political choice. And now there is not only a shortage of construction workers, but also a shortage of affordable construction sites, sometimes a shortage of construction equipment and a shortage of municipal officials to handle large housing declarations. And what does the Minister do about all these deficits? 'Cause we already know, but now we're in a hurry. There is a legislative amendment under the title "accelerating housing." Yeah, how can you be against that, you'd say. But today's legislative change does not allow municipalities to make more land available. The change in the law that's going on doesn't make for any more good construction workers. I ask the Minister: what does she think is more important, time or quality? Does this cabinet believe that the speed envisaged by this bill should be at the expense of democracy? The Minister's change of law will undermine control and restrict democracy. That's a very bad thing. The SP therefore has two proposals, which are also contained in amendments, tabled together with GroenLinks. First of all, this is not putting the city council out of play when it comes to project implementation decisions. The reasoning that this is necessary for speed has also been dismissed as bullshit by other groups. I don't know if it's good Dutch, but I'd like to call it an Aunt Betje story. Everyone knows what I mean by that. Secondly, the House of Representatives should not be excluded from identifying new areas in experiments. I am referring, of course, to shifting matters from general administrative measures to ministerial arrangements. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the SP wants more affordable homes to come soon, more houses. But the question is what side effects have the means used to achieve that acceleration. The resources of the cabinet have passed the crisis on to the tenants; I refer to the landlord levy. They are now putting not only the representatives of the people on the sidelines but also the environment, because environmental standards can be set aside for ten years. I really wonder how this can be done when this cabinet calls itself 'the greenest cabinet ever' or wants to be called that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u28	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u29	Can the honourable Member, who has so far only seen bears and other complications on the road and who has not said anything positive so far, also make recommendations which will enable the SP to build the homes it likes to see in the coming period? For all the objections are now clear, but what are you going to propose to change it? That is what a number of other colleagues and I did in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u30	The VVD has some nerve, I must say. You've broken everything down for the last ten years: Rutte I, II, III. You are responsible for the introduction of the landlord's tax. You place the burden on the tenants. You made sure that 10,000 homes weren't built. What we have now proposed, and also in the past, is to abolish this landlord's tax and make it an investment obligation. That's what's going on. Not this kind of measure, which actually undermines democracy and does not solve the fundamental problem such as housing corporations. They've been plucked bald over the past few years. How long has this landlord tax been around? Almost ten years. They have been given far too little resources to invest. That should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u31	Once again, I find the honourable Member too easy: if we lift or introduce a tax, homes will suddenly be built. We're talking about the Crisis and Recovery Act. We have made proposals to make it possible to build homes faster, including in the category you consider important. I still don't hear from the SP how you want to make a concrete contribution to building more homes, which your supporters are really waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u32	Then we should not make laws, I say to the VVD, which make society more undemocratic, which put the city council at a distance, which put Parliament further at a distance. Because you don't build houses by decree; you need investments for that. Again, I also said in my story: 22,500 homes were ready to be built. And why aren't they built? Because that landlord's tax was due. I would therefore say: invest in this and not in the abolition of democratic rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u33	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u34	I was at the abolition of democracy. Or the restriction of democracy, which of course is not totally abolished. It was about taking out the... Or no, I would have stayed with "the greenest cabinet ever." I would like an appreciation from the cabinet of that, because they allow environmental standards to be set aside for ten years. Another element that has not yet been addressed is the ICT call. It's very complex. We have to pay attention, I tell the Minister, that it is not going to be an ICT complex. That's what I'm saying as an old house doctor. How is the Minister going to prevent the municipalities from getting completely out of hand when it comes to the ICT call? Do the municipalities have sufficient resources to achieve this? The SP opts for other means than this cabinet. It is not for nothing that the SP has submitted many proposals in recent years, such as converting the landlord's tax into an investment obligation, or setting up an investment fund to hunt down the construction and come up with a national construction plan. Is the Minister prepared to do so now? Does the Minister of the Interior choose for the People's Assembly or for project developers? Does she choose quality or speed, with all the negative consequences? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u35	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the very long title of this bill I am not going to read it, although I can quickly do so with the words'sustainable development' and'sustaining energy consumption'. Of course, that appeals to D66 very much. Sustainable building is not only good for the residents' wallet, but also for the climate and a healthy living environment. This bill is also intended to speed up housing, because as we have discussed many times here, there is a considerable backlog and there is therefore a large construction estimate of 75,000 homes per year. Let us tackle this great task of building houses smartly: not only energy efficient but also as quickly as possible and as circular as possible. Unfortunately, that is not yet part of the proposal. But the transition to truly sustainable, so energy efficient and circular, wants to stimulate and accelerate D66. "Sustainable" also means stable as far as D66 is concerned. Most of the homes or residential areas we build, we don't build for a few months or a few years. Houses in the Netherlands are built to stand for decades. Also in a crisis and especially in a period of blooming and great demand like now, we must build neighbourhoods where people still want to live in decades, and no neighborhoods that they will soon be saying "that they have ever been able to build in this way; a wise man with his head cannot reach that!" So we want to see well-closed neighborhoods with circularly built, energy-neutral homes and lots of green areas where water is collected and heat stress is prevented. And of course without gas connections. The transition to zero natural gas has already started. New buildings are no longer connected to the natural gas network. That is a good step, because burdening new residents with an outdated heat supply is antisocial. Cities also want to make a full effort to make their contribution to the energy transition in a rapid and careful manner. The large response to the Ministry of the Interior's request for pilot projects of gas-free neighborhoods makes that very clear. However, the Gas Act and other laws provide virtually no room for decoupling the natural gas network. It is important to work vigorously to reduce dependence on natural gas in the built environment. In addition, the municipality must be given the direction. Because we really need to move on to clean energy. Municipalities want the power to include in the zoning plan a date by area or neighbourhood on which the natural gas connections of existing buildings can be disconnected, making the district or territory natural gas free. That is why, together with the Christian Union, we are tabling an amendment to this effect. In addition to the sustainability aspect, the proposal should further accelerate housing. But that should not be at the expense of the democratic legitimacy of projects and decisions. With the new form of the project implementation decision, there is a risk that the representatives of the people will not be heard or not be heard in the case of housing projects. Fortunately, we know the statement of no objection. But D66 doubt that's enough. As a city council member, one of my biggest frustrations was that almost everyone has already found something of a zoning change before the council can say yes to it all the way at the end. Because saying no will be very difficult if the municipality has been working on an initiative for years. I see Mr. Ronnes at the interrupting microphone, but may I finish this, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u37	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u38	I have also experienced that almost the entire council did not want to support an initiative, nor did the college, that this led to the proposal not to establish a zoning plan, but that the municipality was eventually forced by the Council of State to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u39	I understand the fear somewhat, but what the Crisis and Recovery Act is about is that there is an acceleration in housing. I understand that some additional issues are now being dealt with by the Crisis and Recovery Act, in particular by the amendment you are tabling, but the objective of the Crisis and Recovery Act, which I believe we agreed on earlier, is precisely to speed up housing. There's actually no other way to do this. Why are you so afraid now that there will be no support for the people's representatives there? There must be houses built for the people who don't have one now, mustn't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u40	I agree. I think that many municipalities do want to build and are working on it, but I think it is good if the council is more involved in the front and can earlier indicate 'we want houses there and not there' and 'we want them in another place'. This has to do not only with the houses that will lie there, but also with facilities nearby, with traffic settlements and so on. I think it would be very good if the city council could give a ruling on this at the beginning of the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u41	Well, the next thing is weird. In dealing with the Environment Act, we strongly advocated the position of the city council. At that time there was no support for that here in this Chamber, but now that we are talking about the Crisis and Recovery Act, we are talking about a law that is actually meant for cases where you need instruments to provide speed with regard to social problems that exist; it is about housing shortage, too few homes. Why don't you agree with me that a law like the Crisis and Recovery Act is primarily a matter of speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u42	I think that speed can indeed be achieved. For example, if you jointly agree a clear structural vision in a municipality at the front, you can go through it much faster at the end of the process. If you have previously discussed "here we want housing and there we want housing," then the city council knows that and then it goes much faster at the end, actually completely in the spirit of the Environment Act. I have just said it in my answers, but I will repeat it: the council should be involved much more early in the process. That is why we want an amendment to ensure that the project implementation decision fits in with the line already set out by the city council. The established structural vision should be considered as a review framework in order to determine whether a plan can qualify for a project implementation decision. I would also like to mention the size of housing projects that are eligible for this. 2,000 homes is way too much. Construction projects of more than 200 homes are already a separate outside category. The CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics, also counts these housing projects. Over the past five years, around 10% of housing projects have been in the order of 200 homes or more. Such projects deserve to be properly viewed by the elected city council. We therefore propose to reduce the size of plans eligible for project implementation decisions to up to 200 homes. On the contrary, the speed of building houses will benefit from a city council which supports the plans and does not have to lie down at the last minute. To sum up, Mr. Chairman. Accelerating housing is necessary, but we need to do it smartly with homes and neighbourhoods that are ready for the future and with plans that are supported by the local parliament, so that we can create together the places where we want to live for many decades to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u43	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about fifteen minutes to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u44	I give the floor to the Minister to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that today we can talk about the adaptation of the Crisis and Recovery Act. We have already discussed this in many debates, mainly about living and the need to speed up housing. It also happens partly on the suggestion of a number of members of this Chamber. It is very good that we are doing everything we can to ensure that what is already happening in many places in the country, namely building new homes, can be faster and easier. This is the main goal: to help local authorities realize more homes in the Netherlands. The bill regulates a simpler procedure to add areas to existing experiments. This will allow municipalities to make faster use of the experimental possibilities to realise housing and sustainability initiatives. That makes it easier to practice with the Environment Act, which we talked about earlier today. If you can get started already with an environmental plan, the transition to the Environment Act will also be easier. That is, I think, also the reason why the UNG has already renamed this law into the Transition Act. Yeah, that's a good point. The Crisis and Recovery Act has been in place for some time now, and Mr Smeulders recalled this and has been used daily in the Netherlands to enable and accelerate housing and other social developments. Since 2010, the Crisis and Recovery Act has seen administrative accelerations in the construction of more than eleven homes. For example, these administrative accelerations require the administrative judge to give a ruling within six months rather than within twelve months. Secondly, Crisis and Recovery Law experiments may derogate from specific national legal provisions. As in the Environment Act, this offers space to make local considerations. I really think that's a great thing. You can immediately solve bottlenecks and you can already work in the way that will go with the instruments of the Environment Act. It gives the municipalities more room to consider. With that, I think, we do right by the local differences. At present, a quarter of all municipalities use the zoning plan with its wider scope. Through the experiment, many municipalities in the Netherlands are building more than 150,000 homes. As a result of a consultation with the colleagues of IenW and the region where we are here, I also recently spoke with the alderman of The Hague about the Binckhorst.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thanks to the agreements we have made, but also the space provided here by the Crisis and Recovery Act, 5,000 additional homes can be realized. That's almost a stone's throw from here. I am going to try to answer all the questions asked, but allow me to briefly outline a more general picture of the contributions of the spokesmen. I believe that this change could speed up the construction of houses even further. Municipalities will be able to make faster use of the experimental possibilities. So we are doing so in a number of ways, as some of you have just said. The project implementation decision shall be amended, which may result in a time saving of at least six months. The designation procedure is simplified and the criteria are modernised. Public authorities can thus make faster use of the experimental possibility. The addition of new projects to existing experiments, under ministerial regulation, results in an average time saving of seven months. The criteria to be met by experiments are also being modernised. Sustainable development is at the heart of the matter. That is also in line with the Environment Act. Thirdly, the scope of the Crisis and Recovery Act is widened by adding more laws, such as the missing part of the Environmental Management Act and the Housing Act and the Void Law. I have just heard Mr Ronnes' list. In other words, there could be more. I shall, of course, be speaking about this in detail later. But the law is already quite widened in this way. These opportunities for experimentation can thus be better used to contribute to societal challenges in general, in particular housing, but also to the transition to sustainable energy supply and climate adaptation. We can already see that experiments are being used to enable the spatial integration of solar parks or wind farms. Furthermore, this bill perpetuates the line that governments use the Crisis and Recovery Act to practice with the Environment Act, as I said. I see in practice, in places where I come to the work visits, that there is a real need for that. I was in Zoetermeer this morning, looking at a gas-free neighborhood, one of the 27 neighbourhoods that we were able to grant. If you see how many parties work together to achieve this quickly and to bring people into such a transition, that is a very good example, and we are also contributing to this type of legislation. I wanted to walk by the questions after this. I thought I'd do that in four clusters. Questions have been asked about the project implementation decision and the ministerial arrangement, the modification of the criteria and the extension of the scope. And you already guessed: a number of questions don't fit under these headings and they fit under the heading otherwise. Before I do so, a more general question from Mr Smeulders is whether problems can arise when the Environment Act is introduced and how we can ensure that it is implemented smoothly. The most important thing is to keep working together with the other governments. The Empire does. We work together with the provinces, the municipalities and the waterboards, so that there is a joint preparation. We have made agreements, including in the Inter-Governmental Programme, on how we exchange knowledge about the new instruments known to the Environment Act. The experiments that are already under the Crisis and Recovery Act are working on this, because you can learn from that. The preparation for that implementation will be monitored. We've already started that. I report annually to your Chamber on the progress of implementation and on the experiments. That way we keep the finger on the wrist and can adjust if necessary. At the time of introduction, we will ensure that there are transition teams as well. If there are any problems, the transition team is there, to avoid them, to be honest, but otherwise at least to solve them very quickly. Then I wanted to move on to the clusters of questions and answers just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u46	Just one more question. When are you going to deal with the amendments? Do you do that by the cubes or at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u47	I think I've got them all by the cubes, or else I'll do it at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u48	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u49	I have just said that I believe that this legislative proposal will solve concrete obstacles in the context of lead times, which Mr Smeulders asked for. In order to finance a construction project, it is of course important to know as soon as possible when the permit is available and when it is irrevocable. Something like that speeds up the procedure. It will also be possible to identify more quickly areas where the potential of the Crisis and Recovery Act can be used. I have just mentioned a number of things where there are accelerations of six, seven, eight months. Of course, that all adds up. Looking at the experience so far, the projects we know under the current Crisis and Recovery Act have a good balance. Mr Smeulders feels that it is only about economic interests, but it is not. I call it Hembrug terrain, which he may know. There is a combination of transformation of business premises and housing, but also heritage. That has been put in a good balance, I think, to the satisfaction of the government concerned, but with that time savings and the faster realization of homes that we all want to see. I have just said briefly what the aim is, and that is precisely what this project implementation decision is about, because it combines all the permits and authorisations. This, of course, helps speed things up, because this involves the administrative accelerations and the appeal comes before one body, namely the Administrative Court of the Council of State. So the improvements here are the following. A phaser option is added. This means that not all decisions need to be taken at once. For example: first spatial integration, then building permits and then permission under the Nature Protection Act. Secondly: to invest the competent authority at B and W, but with the involvement of the city council. I shall come back to that in more detail in a moment. Thirdly, also include permission as a result of the Nature Protection Act in the project implementation decision. I therefore expect that this will be applied more frequently and that, on balance, this could result in a six-month acceleration. The position of the council. The transfer of the project implementation decision to the College of B and W in this bill thus brings it in line with the current Wabo. In that respect, it is nothing new. It's already happening at the Wabo. It actually only replaces permits and permissions that B and W are already responsible for. Moreover, the city council remains involved through that declaration of no objection. The board can decide whether or not a project can go ahead. It is therefore important that the position of the city council is properly secured. I'll make it even more precise, because that's what a lot of questions were about. In all cases of derogation from a zoning plan, a statement of no objection by the Board shall be required. If the board has agreed through the zoning plan and it remains within the zoning plan, yes, then it doesn't. But then, of course, the involvement of the council has already been secured, because it has ruled on the zoning plan. It thus leads to faster decision-making, but not to a deterioration of democratic control at municipal level. I say that very emphatically, because some of you were concerned about that. Mr. Chairman. The following is something on which an amendment has been tabled. Mrs Van Eijs proposed that the project implementation decision should apply to up to 200 homes. With 200 homes, the project implementation decision is applicable to a large part of the housing projects, but in order to build enough housing, we also need to be able to achieve accelerations in larger housing projects. So I think it is important that projects with more than 200 homes can also benefit from the project implementation decision. In addition, is the number of houses covered by housing 200, 500 or 1,000 houses? It does not necessarily determine whether a project is significant. Think, for example, of a transformation from an office to homes. It can be a lot of homes, but it doesn't have to be very far-reaching. So I have my reservations about that. In fact, I think 200 is too low a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u50	A question from Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u51	As I mentioned in my speech, it concerns 200 homes and 10% of all projects above them. It may be that you have a very large office building in which you can realize maybe 200 properties. That still seems to me very far-reaching for the neighborhood, in terms of traffic, parking and so on. But in smaller municipalities or in smaller cores, 200 homes can really have a very big effect. How can we guarantee that the city council can still do more in such an important project than just give a statement of no reservations? How can a city council have more to say about that? We cannot guarantee that it would not have a great effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u52	Now I hear Mrs Van Eijs say that, when it comes to more than 200 houses, it would in her view be more significant in smaller municipalities. That is of course interesting, because perhaps we can find a way to look at it in the same way. That is true, because in smaller municipalities these numbers count more heavily. On the other hand, not all municipalities in the Netherlands are small municipalities. For a very large number of municipalities 500 does not have to be substantial. So maybe you could find a solution in that. Mrs Van Eijs mentioned a percentage. Indeed, it is often about less than 200 homes. I see a lot of such projects in these smaller municipalities, too. And we're not talking about 200 at all, we're talking about 45 or 60. So there's not really a problem there. But I think that in a number of projects where we are talking about larger numbers, you deprive them of the opportunity to use this project implementation decision. So a limit of around 500 seems more manageable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u53	That's interesting, but another consideration was the following. The argument in the project implementation decision was that there were not so many meetings. The Minister will undoubtedly have more knowledge of it, but with my knowledge I can imagine that there are not so many meetings in smaller municipalities, but in larger municipalities, with much more powers and tasks and so on. The frequency of meetings is therefore not an argument, I think, to be able to discuss a large-scale project I think 200 homes are still building a large-scale project. So to what extent is it really so difficult in large municipalities to have the city council meet on that if they just have a frequent meeting there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u54	The most important argument I gave is that in such a project implementing decision all permits, permissions and so on are included. So instead of being all pieces, it's now brought together in that one project implementation decision. And it is true what Mrs Van Eijs says: the large municipalities certainly have a very regular frequency of meetings. Anyway, the small municipal councils also meet with some regularity. That is certainly not the only argument. It's also about the fact that you bundle and cluster with it, and make it more insightful and easier. However, perhaps Mrs Van Eijs would still like to think about my argument to say: I actually find 200 below the lower limit of what I would like. But there may be some room between the proposal and what Mrs Van Eijs wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u55	Can I ask you one question? Did you refer to the amendment to item No. 14 from Mrs. Van Eijs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u56	I think so, but I'll have to look that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u57	Then it is useful to immediately give an appreciation, which then probably...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u58	That's right, the amendment to part No. 14. So I have actually suggested to Mrs Van Eijs that we should change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u59	And if she doesn't adjust it, then it's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u60	Then I can't be excited about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u61	Then it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u62	Yeah, then it's not recommended. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u63	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u64	I would like to put a follow-up question to the Minister in connection with this brief inter-ruption debate. In fact, I can remember that a municipality that I have just given the name of, but I think it was a municipality in the vicinity of Rotterdam has quite a task, because they are a bit in the overflow area of Rotterdam. In fact, I would like to say: can you link a small municipality to a small task? I would actually like to appeal: be careful to put that limitation back in. Because then you are going to impose restrictions again in those places where housing is badly needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u65	Mr Ronnes has just made a very good point. I didn't want to be absolute either, but I did say to Mrs Van Eijs that in a smaller municipality a project of 200 or 300 homes will have more impact than in a larger municipality. But, yes, you have them in all shades. Indeed, it also depends on the geography and proximity of an even larger municipality. So Mr Ronnes is right about that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Ronnes had a request to extend the scope of the project implementation decision from twelve to five dwellings. I actually think that's an attractive idea. Smaller housing projects could also be accelerated, so I am open to that. I thought Mrs Dik-Faber was asking for the written commitment that energy projects could benefit from the project implementation decision. Yes, it is. At AMvB, I could extend the scope of the project implementation decision to those energy projects. This could be done in the 20th tranche of the decision to implement the Crisis and Recovery Act. And it is true that the preparation of this is already being organised, in consultation with interested parties. Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u66	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u67	It's nice to hear about this from the Minister. My question was also whether the spatial integration is still sufficiently secure, because these are energy projects and we all know that they can certainly have an impact on people's environment. We have seen the situation in Drenthe, which certainly does not deserve the beauty prize, but we also see now, as sprinkles in the landscape, solar parks appear everywhere. A motion from me has been passed on that, for a solar ladder. On the one hand, therefore, I welcome the Minister's commitment to speed up renewable energy, but at the same time I would like to emphasise the importance of achieving good spatial integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u68	I am pleased that Mrs Dik-Faber is enthusiastic about the commitment. On the other hand, I think we agree with each other. It is not for nothing that we are now talking about this kind of thing in the context of the National Environment Vision and the talks about the regional environmental visions, the municipal environmental visions. There are choices to be made. So is there any attention to it? Yes. Has it been secured enough already? I am afraid to say yes to that, but I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that it must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u69	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Laan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u70	Mr President, I have a question for you first. What amendment was the Minister talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u71	I was talking about the Van Eijs amendment to No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u72	Yes, she has advised against that amendment if it is not amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u73	And the point that was discussed after that was a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u74	Yeah, I think that was just a question. Or was that included in an amendment? I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u75	No, that was a question. We'll all be right back. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u76	Luckily, I didn't miss an amendment. Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals asked whether it is true that there is no need for a statement of no further reservations for nature projects. I think there might be a misunderstanding here. Deputy States are the competent authority for Natura 2000 activities and flora and fauna activities. As soon as these activities become part of the project implementation decision, B and W will be the competent authority, but this should always be asked by the Deputy States. Deputised States remain therefore sub-qualified................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the ministerial arrangement. Indeed, the legislative proposal provides for the possibility of adding new areas and projects to existing experiments to ministerial regulation rather than to AMvB, which will save some seven months, as I said earlier. It goes without saying that all derogations from legislation and regulations must be carefully weighed and organised. The experiments are thus added to the Crisis and Recovery Act at AMvB. The Ministerial Arrangement shall assess whether a project or area to be designated fits within the framework and objective of the experiment. To date, the Chamber and the Council of State have not proposed not to add a particular area. Then there is the question put by Mr Smeulders in an amendment. Then, of course, the President asks what amendment that is. I am just trying to find out which of Mr Smeulder's amendments is concerned with this. New experiments are arranged in an AMvB and will remain so. The AMvB is presided over, is open for consultation and is reviewed by the Council of State. Frameworks are laid down in the AMvB. The States-General shall continue to be involved in the development of each experiment. Only the addition of new projects or areas to existing experiments is done by ministerial regulation. In most cases, a decision by the city council is also needed, for example when the council adopts a zoning plan with extended scope. In other words, I would not like to do so as proposed by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u77	It is about the amendment to item No. 15, I think. But that has expired because a signatory has joined, so it is no. 16 years old. So you advise, I understand, the amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u78	That's right. Mr Van Gerven actually had a similar question. I think I have answered his question with the explanation of my assessment of the amendment. This is undoubtedly not entirely satisfactory, because I think his thoughts went in the same direction as those of Mr Smeulders. Then there is the change in the criteria. The legislative proposal limits the number of criteria to be met by a sustainable innovative experiment. Two criteria must be met. Or it can contribute to sustainable development and economic structural strengthening. Or it can contribute to sustainable development and innovation. The starting point for all experiments remains that a contribution must be made to the sustainable development of the living environment. That's actually what it's about. This will clarify whether or not an experiment falls within its scope. I expect that this will enable more projects to benefit from the opportunities offered by the law. Mr Ronnes felt that construction production should not be subordinate to other interests. Of course, I agree with him that housing is now very important. I also know him as someone who's really tough on that. I also agree with Mr Ronnes that sustainable development and housing should and can go hand in hand. I believe that this criterion guarantees sustainable development. We also see in daily practice that it often goes well and that it goes hand in hand. I mentioned the Hembrug site. The properties that are being built there have a low EPC value. So they're very durable. Energy performance is high. So I don't see any contradiction in that. I don't think it would be good to make it one subordinate to another. On the contrary, we must encourage that to go hand in hand as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u79	We understand each other well in the sense that there must be a balance between the various interests and the principles and the way in which sustainability goes hand in hand with the speed of construction. We have to make sure that with extra heads we don't get the speed out of that construction. I do agree with you that it must meet the standard that we now have in mind, but we must be careful that we do not fail to do so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u80	I do think we understand each other well. Conversely, it would of course be a bit crazy not to do it sustainably now, so that in five or ten years' time we discover that we all have to do that. We're not doing the people in those homes any favors. But I think we have the same opinion on this. The question is whether Mr Kops and I share the same view, because he was quite critical of the word'sustainable'. As I just said, I'm really looking for a balance and also looking at achieving a social goal. Mrs Dik-Faber has just mentioned the example of sustainable use of space. That's also about the landscape. It is therefore more than just housing and sustainable development. That's what I'm in. That's what the proposal says. Perhaps Mr Kops will read something else in that, but that is the intention. Mrs Teunissen asked if I would also be prepared to add the Paris climate agreement as a criterion. As I said, sustainable development is now included as a definition. This is in fact very much in line with what the Brundtland Committee, for example, has said. It says: sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Or was it Mr Kops who just quoted that? I see it was Mr Kops. Apologies. But anyway, it has to do with each other, so it is actually nice to see this in the spirit of the Paris climate agreement. And that is precisely what I am doing because of the criterion of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u81	It is, of course, a good thing that this proposal contains the idea of sustainability and sustainable development, but it is, of course, a question of ensuring that every housing project that is going on is in place and that we do not go beyond the 1.5°C, as agreed in the climate agreement. Can the Minister explain why she does not opt for a more harsh criterion, such as a specific objective with which we can meet the climate agreement? Why instead choose a more vague general criterion, namely that it should be sustainable? This does not mean that we are going to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u82	In order to achieve the goals, a lot has to be done, including in the built environment. That's right. I believe that this is precisely the way to seize the opportunity to ensure, through the projects that will run through the Crisis and Recovery Act, that it goes hand in hand with sustainable development. But more is needed; I am aware of that. There is now also a situation in the decision-making process at the climate tables. I think that as a cabinet we will also come up with more proposals to implement this. But I think we are already taking an important step ahead of this law. I already argued, let it go hand in hand. That's actually exactly what we want. I would like to say to the Animal Party: wait and see what we, as a cabinet, are going to do in the context of climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u83	I'm afraid it's a little late to wait. We just need to hurry to meet our climate goals. The cabinet also needs to put a shovel on top of it. I am curious to see what the Minister is going to do to ensure that all these homes are built climate-neutrally and that soon the speed will not take precedence over the climate-neutral construction of homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u84	You know that the cabinet has already decided that new buildings will no longer have gas connections, so that new houses will be built sustainably. Because they're no longer connected to the gas. I think that's a very significant step. As I said, with this amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act, we are actually taking the time to say: we really want to link it to sustainability and energy transition. It makes perfect sense, by the way. Everyone who is working on it, not only the developers but also the people themselves, is in fact so. It is said to be connected to the natural moments. Building homes is such a natural moment. I think you have a point to make, but I also think that I am very much in favour of it. Again, more will have to be done, but you still have to be a little patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u85	A brief question, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u86	Specifically, what makes this bill secure that we are going to meet these climate objectives? What's the harsh criterion? 'Cause I don't see that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u87	The hard criterion is the link agreed in the design of the criteria. Or, in fact, the way in which the criterion has been defined shows that it is always linked to sustainable development. That wasn't the case at first, but that's how we do it now. That is a step forward. Mr. Chairman. I'll see what else I can do. Perhaps I should go straight to the comments on broadening the scope. First of all, Mr Ronnes, but also Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Laan have made comments on the addition of the Willow, the Rural Land Planning Act. An amendment has also been tabled on this subject. That is the amendment to item No. 12. There is indeed no experiment at the moment, because the Willow is not part of the Crisis and Recovery Act. So far we're probably all in agreement. My argument is that it is not necessary either, because the current system offers sufficient possibilities: the Willi combi and the Expropriation Act. The Willow also regulates that there may be expropriation to achieve a land planning plan. With LTO, the agreement has been made that the Ministry of LNV and the Ministry of BZK will support in concrete area processes and that the available instruments will be used in re-landing of greenhouse horticulture areas. I think the solution is to work together in the area process. Should that pilot show that there are still obstacles, you could see if an experiment under the Environmental Act is possible. I therefore share the view that it is necessary, as has just been said, to work in an area with greenhouse horticulture in its entirety. We'd like to help the sector with that. It also makes sense, because there too many issues come together: questions of energy, water and logistics. I told you, we'll talk to LTO about that. LNV is also involved. But what I am actually asking for is first of all to see whether the current instruments have really been used, fully in conjunction, or not. It is not forbidden to re-locate with glass houses, but I think it goes too far to impose it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u88	That also means that your appreciation of the amendment to item No. 12...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u89	... is "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u90	I regret that the Minister does not see the importance of this amendment to achieve speed, including in the restructuring of the greenhouses that are actually in the way and could be given room in another place. You can see that there are projects that are actually fixed on a very small part. The moment you walk through an expropriation journey, you're years away. Doesn't the Minister see that interest? Why should this space not be used in the Crisis and Recovery Act to gain experience with this medicine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u91	I see the importance, but I think it can still be done using the current instruments. I think there's still opportunities. So it is actually too soon for me to move on to what Mr Ronnes and others are proposing. I would prefer to see, and of course I would ask the Members who have proposed this, that I still have the opportunity to work together with those involved, with LTO, Glasspower, LNV, entrepreneurs, provinces and municipalities and really see what can be done within the voluntary re-landing of buildings. Of course, there is also a point of principle. It's not just about land. It's really about a building that's on the ground. Makes it a little more complicated, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u92	A large part of all the groups mentioned by the Minister have also approached us and would like to see a solution to the problem that they share with us in this way. I wonder what's gonna come out of that. I still don't understand the Minister's consideration of not doing this now. She says there are other possibilities. There are going to be other amendments which I expect the Minister to give a ruling on. There are other ways to deal with that. I would therefore expect the Minister to implement the line of reasoning which she is now applying to rejecting this amendment with other amendments which will soon be passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u93	I think I know what amendment Mrs Laan is referring to, but I'm sure I'll hear from her whether or not she's expecting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u94	I am positive about this amendment, which does not include my name. The Minister says there are sufficient instruments. I can already hear from practice that there is indeed a single person who can frustrate the process, which may make this a desirable route. My question to the Minister is: does she object to it in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u95	Mrs Dik-Faber has listened very carefully, because I have, of course, argued above all that I think there is still room to do better just within the current instruments. "Objection" is then the greatest word, but there is indeed a fundamental consideration underneath. As I said, it is also a little more complicated, because it is not just about land and land, but also about land on which buildings stand. That'll make it a little more complicated. That is also what I am thinking of in principle. But I would say it is purely practical: I still see opportunities to do it within the framework of the current instruments. If that were to be disappointing, even though I think it could, I would be prepared to discuss this again. So a principled thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u96	Well, well, well. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u97	Let's not play word games. I'm sure the Minister doesn't want you to, and I don't want you to. However, I do now find myself getting signals from practice that the existing instruments are stuck. Expropriation is a complicated long-term process and therefore one owner in an area that needs restructuring can frustrate the whole process endlessly. I assume that the Minister will hear these signals, and she will say: look at the existing instruments for a moment. It does so, when it is said that we need more than the existing instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u98	I think it's a repeat. Anyway, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u99	I understand. Mrs Dik-Faber and others are getting signals from parties who have been stuck in concrete cases. That will undoubtedly be the case; of course I am getting these signals. But still, if we send out the signal that it has to be done again in this way, then that can move things. I am waiting, of course, because the Chamber decides, but I would prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u100	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u101	Then I come to an amendment to the Gas Act. I thought that was also a joint amendment by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs. This, too, is not in fact covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act, and that means that there can be no deviation from it now. You may know that the Energy Act 1.0 is being worked on in the near future. That's what the Gas Act says. Mr Wiebes intends to inform the Chamber about this in the course of next year and to send the Chamber that amendment. It is being worked on and consideration is also being given to removing obstacles for municipalities. But I am not against this amendment. It would mean adding the Gas Act to the Crisis and Recovery Act. If there is an experiment, we have to consider whether it is covered by the amended Crisis and Recovery Act or whether it can already be implemented under the Energy Act 1.0. I would say that, as far as I am concerned. In other words, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u102	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 8 and that gets judgment Chamber. Mrs Laan has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u103	First of all, I am getting signals that this motion would not get judgment Chamber from the Ministry of EZK. I am curious to see to what extent the Minister is taking this with him. Secondly, I have the question to the Minister whether she acknowledges that agreements have been made to discuss these far-reaching amendments and motions only when the climate law and the outcome of the tables are about to reach us. That is the second question. The third question is this. If it were to follow its line consistently with regard to the assessment of the amendment that has just been tabled, it would now have to come to the fore. So why does the Minister deviate from her own reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u104	On that last point, I would like to say to Mrs Laan that it really is not. I have just said, challenged by Mrs Dik-Faber, that, in the case of the amendment we have just spoken about, this is a matter of principle. That is not the case here. Here it's actually purely practical. That reasoning leads me to say in this case: this could be done; I am not against it. The cabinet always speaks with one voice, as Mrs Laan knows. So this is a statement I make on behalf of the cabinet, and therefore also on behalf of Mr Wiebes. As I said to the Animal Party about the climate tables, they are still in full swing, including the full involvement of the Cabinet and the administrators who have those parts in their portfolio. There will be much more, but that does not have to stop us from doing a number of things already. I have just said that I believe that this Crisis and Recovery Act also contributes to ensuring sustainable new construction. I think that is very important and that this does not have to wait for the issues that will undoubtedly result from the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u105	Let me ask the Minister about the scope of this amendment. Would it not be wiser to indicate a limit to what extent this exception can be applied, such as in the pilot areas designated by the Ministry? Does the Minister agree with me that you should limit it to those areas where you're really at a border right now, that you can't go any further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u106	This whole bill is, of course, contained, you might say, so an extension to this law offers opportunities, but they are certainly not infinite. However, I would like to take a closer look at what Mr Ronnes is saying and whether this should lead to additions on my part. I will add that in second term. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last category, the category others. There's a little pile left over there. The first question I would like to address is that of Mr Ronnes. Will the Minister be more flexible in dealing with requests from municipalities to participate in the experiment on local and regional projects of national significance? To date, three municipalities have made a request to be added to this experiment and all have been immediately honoured. I'm happy to be a part of that. Adding areas and projects to the experiment through a ministerial arrangement also applies to this experiment. This can also save us seven months. Mrs Laan asked if I could deal more flexibly with the criterion... Sorry, that's the same question. Only she added something to that, because she said that all housing does meet this criterion. I agree with her that the realisation of sufficient housing opportunities is absolutely of national importance. I think that's what we're doing with each other. All the municipalities that want to make use of this experiment, especially for housing, I would therefore like to invite them to report, because I would like to add it. So I actually agree with Mrs Laan's point and hope that this leads to notifications. She also asked if I could see whether the possibilities of the Crisis and Recovery Act are sufficiently widely known. I think the law is really out there. Of course, he has been there for a while and we also see in the ongoing projects that there are more than 125 municipalities working on it, that 250 experiments are running. Both the VNG and the BZK provide a lot of information on the application of the Crisis and Recovery Act. If Mrs Laan does have concrete indications that this is not the case, I would like to hear it, but I do not have that indication of the figures and interest on my own. As a result, she asked if we could proactively approach provinces and municipalities to request experiments. Well, ministry officials are actually working on a daily basis to visit municipalities and provinces and bring the opportunities to their attention. That's what conferences are about and there's a progress report every year. This too is a question of confronting the relevant parties in daily practice, in a positive sense. That is a valid point, but that is actually happening on a daily basis. Mrs Dik-Faber, as well as others, paid attention to another problem, namely if you want to build and also want to see innovation in construction, then you need people to do so. I agree with everyone who said that. Innovation in the construction sector is needed and can also contribute to making more efficient use of scarce capacity in the construction sector. That is what the sector itself thinks, and it is of course primarily a responsibility of the sector, but if the cabinet and if I can play a facilitating role in it, then of course we are happy to do so. From that role, I am also involved in the building agenda. So I can also see that this sector is doing well. The Ministry of Education also plays a role in the building agenda. This can also help to adapt education programmes, and the aim is to contribute to capacity, knowledge and innovation, and this in the context of sustainability. During that same work visit in Zoetermeer, which was also very nice, mboRhineland was present and a number of market players told how, in cooperation with the MBO, they ensure that instead of the new employees actually need to be trained in the company for two years, they combine the training and the work and that with that people can be used much faster. Innovation in construction, there is still a world to be won. Mr Kops had a number of points, but I have already dealt with some of them. He was talking about the priceless energy transition. What can I say? It is also about energy transition, but it is mainly about housing. It is mainly about building new homes that, by definition, contribute to that energy transition if they are built sustainably. So, in my view, it makes a contribution to that. Then a bit of a strange duck in the bite, but I would like to answer Mr Van Gerven's question as to whether the current housing shortage is caused by political choices. The current housing shortage has been caused by a severe economic crisis. It had all kinds of causes, like a financial crisis. On balance, we have seen that the recession has resulted in a massive decline in construction. This has all kinds of consequences, including the departure of all those construction workers whom Mr Van Gerven rightly pointed out. This means that we are now looking at a catch-up and we also need those people, who have flowed out to a very large extent. Some of them have retired and some of them have changed jobs. I'll actually come back to the training program. It is very important to interest young people in this work. We can now see that housing is increasing again every year, but we are still lagging behind for a while. We therefore need to achieve a high level of housing in order to make up for the backlogs that were incurred at that time. Mrs Teunissen asked what I mean by the procedural agreements on the Nature Protection Act, but I have already dealt with them. I apologize. However, she did have another question, namely whether I am prepared to limit the derogations in time to 1 January 2021. The Environment Act provides that the Crisis and Recovery Act shall be repealed with the entry into force of the Environment Act. Existing experiments are, of course, granted a transitional right and the operation of all experiments is limited to a maximum of time. The possibilities of derogation are therefore not unlimited. The maximum duration varies from one experiment to another, and I do not think it is logical or desirable to limit the duration of the experiments in progress. The Crisis and Recovery Act therefore comes to an end as a law at the time the Environment Act comes into effect. Let me see if there were a lot of other points. There was another question from Mr Van Gerven about ICT in municipalities. I can imagine he's worried about that. When it comes to this law and also about the Introduction Act Environment Act, we are fully engaged in developing the Digital System, among other things. The municipalities are closely involved in this. This is precisely where everything is aimed at ensuring that a problem does not arise on the part of IT, because we want to have the Digital System in place before the law enters into force in its entirety. Finally, a final question from Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. She asked about the exception on national roads with regard to the setting of air quality requirements. It is true that an exception has been introduced to prevent a municipality from introducing stricter air quality requirements around a national road, thus preventing traffic flow. With this exception, the government has sought to clarify this in advance, but it is not intended to impose less stringent requirements on national roads. That is not possible, and European rules stand in the way of that. So the Empire just has to meet the standards of air quality. Mr. Chairman. Let me see if I have already dealt with all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u107	In my opinion, three have not yet been dealt with, namely the amendments to the documents. 13, 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u108	The amendment in part No. 13 belongs to Mrs Van Eijs. However, I have addressed the issue of B and W versus the city council in detail. From my explanatory statement, I think you have just deduced that I want to discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u109	The amendment in part No. 13, by Mrs Van Eijs, is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u110	The amendment in part No. 17 is from Mr Van Gerven and Mr Smeulders and sees the same thing, namely the city council versus B and W. The same argument applies to this amendment. In my view, the power of the city council is not restricted. So I would also advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u111	The amendment in part No. 17, by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Smeulders, is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u112	And the amendment to item No. I've had 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u113	I'm gonna take a look at my trusted staff. Has there been any appreciation of the amendment to item No. 18? Not according to our records yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u114	Perhaps I did not mention the amendment, but on the subject I said: Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u115	The amendment in part No. 18, by Mr Ronnes c.s. Get judgment, Room. Thank you. I'll take a look at the members. Have all the questions been answered? That seems to be the case. Is there a need for a second term? Yes, that is the case. I shall give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Ronnes of the CDA, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u116	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the letter of 22 October 2018, in which she responded to the article in the Dutch Legal Journal on constitutional landslides in environmental law. This discussion about the role of the council versus the role of the college is well addressed, the subject we have also discussed this evening. I welcome the Minister's clear reply in this letter. It states that the role of the Board vis-à-vis the College of B and W simply does not change. I must say that I found the Minister's reply so clear that I would advise my colleagues to consult the Minister's letter of 22 October 2018, because I think that is what it says very clearly. I would still like the Minister's reaction to the suggestion from the building world to deal with objections who are endlessly litigated, purely out of self-interest. Does the Minister know those signals? Should we take these signals seriously? The CDA doesn't want to deny anyone his right to object, but notorious objectors who sue for trial frustrate far too much. How do we deal with that in the future? And does the Minister see any possibilities here? Thank you for the support for the amendment on projects starting from five houses. I think this is really going to help in many villages, especially the smaller villages. Unfortunately, the Minister does not support the Willow amendment. I hope that I can count on the support of my colleagues here in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u117	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks, but I see that he wants to waive his second term. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u118	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I would just like to take one more point back, namely the energy projects designated as projects of social value. The Minister said: I too attach great importance to careful spatial integration and I would like to add the participation of local residents. I would like to hear from the Minister how she intends to implement this. And how can the Chamber be kept informed of this? I am pleased that the amendment has been given Chamber's judgement by the Minister. I also hope for support from this Chamber. Some suggestions have been made. I certainly want to look into that in order to achieve maximum support in this Chamber. But the Minister is already positive and I am very happy about that. I'd like to make one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the University of Groningen and Building Netherlands shows that construction focuses mainly on price competition and lacks innovations;]] [[Whereas innovation and industrialisation are indispensable to the desired and necessary pace of sustainability in the built environment;]] [[Whereas cost savings and scaling-up are necessary to make sustainable (construction) successful, where industrialisation and scaling-up can be enhanced by seeking the analogy with scaling-up of wind at sea;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to promote innovation and industrialisation on the supply side, so that housing and buildings can be scaled up and made cheaper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35013-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u120	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Laan-Selschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u121	Mr President, thank you. A short second term, in which I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. We can conclude that the more people have a home, the more people feel at home in this country and that in this country we must also take into account the things we organize here. If we adopt amendments which make it difficult for individual residents to oppose the government, this has never been the intention of the Crisis and Restoration moment as far as the VVD is concerned, in order to worsen the support for the whole climate situation that we have. We would be very sorry to hear that. We would like to hear from the Minister in the second term how that amendment, which she has just given Chamber judgment, does not come back as a boomerang, which does not excite people in this country about climate change but makes them critical of climate change. We want to live and encourage people. We'd like to hear how you can find a middle ground in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u122	Excuse me, there is another interruption by Mrs Dik-Faber about your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u123	I still have a question, because I am really standing here with my ears blazing. We are facing an enormous task. In the very short term, the climate tables will come up with proposals on how to shape the transition, but we agree on one thing: the Netherlands will go off the Groningen gas. Now we've given municipalities the direction to get started with that. This amendment regulates it. It's not in the way of the climate tables. It precisely supports the process that is being designed at the climate tables. The climate tables are coming up with concrete measures. That is what we are going to expect from how we can organise that support base and how everyone in the Netherlands will be able to pay for that transition. So I think that the VVD Group is now putting things in the amendment that this amendment is not about at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u124	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u125	My question is: will Mrs Laan look at the amendment again? Because all kinds of paths are now being mixed up. She reads more in the amendment than on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u126	I think Mrs Dik-Faber's speech sums up exactly where we have the objection. You say the results of the table are coming up. That's right. Things are gonna go through each other. And why is that? Because you are already coming up with amendments to laws that you could have submitted next year, if we have the clarity and insights about everything that has come out of the climate table. But you're sorting ahead now. We just want it to happen in order, so everyone knows what's going on. We want this whole country to be enthusiastic about a change in our climate management. That's got to come from people. That's what people need to feel. We cannot and should not enforce this here in The Hague in this way, by means of an amendment to a law which was not originally intended to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u127	Mrs Dik-Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u128	Nothing gets mixed up here and nothing is forced. The only thing that the amendment does is to ensure that municipalities, if they go off the gas, also have the tools to actually organise it. We have already made these agreements with each other, so give municipalities the opportunity to do it. Everything else comes next week, or as soon as possible, with the outcome of the climate tables. So let's please name things as they are and not make them more complex, because I find that really complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u129	Thank you. Do you still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u130	Yes. You say it yourself: everything else, everything else. You even say it twice. Then we could have dealt with this, too, and we wouldn't have had to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u131	Thank you. I do not think you are getting out of it, but there is another interruption by Mr Smeulders, I think, about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u132	Yeah, yeah, about the same thing. I thought "I'm gonna let it go," but I can't let it go. Does Mrs Laan van de VVD find it strange that the negotiations at the climate tables are as difficult as politically opposed? 'Cause that's what you're doing now. There is simply a very real proposal, at the request of many municipalities, by two of the four coalition parties. And the VVD and also the CDA say: ho, that can't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u133	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u134	I have already put it to him: do you think it is strange that these negotiations are going to be so difficult as you, as a politician, every time an initiative comes from society to tackle climate change and sustainable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u135	I'm not sitting at those tables, so I can't say anything about that. If you say "you as a politician" and I am, I think that is a huge compliment, but I cannot take that on my shoulders. You are, too, we are all, all 150 and many other related articles. I don't see how these conversations are going to be difficult. That it's about a major subject, I realize very well. It's about a lot of people in this country who are going to have to deal and wheel with their effects. I'd like to see that. Those climate tables will come to us and then we will go to the clinch on behalf of all those Dutch people. I look forward to having that debate with you to make the Netherlands beautiful and beautiful but also affordable for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u136	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u137	I am very much looking forward to that debate, but I am a little surprised by Mrs Laan's reply. I immediately believe that she is not sitting at that table personally, but would like to deny Mrs Laan that talks are now taking place through party political lines, the cockpit consultation or what is it all called these days? What is acceptable and unacceptable as a result of these tables? Is it or is it not? If you say that this is the case, and I think it is because it is in all the newspapers, you, as the VVD-Second Parliamentary Group, do indeed have an influence on what is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u138	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u139	No, I don't think so either. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u140	In my opinion, we are a little off-the-top from the subject we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u141	You do have a question for Mrs. Laan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u142	Yeah, about the Crisis and Recovery Act. I'd like to have a taste with Mrs. Laan. The objective is to speed up the Crisis and Recovery Act and to allow it to take place where experiments are needed. Now it is true that we have identified pilot neighbourhoods in the field of energy transition. We would feel that the amendment should be limited and that there should be a number of preconditions. For example, you're only looking at the pilots or you're looking for a little more broadening, but really for the areas where a Crisis and Recovery Act is needed to do those experiments. Would you be able to live with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u143	That would be consistent and I am always very much in favour of it, so yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u144	That was just a question to the Minister which she would come back to in the second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. I would nevertheless like to touch on the issue of the project implementation decision and the role of the Council in that regard. The Minister has indicated that the influence of the council will not deteriorate. This decision allows all authorisations for a particular project to be granted. This also allows for derogations from a zoning plan, even for the construction of a large new building area of 2,000 homes. Now the declaration of no suspicion is being applied at this time for relatively small deviations from the zoning plan, but the Minister thus extends it to large new buildings. Having no thought is quite another thing than having a power. The board shall have no power unless it indicates that it has no reservations. The board is no longer on the buttons. The public has much less say. A zoning plan becomes a wash nose, because about destination, construction height, construction compartment, type of housing and energy performance the board can no longer decide and adjust. My question to the Minister is: how can she then consider that the influence of the city council is not deteriorating and that the role is not changing? Mr. Chairman. I'm still curious about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u146	Thank you. Mr Kops waives his second term. Mr Van Gerven also waived his second term. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van Eijs. It shall make use of its second term and shall speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the motion tabled by my colleague Mr Dik-Faber on my behalf. I think it is very important to ensure more innovation in construction. That's what it takes. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Minister is working on the national building agenda. That is very important, because today we are discussing the Crisis and Recovery Act to speed up construction by means of more hands and better and more sustainable techniques and to make it cheaper and circular. I am also in favour of the 'Court of Justice' ruling by the Minister on the amendment to item No. 8, about gas-free neighborhoods. Unfortunately, it has not been able to give that same opinion on the amendment to item No. 13, on the structural vision. I think it is very important that the council stays in position. I understand that the Minister says that this is not how she came up with it, but I hope that the rest of the Chamber will take a closer look at it. The Minister has in the amendment to item No. 14 that it would like us to raise the upper limit to 500. I would like to think about this, because I think it is a good idea to take up the current possibilities, as has just been pointed out. Even now, the board may decide to mandate a number of decisions to the college. So it's not like the board has to work for every wiper now. For D66, therefore, housing accelerates together with sustainable, resilient developments, so that we can enjoy housing for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u148	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about five minutes to answer the questions. I'm suspending the meeting until about 10:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u149	I would ask Members to take their place again, because the Minister is ready to answer a few more questions, to give a motion of appreciation and to come back to the amendment on item No. Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are indeed a few more questions. Firstly, Mr Ronnes' question, who said that he heard a lot about endless litigation. I just repeated his words, but you could also say that unnecessary procedures should be avoided. That is, I think, something that we often say in broad terms: we need to reduce the legalisation of society. That starts with the government. You shouldn't really blame people, but also just look critically at the government. Mr Dekker has also sent a letter to the Chamber. We actually want governments to have much more contact with people, including informally. This is intended to prevent people from resorting to the instrument of the legal procedure. That's about the appropriate contact program with the government. This can also very well be applied to the granting of licences. The cabinet is therefore also committed to further national government-wide implementation of appropriate contact. That's one way to do this. I agree with Mr Ronnes that it is certainly happening. That can of course be incredibly annoying for some parties in such a process. At the same time, I say to Mr Ronnes that people have certain rights. Of course, we don't want to deny them. We do not want it to be used unnecessarily and improperly. I would not like to create an additional arrangement for this now, but I do recognise the point made by Mr Ronnes. I would also like to come back to the amendment under the heading Willow, because it was a very detailed one in the first period. Mr Ronnes has just regretted that I did not embrace the amendment. I would like to make one last point of principle, which Mrs Dik-Faber also asked for. It's about ownership. That is a very important right in our rule of law. Owners must be properly protected in the event that there is a need to deprive them of their property. There is currently no regulation establishing that an owner receives an equal building after exchange. That is, of course, a point. An expropriation is an instrument with many guarantees. I said just now: I would still like to have the opportunity, within the existing instruments, to see what can be done. It is possible to combine the Willow and the Expropriation Act. There is no experience yet of expropriation in re-landing of greenhouse horticulture areas. I think it would be good to get that kind of experience first. It is a slightly more detailed argument than I have just made, but I therefore stick to my argument that it should be done first and that we would then be able to conclude whether this might not be a sufficient outcome at the end of the journey. Then I could come back to your Chamber and we could discuss another instrument. So I stand by my judgment, but I hope that I have taken the Chamber a little more into account in the objections I see. Then I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's question on spatial integration. She said something about this in the first place. I responded with the comment about the National Environment Vision and the plans that will follow from it. Just as specific: the project implementation decision can only be adopted if there is good spatial integration. That's what's in there. The project implementation decision shall be subject to the same requirements as an environmental permit, which shall include such requirements. So we agree on that point. Then there is the debate between a number of Members on the amendment to the Gas Act. To bring it down to the proportions it refers to, which Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned: the moment when an experiment is notified is the time to look at the precise design, which Mr Ronnes also asked for. Of course, the stakeholders and the municipalities must also be properly involved. The AMvB in which such an experiment is arranged is put forward here and there is also internet consultation, so there is some kind of containment in the process, I would like to say to Mr Ronnes. The experiment is notified, there will be an AMvB and that framework, as far as it is necessary. It needs to be tailored to concrete projects. Perhaps that can reassure Mr Ronnes, and hopefully Mrs Laan, of course. Then I have a question from Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. She came back to the role of the city council. She was wondering if that wasn't a wash nose, like she said. It really isn't. I really think the role of the city council is important. In case of major deviations there is an environmental permit and therefore a statement of no objection from the board. This also happens in daily practice. In current practice, a city council with a declaration of no objection is involved in the environmental permit and the colleges are competent. We don't think that's a democratic deficit. That works very well in practice. Municipal councils can do well with this, so I would like to say that we are doing more than enough justice to democratic control in municipal councils here too. The last point on my part concerns the motion tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber on item No. 19. It looks at innovation, sustainability and scaling up. I see a link here with what is going on here, but also with the ambitions of the cabinet regarding climate, innovation in construction and scaling-up. In other words, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u151	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-17.u152	Voting on the amendments tabled and one motion will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
