ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr Verhoeven's question on behalf of D66 on the message that thousands of Hungarians are arguing against Orbán is now on the agenda. The question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, whom I welcome. It will replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The European Union is a beacon of peace, security and prosperity, in which human rights are protected and in which we have a free press, independent judges and academic freedom. Member States and their national parliaments have committed themselves to European rules for a reason, precisely in order to guarantee peace and security. We've been able to do that for 70 years, and we have to keep it that way. This can be done, but Member States must continue to comply with their own rules. The EU protects our fundamental values, such as the rule of law and human rights, within Europe. If that is to go wrong, then European Member States must also act among themselves, and that does not seem to be happening now. I'm very worried about Hungary. It cannot and must not be the case that, on the basis of a majority in Parliament, human rights are being removed. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch MEP Judith Sargentini has received a report that does not lie. The Article 7 procedure, the procedure established for situations where Member States violate EU values, should be initiated against Hungary. That's what that report says. And now that the European Parliament has done its job, the Member States are making their move. Europe simply needs to take action and support the people of Hungary, but it is not happening. The report was adopted in September and nothing has actually happened to it. I find that embarrassing. The EU as a protector of human rights must at least control its own Member States. That is why I have two questions for the Minister. One. What's taking so long? And two. Sargentini's report was adopted in September; I told you so. What has the Netherlands done so far to ensure that Orbán is brought to order in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	Madam President, thank you very much. I would first of all like to say what has, of course, been made clear very often in other forums by my colleague Mr Blok of Foreign Affairs: the Netherlands shares all the concerns in the area of the rule of law, democracy and human rights in Hungary. From Sargentini's report, of course, there is a very worrying picture. The Union values, as laid down in the Treaty, are unnegotiable. Now the Article 7 procedure, which was initiated on the basis of Sargentini's report, is a very heavy procedure. It's hardly ever deployed, as this Chamber knows. We want, of course, to apply the appropriate haste. It is also a matter of starting the procedure, but a majority of Member States are needed to actually move on to the next stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	We are calling for preparations for the first hearing to begin with in all contacts, particularly Mr Blok, but also Prime Minister Rutte. We go along with like-minded Member States within the European Union, but honesty commands me to say that we are not yet out of it. We are now waiting for the next step, which will have to be taken by the Presidency, but we, as the Netherlands, will continue to advance in all fora within the European Union to ensure that the hearing will start, which will really take shape the Article 7 procedure. I would like to comment on the second part of Mr Verhoeven's question, although it may have been implicit in my answer. We can't go any faster than the procedure. An appropriate procedure requires that we do not anticipate any conclusions based on the Sargentini report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	I understand the latter. I am pleased that the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, stresses the seriousness of the situation in Hungary. We had a debate with Prime Minister Rutte last week. At that time, too, there was a serious response to questions from me about the situation with the University of Budapest, which is now being chased away to Vienna. So I know. I know the Cabinet is paying attention to this, but people in Budapest have been on the streets for days because they're tired of it. Now again by another law to make people work 400 hours overtime. For many years now, the Hungarian Prime Minister has been plotting the rule of law by having judges appoint politically, by driving away universities, by making opposition newspapers disappear, so that they can no longer express control and criticism of the government, even by making it illegal to help refugees, not to mention constantly accusing Soros in an anti-Semitic way. So once again: yes, I am glad that the Minister says that everything is being done by the Netherlands, but I must say that we have heard this more often. The Minister himself says a little bit: alliances are being formed to get movement in the matter. I think that's very good, but why isn't it working? Why do we not succeed in ensuring, in such a clear situation with an alliance, that this progress is made quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	I do not know whether the reason why the Netherlands does not succeed lies in the fact that the Netherlands does not succeed. We're setting it up. It is more a question of asking a number of Member States who may not want to go as fast as the Netherlands. We're clearly front-runners in this. There's a broader weighting. I believe that everyone agrees on the state of care and care regarding the rule of law in Hungary. You also look at the Freedom House rankings or all kinds of other rankings. That is where Hungary has really fallen down when it comes to the rule of law in all the examples mentioned by Mr Verhoeven. A number of Member States agree with the Dutch position, but we are not yet ready to do so. I cannot name the Member States: we can say: and now we are out. We do not yet have the critical mass required. This is not the case in the Netherlands, but at the same time the Netherlands cannot supply all the other Member States, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, but this isn't a theoretical discussion. I know the Minister feels the same way. This is really about journalists being silenced. This is about NGOs that can't do their job anymore. This is about scientists who can't do their job anymore. This is about judges being appointed politically. Then I find it difficult for a minister of this cabinet to say on the one hand that we, like the Netherlands, are the frontrunners and that we want to be one of the triggers or drivers of this so important report to improve the situation and show Hungary that we are serious and on the other hand that there are words like critical mass, countries that do not know it at all, the hearing that has not yet come near. Then I think the Minister should say that the Netherlands is going to make a serious effort in the European Council and put more pressure on it. So I ask the Minister to make this a priority on behalf of the cabinet and to put real pressure on countries that do not want to do so. I know that Romania is the next President and I also know that Orbán's party is a member of the European People's Party. For example, there will be many other reasons not to do everything in the highest gear, but it seems to be going into the lowest gear now. I don't think that's enough. So I would like from the cabinet more than just the analysis that it's tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	I would regret the conclusion that there is a lack of Dutch commitment. I told them we're front-runners, we're front-runners, we're talking to everyone, and we're gonna keep setting it up. It cannot be concluded that there is a lack of Dutch commitment. It's not on the lowest pie; it's on the highest pie. However, a number of Member States still need to be convinced. There's no direct link. There is no causal link between the Dutch commitment as a frontrunner and the pressure on and the expression of opinion in other Member States. So that's not because of Dutch diplomacy. It is one of the priorities, but we have not yet been able to get everyone involved. We're gonna keep on betting on that. I think we're in the same situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	To be honest, I am getting a little bit off track with regard to the Article 7 procedure. As far as I know, the adoption of the Sargentini report by a two-thirds majority in the European Parliament brought into force the Article 7 procedure. So the question is not whether we are going to enter into an Article 7 procedure, because that is what we are already doing. This means that Hungary is entitled to a reply, as the Prime Minister explained a few months ago, and if that reply is not convincing, sanctions will be imposed. Can the Minister confirm that? If that is the case, how can Member States seem to frustrate this procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	I don't have all the details about Article 7 in front of me right now. I can confirm that, of course, Hungary is entitled to a hearing, i.e. a reply, and that, on the basis of the conviction or lack of conviction, steps will follow from that hearing. Sanctions are, of course, the final stage, but we need to start that hearing first in order to go through the appropriate process. The concern now is to actually start that process. Article 7 has indeed entered into force. The hearing must take place. If there is training around that hearing, we do indeed have a fundamental problem, because then we cannot go through the procedure, so we share the concern. We are committed to starting the hearing, because then you will continue to really go through Article 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	Second question, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	However, I would like to know very precisely what the Dutch Government's commitment is, because, as far as I know, the Article 7 procedure does not provide for Member States to be able to prevent the holding of a hearing. If so, the Article 7 procedure is currently being blocked, or frustrated, if you like, by other Member States, and that is not possible. Then we can expect the cabinet to point this out to the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes, we support the preparations for the first hearing. There's no date yet. It is based on the initiated Article 7. I can promise that at the next Council meeting on 7 January, my colleague Minister Blok will, of course, again appeal to his colleagues on the importance of a proper start to the hearing and the whole procedure. Warranty I can't give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	The rule of law in other countries of the European Union is extremely important, not only for the country itself, but also for the Netherlands. We can no longer hand over suspects to Poland, because the rule of law is under pressure. The Minister has already said that the cabinet is doing its best, but we in the Chamber could also do our best. It has already been said that Mr Orbán is a member of the EPP Group, including the CDA, so perhaps the CDA could say something to get Orbán out of that political group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	Good. That was a remark to the CDA, but that is not what oral questioning is meant for. Thank you.
