ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the House's deadline for legislative proposal 35000-XIV, adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Animal Health Fund for 2019. I would like to welcome the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u2	I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the PvdD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Dutch agriculture undergoes a total transformation. The metamorphosis of the countryside is the death blow for the agricultural family farm. Every day seven farmers quit their farms, despite the fact that 40% of the European budget is still going to agriculture. Dutch agriculture is destroying farmers financially, emotionally and socially, said Dutch dairy farmers Herman and José Bongers last year in daily Trouw. It came from the bottom of their hearts. It literally drives farmers to suicide, so much so that the Minister advocated setting up a hotline for that problem. Agriculture in the Netherlands is not doing well, but nevertheless politicians continue to give ample work to agriculture, letting God's water run over God's field. On 11 July 2000, almost twenty years ago, NRC wrote: "Agriculture in the Netherlands must look completely different in ten years' time." After all these years, do you think it'll finally happen? The big breakthrough is within reach. The Ministry is ready, the plans are written in black and white and are supported by the cabinet, the agriculture in the Netherlands will be completely different within ten years. The message was taken from the vision paper of VVD, Party of Labour and D66 on agriculture. What did they write? Indeed: within ten years it will have to be completely different. At that time, they recognised that agriculture ran counter to social, economic and environmental boundaries. In ten years, i.e. by 2010, agriculture would take full account of human and animal health and the ecosystem would fully comply with environmental legislation in force, meeting national environmental objectives, and organic farming would cover 10% of the agricultural area. In addition, livestock farming would be much smaller, with fewer animals, less environmental burden and much better animal welfare. How different is the reality of today and how different was the reality of 2010. In 2007, Minister Cees Veerman noted in his farewell that the system had completely stalled. We import animal feed, we export pigs, and the mess, the manure, we keep here. 600 million animals sacrificed each year on the altar of the economy, 80 billion kilos of manure and nature that literally languishes away as a great loser. How can it be that a problem is so widely recognised, has been recognised for so long, but it does not seem possible to resolve it? The Minister has discovered that today's reality is a lot more resilient than memories of a small-scale family business of the past. A brave observation, but the question is what possibilities the Minister sees for turning her changed perspective into adequate policies, that commitment to drastically reducing livestock, giving more space to family farms and stopping the murderous scale increase. Or does she mean that her own image was too limited in the sense that she should not focus on small scale, on land-based agriculture and on the protection of meadow birds, but should allow for large-scale agriculture under conditions? She discovered that as a farmer's daughter, she had ended up in a loft herself. In de Volkskrant, prior to the agricultural budget in the House of Representatives, she said: "I lived close to nature, we were ground bound (enough land to drive out our own manure) and there was a lot of attention for meadow birds at home. That was also my ideal picture when I started as a minister. But over time, I've come to realize that my own image was far too limited. My dogmas were shaking." Last year, when NRC called attention to the large-scale manure fraud that had long been a public secret among farmers, the Minister summoned key players in the manure processing in its ministry. She demanded that action be taken. Following the Minister's call on 15 November 2017, the manure consultancy firm Bergs Advise sent a letter with a plan of approach and the offer to use the expertise of the office. Within the limits of laws and regulations, Bergs Advice saw sufficient opportunities to solve the problems quickly. Exactly one year later, the Justice Department raided ten places, including Bergs Advise. The incredibly brutality of manure fraudsters as advisors to the minister indicates that there is a total lack of shame among people who consider animal, nature and environment as ATMs to realize their short-term interests. Despite this organised crime, which has been going on for years, the Minister continues to believe in the sector's self-regulation. Last year, in an interview on manure fraud, the Minister said that the NVWA is working hard to prevent manure fraud, but that the NVWA has more priorities. According to the Minister, the enforcement authority does what it can, but it also says: "If we do everything we can to prevent manure fraud, we will have problems in other areas." And, "We can't put a checker on every shipment. It remains the responsibility of the sector. They will therefore draw up a plan of action." And: "In the past it was first the government and then the sector. That appears to have not worked sufficiently and that is why we are doing it the other way around, so first the sector itself." My question to the Minister is: how much longer? The Minister seems to see no other option than self-regulation. That's what I meant by the quote about first the government and then the sector, and that this didn't work. The Minister promised to inform the First Chamber periodically about the progress of plans to combat manure fraud. I would very much like to invite her to share with us today the progress and, if necessary, moving insight to give extra priority to enforcement. It is quite worrying that Rob de Rijk, the national coordinating environmental prosecutor in NRC, had to call the alarm clock about the size of the livestock. It needs to shrink, because this is the only way to tackle large-scale manure fraud. The minister said in her response that she doesn't need the D.A. to know that she needs to step up enforcement. What's it gonna take? In what way will the Minister intensify supervision and enforcement? What is the time frame for this and how does it relate to its view that self-regulation would be more likely than public intervention? In 2003, the National Police Corps found that the livestock and meat sector is so intertwined with politics that researchers feared the integrity of public administration. That report was kept secret, and when it came out in 2004 via a whistleblower, the whistleblower was prosecuted. All the government's advisory bodies have already argued for a drastic reduction in livestock: the Scientific Council for Government Policy, the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure, the Planning Office for the Environment, the Central Bureau for Statistics, the Central Planning Bureau and previously the Environmental and Nature Planning Bureau and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. But all the advice is constantly in the wind. Apparently there is a dominant factor in the background that makes it undesirable to follow the advice. Can the Minister reflect on that? Why are all these opinions systematically dismissed and, in any case, do they not lead to a change in the policy that is visible in the direction of advice? This is not a matter of non-binding opinions, but of opinions which are all very urgent in nature. We know that livestock farming has a major impact on the climate problem, but in the measures to keep global warming below 1.5 C, an objective to which we have committed ourselves in Paris, agriculture hardly plays a role. My question to the Minister is why she doesn't pick up that glove. Does she share the view that wherever extranities occur, negative effects that are not reflected in the cost price of a product and are borne by society should be priced for extranities, so that the polluter pays principle could limit extranities? If the Minister is of the opinion that this should be done, I should like to ask her what specific measures it intends to take. If the Minister does not agree with us, can she explain why she believes that these exemptions should remain outside the climate debate and should be borne by society? Why is self-regulation being used, where it clearly does not work, has not worked and cannot work because self-interest is clearly gaining from the general interest? Now that the climate summit in Katowice has almost failed, and we ourselves will have to use it in a way to counter global warming, can it not be that the Netherlands, as a dirty little boy in the classroom, continues to pretend to bleed in many ways when it comes to the relationship between livestock farming and climate? How long will the Minister continue to watch the climate, nature and the environment make livestock farming more environmentally friendly, as the picture she initially had appears to have undergone drastic changes in the first year of her term of office? Can the Minister take us on board the idea that manure is not a problem but a great raw material, that greenhouse gases can be captured if you keep animals in a hermetically sealed laboratory stall for years and that giving phosphate-poor feed could reduce the phosphate problem? In short, that the sector is given every opportunity to experiment with animals which cannot live by their very nature, on non-ground livestock farms, in numbers which are in no way justified by almost all the government's advisory bodies, but which are not reduced, however necessary? Can the Minister indicate how she intends to include citizens in the idea that the climate problem is mainly on their plate and that citizens themselves should take action? There is much talk about the freedom of choice of citizens, but how free should this choice be in a country which is largely below sea level and cannot for too long withdraw from the washing water? It is sometimes said by politicians that their views do not go far beyond the next elections, but I really expect from this minister more, if only for reasons of stewardship, which I know she really stands for. This also makes it difficult to understand that the government relies on outdated calculation models about the amount of nitrogen in nature, but does not seem willing to adapt its policy accordingly. May I give the Minister as a reading tip the highly commendable article by Professor Michiel Wallis de Vries, extraordinary professor of ecology and insect protection at the University of Wageningen? It welcomes a firmer approach to the Programmed Approach Nitrogen in a way that would make the PAS compatible with the European Habitat Directive. The government cannot be confident that the reduction in nitrogen taxation on nature will continue in the future, nor that technical measures could offset the negative effects of an excess of nitrogen. In 2013, the status for all nitrogen-sensitive habitats and for 80% of nitrogen-sensitive species was assessed as moderate to very unfavourable. There is no indication whatsoever that the situation would have improved in any way since then. The plaguing of heaths and the more frequent mowing of grasslands provides only temporary relief, according to research. It is very much to be hoped that the Council of State, which will base itself not only on the wishful thinking that is now expressed by policy but on hard measurements of the measured nitrogen load and the observed state of nature, will give an opinion on 14 February. It is precisely for this minister, who has indicated that he is open to a Delta Plan for Biodiversity, that it is a great opportunity to finally give substance to a real transition to a circular agriculture that respects nature. Why is there a Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen, but no programmatic approach to nature quality? There is no reason to keep industrial agriculture out of the wind, not ecologically and not economically. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Really all the little bugs help. Finally, I would like to talk about the dramatic situation in the Oostvaardersplassen. 1.830 healthy red deer are sacrificed to failing policies. There is a complete corridor ready to the Veluwe, the River area and the German hinterland. The policy was fully assessed and monitored by an international scientific committee, but then Secretary of State Henk Bleker saw nothing and literally closed the escape route for the animals. Animals could no longer show their natural pulling behaviour. He did that against his better judgment. The Empire transferred the responsibility for the area entirely to the barely prepared province of Flevoland, so that the policy pursued and scientifically validated up to then was completely destroyed. The surrounding forest areas, which could have sheltered the animals, were designated to establish parking spaces, holiday homes, pancake houses or farms. The corridor remained unused and the animals were literally shot in their hopeless suffering by Pieter van Geel, who has no specific expertise in the field of fauna policy or nature management, but who, in a Willy Alfredo-like constellation, took his judgment after hearing contradictory experts. The verdict: 1,830 healthy red deer were allowed to be shot, despite the fact that there was no actual cause for this. Despite the fact that this would not lead to any sustainable solution. Despite the fact that it would literally destroy not only family associations within the longest and strongest deer population in Europe. And despite the fact that 50% of the employees of State Forest Management did not want to take responsibility for the wildlife policy on the ground and asked for transfer for conscientious objection. The massacre that is taking place at the moment must not be seen. The Dutch Association of Journalists feels ambushed by the area and flight ban in and above the Oostvaardersplassen. Any democratic control of an out of control policy is frustrated. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. Can he indicate at whose request the flight ban has been imposed and how it relates to fundamental press rights? Can the Minister indicate how she assesses that young animals are being shot in front of their mother and that animals are being totally panicked by such acts? Can the Minister indicate how she assesses it that the dam that was shot yesterday fled, because apparently it wasn't hit properly, and had to die in nature? Can the Minister indicate how expert the shooters have been given this incident? If 50% of forest rangers who are familiar with the behaviour and composition of the herd and with the establishment of the area have conscientious concerns and abort, it is difficult to see that their replacements could carry out such a massive discharge painlessly. Staatsbosbeheer employees indicate that they will be helped by the staff of the Royal Hunting Department. Can the Minister confirm this? And if so, does she think that the subsidy for the Royal Hunting Department offers room to shoot animals in other areas as well? Can the Minister indicate how she believes that protected animals such as the sea eagle, which nests in the area, should be able to remain free from disturbance? Is it prepared to intensify monitoring and enforcement of such disruption, and is it considering taking the management of the area back to the state level in order to prevent dramas such as these occurring in the future? Is the Minister prepared to revise the decision of Secretary of State Bleker to lock the red deer behind the gates of the Oostvaardersplassen by still using the corridor to the Veluwe, which is ready? If not, who does the Minister think is responsible for the tragedy that is taking place at the moment? The Oostvaardersplassen were created under the responsibility of the Empire and it would be too easy to wash hands now in innocence. Mr. Chairman. It would never have been the choice of the Party for Animals to deport animals into a nature reserve where those animals would not have settled spontaneously. But now that the animals are there, we will have to respect their legally recognised intrinsic value. You cannot recognize the intrinsic value of an animal, i.e. its value independently of its usefulness to man, and at the same time rob any animal that gets in the way of life as a human being. Can the Minister reflect on that? Can it do so in relation to the two million animals that are taken from life every year, purely for the pleasure of a small number of hunters? How does the Minister judge it for the fun of killing animals, without having any social benefit or need for society? Is the Minister prepared to rethink the hunting list of the five species of wood pigeon, wild duck, hare, pheasant and rabbit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Prior to the 2012 Dutch Parliamentary Elections, the Groene Keieswijzer found that in addition to the Animal Party, the VVD, the CDA, the Labour Party, the SP, D66, GroenLinks and the Christian Union also reject the pleasure hunt. The PVV did not participate in the Groene Kieswijzer, but has already indicated on previous occasions to reject the pleasure yacht. If that electoral promise is kept, all the current coalition parties have promised the electorate to do so, then those five species will henceforth be bulletproof instead of outlaw. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she's willing to make this adjustment to the hunting list. I'm considering a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to address two issues: first circular agriculture and the climate targets, and then the more specific problem of nitrogen emissions from animal manure. Within the framework of the 2019 LNV budget, the Minister sent us her vision of the future, entitled "Agriculture, nature and food: valuable and connected. The Netherlands as a frontrunner in circular agriculture." My group sees this view as an important intention. What is still missing are operationally measurable objectives which make policy realisation measurable. The terms 'lat' and 'checking' on page 37 have been chosen unfortunately, and I ask the Minister when the Chamber will receive a follow-up to its vision of operationally measurable objectives. The problem is that the Minister does not link circular agriculture, or not yet, to regional self-sufficiency. For example, on page 31, it says: "The change to circular agriculture will require and provoke many innovations. This will boost the agro-innovation in the Netherlands that will benefit our position on the world market." It seems to me this is speaking in the past tense. The achievement of the climate targets and the ultimate goal of 0% global warming are, already three years after Paris, further and further away, according to recent reports, for example the Dutch report on the "Needlekelijke Maatschappij Climate agreement" of November. Achieving the targets requires more rigorous measures than currently envisaged. The transport of international trade causes 28% of global C0 emissions. So we're going to have to stop dragging products across the planet. This is a curse for the current Dutch export-oriented parts of the agricultural sector, but ultimately a stop is inevitable. I know that this is the long term, but this long term requires continuous short-term action. What are the Minister's planned short-term measures in this area? And is the Minister now going to tell the sector that exports are a dead end, so that those concerned can take them into account in the case of planned investments? As regards effective short-term measures, the Council advises on the living environment and infrastructure to increase VAT on animal products and to reduce it on plant products. The Report Necessary Policy Climate Agreement also advises this and earlier the WRR also did this. Meat consumption has a relatively high carbon footprint. Senator Koffeman's been pointing this out since 2007. The Minister writes in her response to the Rli report that she does not accept this opinion because of the VAT arrangements in the government agreement. But after the conclusion of a coalition agreement, does this cabinet consider thinking? With new information and advice, the Minister can try to convince her colleagues and the coalition. Does she promise to make an effort to this effect soon and to inform the Court of Justice about it? I will briefly discuss a second and more specific issue: the emission of nitrogen from animal manure and the enforcement of the manure rules. This concerns a case on which a reasonable quantity of figures is available. This seems to be less the case, for example, for animal abuse in livestock farming, which is more serious than the case of manure. According to recent CBS figures, total nitrogen emissions from manure have increased by 11% over the last five years. Is the Minister aware of whether the CBS figures are based on reports from the sector itself? I am shocked by the LNV report Enhanced Enforcement Strategy Manure of September 2018. Selected sample information by NVWA in 2017 shows that 47% of the farms do not sufficiently comply with the manure rules. This concerns checks at around 8% of holdings. The sanctions imposed consider the sector "to be "calculated because the chances of getting caught are low." The explanatory statement to the budget states that the NVWA as a supervisor assumes trust, but acts firmly when that trust is betrayed. How does the Minister reconcile the robustness of the action, in particular the level of fines, with the offences? By what date will the fines be greatly increased? Or does she agree with the national environmental officer of the Public Prosecutor's Office that the rules are in fact not enforceable and that less manure is only accessible by reducing livestock? The 47% mentioned concerns a select sample. I repeat what I already suggested to the Minister in an oral consultation. In my view, the beneficial part of the sector is entitled to the fact that the NVWA also controls by means of a random sample, for example in 1,000 companies, which is a quarter of the controlled companies. I'd like this commitment from the Minister. Mr President, that concludes me. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. Your text on paper is again equipped with a beautiful walnut machine. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of this year, the Health Council issued the advice Health benefits through cleaner air. The Council noted that air pollution makes an important contribution to disease and mortality. Exposure to particulate matter alone accounts for about 4% of the disease burden in the Netherlands. After smoking, air pollution is one of the most important risk factors, as well as overweight and low physical activity. Further improvement of air quality is crucial. According to the same Health Council, this requires ambitious government plans, with priority being given to reducing the concentrations of particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide from road traffic, including agricultural traffic, and addressing ammonia emissions from livestock farming. Does the Minister recognise the urgency of this problem? Can the Commission state what measures it is taking in relation to livestock farming and to what extent these measures contribute to the health benefits that are so necessary? It is about two months since the Minister spoke at a meeting of Natural Monuments in Amersfoort about our food and the food system. On that occasion, the Minister said that our food production system has become a complicated system: it aims to produce ever more food at the lowest possible prices. This has already been addressed in the previous contribution. She said: "In that system, something is growing slightly unevenly. That first affects nature, then we do." The Committee of Inquiry held a few weeks ago on the Nature Pact, Nature Values and the Birds and Habitats Directives also addressed the crucial role of the sustainability of agriculture in achieving natural values and increasing biodiversity. In the same speech at Natuurmonumenten, the Minister pointed out the importance of circular agriculture, which also plays a major role in the vision we discussed in the oral consultation last week. The eye-catching perspective outlined in this circular agriculture is that it is produced in accordance with nature. As the minister put it: "Cringing agriculture does not exclude nature, but embraces it. Food production systems no longer function at the expense of nature, but with it. Because nature cares about us, if we care about her." However, the current situation of agriculture seems to be far from the ideal picture. Does the Minister with GroenLinks consider that this requires a large number of further steps? And that the way agriculture has been set up means that in many respects it is worrying about biodiversity, soil life, the insect stock, which is also reaching us with worrying figures, and nature that can withstand weather extremes, as is so beautifully outlined in the future picture of circular agriculture? And the question is: what are the difficult and painful measures that the Minister is prepared to take? We also discussed this last week during the oral consultation. These painful measures will be necessary, because not all forms of current agriculture can and will be adapted to them. There are two more administrative and organisational questions relating to the budget. A few weeks ago, we discussed with the Millions Note that a sum of 63 million has been set aside for the establishment of the new ministry of LNV. In a letter of May of this year, the Minister informed the House of Representatives about the steps taken to establish a fully functioning department. An important part of the work for this should be done in the rest of 2018. This had to do, among other things, with staff, finance and responsibilities, management and such issues. What part, as we approach the end of 2018, is in order as far as the Minister is concerned? What challenges are still waiting for 2019? And perhaps a bit of a suggestive question: what, in the opinion of the Minister, based on the current state of affairs and the experience with the new ministry in the past year, has proved to be the main advantage of this separation of EZK and LNV and the redesign of the Ministry of LNV? The second, more administrative or organizational question concerns the so-called region envelope of 950 million and, if we are well informed, the regional deals that are now being proposed for some 215 million. We were recently informed that the Empire and the selected regions will work together in the coming months to develop the promising proposals for regional deals. The final conclusion of the deals will provide insight into the final financial contribution to such a regional envelope deal and how it will be divided into annual instalments. Those regional deals will also have to agree on the objectives, the approach to results, governance and monitoring. The Minister gave the opportunity to sign the regional deals by spring 2019 at the latest and also to inform the Chamber about them. I would like to ask for this just to be safe, because GroenLinks likes to read it in such a way that both Chambers are informed about it. In particular, we ask that, in the context of the information on the regional deals, attention be paid to the way in which the regional deals are measured and evaluated to achieve the intended objectives, especially in the case of payments made through the Municipal Fund or the Province Fund. How does the Minister expect to send that? We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-11.u9	I shall suspend the meeting until approximately 16:45 a.m. pending the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
