ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint examination of the already appointed legislative proposals under the 2019 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution in the first term. It will not surprise you that I will only be talking about the State Monuments Tax Act, and not so much about the legislative proposal itself, but about the replacement subsidy scheme, because the questions that have been asked are mainly about this. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet considers heritage important, and that is why the cabinet will invest 325 million more in heritage in the coming years. In the letter "Culture in an Open Society" and in the letter "Erfgoed counts" I presented my heritage policy. The emphasis is on the preservation of monuments, the sustainability of monuments, the living environment and the binding force of heritage. These are all subjects that the Cultural Heritage Agency has a lot of knowledge about, which is also shared with the monument owners to enable them to fulfil their role. The Rijksdienst has many specialists and has been successfully implementing subsidy schemes for the maintenance, restoration and sustainability of monuments for years. In financing monuments, we also look at the whole of the heritage. We are looking at where additional resources are needed and where resources are used efficiently or not efficiently. The debate earlier recalled that we have a huge wealth of heritage in the Netherlands: farms, churches, mills, castles and historic houses. They all give color and depth to our cities, villages and the landscape. They also give people a grip, as one of you said. Dealing with monuments is a profession. Both the sector and the public authorities have been working together for years to draw up guidelines, develop quality standards and train young people in this field. In that process, we are moving forward together. We also act better and better as joint governments along the same rules and considerations. Contrary to all the other instruments by which the public authorities support the conservation of monuments, the resources spent by the public authorities through the deduction cannot, or hardly can, be assessed in a uniform manner by reference to standards and directives. Also, some of the resources available for monument maintenance now go to non-monumental parts via the deduction. In order to ensure the quality of the monument maintenance and to devote subsidy only to real monumental parts, the cabinet has decided to transform the deduction into a grant. On Prinsjesdag 2016, the previous cabinet already presented plans to transform the monument deduction into a subsidy scheme. At the time, the proposal was retained, partly because of a reduction of 25 million. Mr Backer has already referred to it: that cut is off. Let me repeat once again: this austerity is definitely off the table. Following the announcement of the intention and since my arrival, intensive discussions have been held with many parties on the replacement subsidy schemes. All the opinions from the sector and debates have led to the government's view that there is now a package of measures that are generous in all respects. The subsidy scheme, which aims to replace the monument deduction, is the result of a lot of discussions with experts, organisations, private owners and, of course, the House of Representatives. It is a simple and quick arrangement for private monument owners. I would like to stress that here because, I believe, there was still some confusion in an interrupting debate just now. There is a quality test, only monumental parts are subsidised and all financial support for monuments is done in a uniform and transparent way. The Cultural Heritage Agency will implement the scheme together with the National Restoration Fund. As I said earlier, the Rijksdienst has built up a lot of knowledge in recent years, not only to test the quality, but also to encourage good quality maintenance for owners. Because quality is really in a conscious attitude with the owners. This attitude stimulates the Rijksdienst also with owners. The basis for the new scheme is the Guidelines eligible conservation costs. That is the basis for all subsidies in the preservation of monuments. The guide has been in use for a long time and is known. It's not new. Each owner will have the same rights and obligations in dealing with the monument in a transparent manner and will be encouraged to handle that monument properly. The new scheme allows owners to apply for a subsidy after they have carried out the maintenance. This is similar to the monument deduction: you also deduct after you have done the maintenance. Owners may, however, assess the eligible costs by means of the guide themselves prior to the maintenance work. They can then submit their invoices digitally in a user-friendly application portal. Within thirteen weeks the owner will receive 38% subsidy. That is, by the way, a higher percentage than next year's deduction. In case of costs higher than €70,000, an architectural inspection report must be attached. That report shall contain a description of the technical status of the State Monument prior to the work for which a grant is requested, describe the need for such work and include an opinion on the approach. The budget for the scheme is €50 million per year. The budget remaining in one year can be transferred to the next grant year. For example, the fact that the Groningen Province used the new scheme as a source of inspiration for the specific subsidy scheme for Groningen shows that the scheme is low-threshold and works well. Owners appear to experience the scheme as simple and quick. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruijn asked about the quality test by the Tax Administration. Why can't that quality be tested by the Tax Administration? The Tax Administration does not have the right expertise to check the maintenance work. The Tax Administration does not have the same expertise as the Cultural Heritage Agency. There's never been that kind of expertise at the IRS either. The Van Dijkhuizen Commission already found in 2009 that the monument deduction is too complicated and too political for the Tax Administration. So this is not a new observation. The Rijksdienst does have that expertise and has been doing this quality assessment successfully for years. We would find it undesirable to use this expertise of the National Administration by the Tax Administration, because the implementation costs would increase considerably. And, again, through the subsidy scheme one also gets more subsidy than one would get through the deduction. So through the IRS, we don't think it's a good route. Mr Van Rij asked why this subsidy scheme is better than the existing deduction. He asked to tell it not from the perspective of the government, but from the perspective of the citizen. The citizen that Mr Van Rij has in mind is the private owner of a house monument. That's what we're talking about here. There are about 30,000 national monuments with a living function. A large part of them are residential houses, about in every municipality in the Netherlands. The owners of these monuments need help in several ways in maintaining or adapting their monument. After all, it is their home, their property and sometimes also their reserve for old age. They put a lot of money and energy in there. It is important to them that the monument keeps its value. You can achieve that by keeping authentic details. We support the citizen as a private monument owner in his important task of maintaining and preserving the monument in a high quality manner. We do this primarily by supporting them and by providing them with knowledge and advice. How can they make the house more sustainable? How can they restore anything? For this we know a whole structure of sectoral organisations and, of course, the National Service itself. This support also includes financial support. That is the other aspect of the citizen's perspective. How do we organise this financial support so that it is as effective and as effective as possible, in the interest of those private monument owners, but also in the interest of all tax-paying Dutch people who bear the burden of subsidising monuments? They can also rely on the effective and efficient use of public funds. The other side is security for citizens. We offer that certainty, for example, by applying the guidance. One important point in the citizen's perspective was legal certainty for Mr Van Rij. Mr Bruijn also asked for this. Is there the same legal certainty for citizens under the subsidy scheme as for tax deductions? I indicated earlier in the written reply that the Cabinet considers that the subsidy scheme now proposed provides at least the same legal certainty as tax deduction, perhaps even more. The subsidy scheme is designed in such a way as to give citizens maximum security. The Guidelines on Eligible Maintenance Costs are the basis for this grant. Owners or their contractors may see in advance which costs are eligible for subsidy. I have an additional point on legal certainty. That was just the subject of the debate. Mr Van Rij spoke about the so-called BBM declaration, which some owners get in advance from the Tax Administration. About 600 of these declarations are issued, while around 17,000 people make use of the deduction. So really only a small part of those who make use of the deduction gets in advance certainty about the expenses to be deducted. For the other people who subtract costs, that test only happens when they subtract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u4	I have a small question for the Minister to clarify. Does the group which is already getting certainty in advance in the new scheme also receive security in advance? Or is that a little more complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u5	I'll come back to that later. In my story I will come back to the way in which owners can or cannot get security in advance. One of the ways in which they get security is through the guidance. That guide works well. We know this because that guidance is already used in other state and provincial subsidy schemes. We notice that it gives a lot of owners sufficient security. Also financially, the budget in the scheme is such that we have sufficient security in it. Should anyone look at the guide and still doubt it, he can always contact the Cultural Heritage Agency and ask questions about how to see it. Mrs Sent had a question about financial security. To give that assurance, a system has been chosen with a subsidy ceiling of 200 million for four years instead of 50 million per year. Any overruns and overruns may then be offset beyond the annual limits. For example, we know that in the coming years we will be able to meet all applications for subsidies. The scheme will be evaluated in 2020. That is one of the commitments I made to the House of Representatives. Then we can also see if we can come up with that subsidy ceiling. On the basis of the expenditure on the deduction, we expect the current budget to work out well. However, in the review in 2020, we can see whether that expectation is real. If very large restoration projects require maximum security prior to the work, you can always get a 100% loan via the National Restoration Fund. They are given in advance and then they have certainty. That is a loan, but these loans are also intended for these very large restoration projects. There is therefore an open standard in taxation, unlike in the guide, except for the small group which receives a prior explanation. Deductible are maintenance costs that have been reasonably incurred. In practice, this open standard also refers to a grey area, because we know from the research that has been done that non-monumental parts were regularly added to the deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u6	To obtain the loan in advance also includes a guarantee that a grant will be granted afterwards, or. that the current scheme accepts the ex post deduction, or is that not one-on-one linkable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u7	No, because the loan and the grant are two different things. The low-interest loans are really for the major restoration projects. In addition, you get security in advance, because that's what you're asking for the loan for. You can't borrow and apply for a grant, so those two things really need to be taken apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u8	Following that. That's obvious. But at the moment, is it possible to apply for the loan and have the tax deduction? So that's a deterioration in those situations where you need that loan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u9	To take that point out immediately and explain it properly: the Heritage Act excludes the possibility to receive a grant if a loan has been granted. That's in article 7.6 of the Heritage Act. That is a law that you adopted unanimously here in 2015. Even in the current situation, there is no cumulation, because an owner gets a 100% loan or 70% loan if he is entitled to deduct, so if he is entitled to deduct, he can borrow, but not 100%. Now you can borrow 100% and apply for a grant. Moreover, foundations are not entitled to deduct. They can only borrow 100%. No one can borrow 100% in the current situation and benefit from tax deduction. Then you always have part of a loan and part of a deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u10	Yeah, but why not equalize that? I understand very well that in the current situation you cannot borrow 100% if you have tax deduction. Then you can borrow 70%. Why not apply that one-on-one in a situation where there is a subsidy? If you get 38% subsidy for the eligible costs, you can say that you don't get a 100% loan, but 62%. Then you have a level playing field with what it's like now. Then you say the Heritage Act doesn't allow that. Then we'll change it, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u11	The scheme we have now ensures that you can get a refund for what you do about restoration once. What you would like is for you to apply for part of the grant to pay off the loan through the grant. You can get 100% loan for a great restoration, and the owners could look into that. Those loans are intended for major restorations. And then you can get a grant for what you're doing for conservation later. So the costs of maintenance and maintenance that you can have after a loan-funded restoration, you can then get subsidised again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u12	Mr Van Rij, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u13	Yes, I'll be very brief. Thanks for the answer. You have not yet convinced me that the situation is deteriorating in relation to the current situation. I am particularly concerned about those owners who do not have those resources, so they really need that loan in order to be able to carry out that maintenance. Now we can do it with a tax deduction of 70%, and you're going to do it for 62%. I don't see why that can't be straightened out. If the law needs to be changed, you can pledge it here. You haven't convinced me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u14	It is now the case that those who need a loan to do large maintenance can get a 100% low-interest loan for those big restorations. If you then do maintenance for conservation, you can get 38% subsidy. For the conservation of large monuments there is also the Sim, so there are very good opportunities for every private owner of a house to get compensation and equipment does not have to go backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u15	Still, this does seem a little crazy. Is there a difference between restoration and maintenance, so that a loan and maintenance subsidy would be available for restoration? Then I can imagine, but not otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u16	That's how we look at it. For larger restorations you have the low-interest loans, because they are often not used for maintenance and regular maintenance, also because you do not know when the need for that maintenance arises. Suppose in a painting you find that the windows are rotten and need to be replaced quickly, then you're just going to do that maintenance for conservation, and that can be supported. You usually do a low-interest loan in advance planned, extensive restoration, so those arrangements exist side by side. At that time, when the Erfgoedwet was drawn up, it was considered that it would be good not to have both a grant and a loan. In the case of large restoration projects one can thus obtain certainty by applying in advance to the National Restoration Fund. Mr Bruijn asked whether, under this guarantee, you could apply for a pre-financing. The choice was made to apply for and directly determine the grant within thirteen weeks, as I said, in order to meet the industry's desire to minimise the administrative burden on the owner and to use a system similar to that applied to the deduction. In doing so, the owner is given as much flexibility as possible to provide for the maintenance of the national monument, because you never know in advance when there is acute damage or unforeseen work. Then it is also logical that you can apply for a grant for it afterwards. You don't want to wait until you get a hold of that acute maintenance. Once again, with higher amounts one can always ask for advice from the RCE. We have tried to provide minimum administrative burdens and maximum ex post security. This is also the case in municipalities and provinces. For these grant applications, we will set up an online portal on the RCE website, so that it is very easy for everyone to do so. An inspection report must be attached to applications above €70,000. Such an application is expected to take about an hour. For an inspection report, experts will need a little more time. Perhaps the administrative burden for the owner will be slightly higher, because you cannot immediately include it in the deduction, but we expect it to be somewhat clear. Mr Bruijn and others asked whether the Geluk-Poortvliet motion would be adopted in the House of Representatives. Will the budget also remain available to the private monument owners? Yes, that's the case. I also informed the House of Representatives by letter that these funds would remain available. The authors of the motion have ruled that that is a good way to deal with the motion. The budget of the new housing scheme is based on what is needed to grant the private owners of monuments with a living function. That budget is 50 million, 200 million over four years. 12 million more has become available for the Sim. Private owners can also make use of this. For example, they are owners of large estates. Moreover, the subsidy rate in the Sim has been increased from 50% to 60%. It can also strengthen vulnerable monuments, such as historic outskirts. It has long been a wish of the House of Representatives to increase that subsidy rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u17	Minister, do I understand you correctly? Are you saying that the budget for the private owners of the state monuments remains the same? That's the calculation of the 200 million and the 50 million. The group that can now make use of the tax deduction, so the people who own a national monument that is inhabited or partially inhabited, remain exactly the same group. Did you therefore take into account precisely those situations that I raised earlier in the debate, of shareholders of an NSW estate - for example, or those entitled to a separate private property in which not only the estate is located, but also the built property, the national monument? Are they in that group, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u18	That's a good question. The subsidy is a concession for incurred costs. In these cases, of fiscally transparent NSW estates, because that is what you are talking about, the e.g. can always apply for a subsidy for the costs incurred via the route of the Sim. So he could get 60% of that. That's really bad. But your question is another one. The e.g. can also apply for a grant and say: I will then divide it among those shareholders. I would like to assure you that we will try to extend the housing scheme in such a way that the NSW land goods can also benefit from this scheme either via the route of the fixed shareholders or via the route of the e.g. via the route of the fixed shareholders. We still have to puzzle how this is going to be done in order not to have an impossible combination of regulations, but I would like to say that we will incorporate that into the scheme, because I see your point. Previously they looked at the private shareholders and now they ask: can they do so later via the route of the private shareholders? I'm gonna find a way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u19	Thank you for that answer. So I understand that you are also going to make the subsidy scheme available to the private owners of state monuments to the shareholders or certificate holders of NSW estates - for example, or foundations. I appreciate that. That's a tough commitment. I think that you are also taking away a lot of unrest from the group that initially saw it as a deterioration. If we are going to do something about the 'I', I have a supplementary question, if that is all right, Mr President. It's connected to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u20	Short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u21	Thank you. Actually, that's what I was asking for. Now, in practice, landowners who have a national monument also bring green maintenance under tax deduction. What will that look like in the subsidy scheme, taking into account the commitment you have just made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u22	Mr Backer and Mr Binnema have asked questions about that green. I'll get to that later. I will come back to the fiscally transparent NSW estates, the bv's. If I may give them a heartfelt advice, I would say: ask through the Sim, through the e.g., grant and divide it, because then you will get 60%, instead of 38% if everyone does it themselves. It seems to me to be a simple calculation. It yields more, it is a greater reimbursement of the costs incurred. You will have to get your share of the costs yourself, but if you prefer to do it by another route where you get less..................................................................................................................................................... I have heard very well from you that this is a pressing wish, so I will see how we can incorporate it into the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u23	Thank you for this opinion, but I have one comment to make. It sounds nice that they get 60% instead of 38%, but then there must be enough money in the pot from which that 60% is paid, and there eat more from the wheel. That's why it's better to use two pots.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u24	Yes. There's 45 million in that jar, by the way. That's not nothing. But there's another point. Mrs Sent and Mr Binnema had a question on quality assurance. How do you guarantee the quality, even afterwards? A lot of quality assurance is done in advance by using the guidance and what the RCE is doing to promote quality maintenance. For work above €70,000, an inspection report must be prepared by an expert body, which will also check for quality. And if you grow to a private monument, a house monument, for more than €70,000, you will usually need a municipal permit for that. Moreover, the tax deduction often failed to check whether the licence was indeed available. The work below €70,000 is monitored on a sample basis, and the work above is all monitored. So that happens afterwards. This is done either by asking for pictures or by simply checking on the spot whether it has been carried out in a good and responsible way. Again, in the case of the larger interventions, this also happens along the route of the building permit. There will therefore also be ex post controls. To the certainty about the budget, which Mrs Sent asked for, I went into. So we do that by shifting the budget over the year. Then the budget for green. There are two ways to do that. The Sim is accessible to green monuments, so it can be accessed via the Sim. But it can also be done through the subsidy scheme for private houseowners. If there is green, it is integral and can be taken with it. This can also be done through the two routes with the known percentages. Mr Van Rij's question on the transitional arrangements. There are indeed people who started a project in 2018 for the maintenance or restoration of their monument. They will be deducted for this in 2018 and will have to go to the grant scheme in 2019. Mr Van Rij asked whether this was not unexpected for people and asked for a transitional arrangement. I would like to make the note that people have been warned by the Tax Administration since 2016: do you know that there is a intention at Parliament to convert the deduction into a subsidy scheme? So it doesn't come as a surprise to anyone; let's be clear about that as well. But I understand that it causes some concern here and there. Mr Van Rij spoke of a possible disadvantage. It is not in the conversion of the deduction and the subsidy of 38%. What would be the disadvantage? That disadvantage actually applies especially to owners who are already in possession of a so-called BBM declaration. On this basis, they may have relied on the possibility that the non-monumental parts could also be deducted. I can imagine that some sort of certainty has been given which they say: but now it will not be possible in the grant. We really have to puzzle about that, but we're going to see how we can find a form of disadvantage compensation for that group, which is, by the way, a very limited group. I'd be happy to tell you. But by the way, it's about a small group. I would also like to make the point that one could also know. This doesn't come as a surprise. It is mainly about not being able to subtract from non-monumental parts. For example, you mentioned already the heating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u25	I thank the Minister for this clarification. Let me mention a specific situation right away. For example, someone has €60,000 worth of maintenance to do on his national monument. For €40,000 maintenance will be carried out in 2018 and for €20,000 in 2019. This is separate from the limited group you just mentioned that has that statement. If we change the law on 1 January, it is very unfortunate if that person has to apply for a grant for that €20,000. I understood from the written answer to my question on the transitional right that if you pay that €20,000 in advance in 2018, based on the cash system, you still have the deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u26	That is the case anyway. If you spent it in 2018 and paid that contractor in advance, you can just subtract it. So what was paid in 2018, can be deducted in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u27	Thank you for that clarification, too. Only then, of course, there are always people with a national monument that you yourself gave to that maintenance is sometimes difficult to estimate because of setbacks and the contractor says in 2019: sorry, it's not €60,000 but it's €80,000. Another €20,000 will be added. Can we not show some flexibility in the attack scheme? Because these declarations are not all filed before 1 May. Maybe you can say: okay, if you pay that extra €20,000 in 2019 and the contractor proves that, you can still deduct that from the tax assessment scheme 2018. It's very specific, but it helps to remove a bit of unrest. It may be more of a question for the Secretary of State than it is for you, but I would like to ask him now, because we are talking about the right of transition. I welcome your commitment, but if it succeeds, I want it to go into effect before 1 January, because this limited group of people you are talking about is concerned with that. They'd like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u28	We're gonna give that clarity as soon as possible. But we have to say somewhere: here it is done. I think I have just been as generous as possible with regard to those people in whom perhaps an expectation has been awakened that will be otherwise due to the subsidy scheme. Suppose, in your case, the contractor would say: I will still have an account in 2019. It is not that complicated to apply for a subsidy. By the way, you get 38% more than you would have in 2019 via a deduction. So let's not explain something to great suffering which is actually very clear. I meet you here at most in a number of things. But somewhere you have to dare to draw a line. It is a transition from legislation that comes as no surprise to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u29	I did not quite understand what the Minister meant when she talked about the possibility of compensating for expenditure on non-monumental parts. The advantage of the scheme is that the money is only used for monumental elements. Or does the Minister see this only in the context of the transitional arrangements that have just been discussed? Because, of course, there can never be a great deal of transition, because it is always a question of individual projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u30	You're right to say that. One of the great advantages of the subsidy scheme is that we can really focus on monumental parts much more specifically. I have said to Mr van Rij that I would like to look at one point to see if I can accommodate people in some kind of transitional arrangement. This applies to those people who had a BBM declaration in 2018. These are often people working on a major maintenance project. So we are talking about people who have received a statement from the Tax Administration stating that you will be entitled to deduct this later. We know that at times there are indeed non-monumental parts in this. I want to see if we can give people who have such a statement and who didn't pay in advance in 2018 because that can also give them a form of disadvantage compensation in 2019. I imagine that, if you have such a statement from the Tax Office, you will say: I have based on the expectation that I could be reimbursed for those costs. Then it's a small, clear group. But a very small part of the people who do maintenance have such an explanation. Let's give that group another year of coulance. But you are right to say that we are focusing on those monumental parts of the scheme, which I think is a great advantage of the scheme, and that public money must also be put where it is intended to go. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Mr Schalk had asked how we respond to religious heritage. It is precisely because of the transformation of this scheme and precisely because of the fact that we are taking out the non-monumental parts that there is also room to increase the subsidy rate in the Sim, which can also benefit churches, for example. That was also a long-standing wish of CIO-K. In addition, the coalition agreement states a number of things about heritage resources. Then it's also about great projects, really big projects. I have published a number of them in recent years. One of them concerns the Stevens Church in Nijmegen. You can actually make a larger amount of money available for that. We are now also looking at how we can help churches through a current account, for example, but also other major monuments that need subsidies and security about their subsidy, over several years. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions I have asked about the monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have not received any questions about the previous bill that I have to answer. They have all been answered neatly by the colleague of OCW. But I may have made a mistake. Then I'd love to hear it. I have focused on the other legislative proposals. It was once again a great pleasure to listen to the contributions of Members today, as I say to you, Mr President. I would also like to thank them for the questions they have asked. There weren't few of them. I've secretly made a kind of count of the number of questions. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het zijn er iets meer dan 150.]] I have been asked to have a number of broad reflections. You understand I'm gonna answer all those questions. I'm gonna be wide-ranging, and I'm gonna answer all these 150 questions. So we're sitting and standing here, I guess, together for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u33	I hope you'll be done with it by 7:00, because we'll have dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u34	Then I have to throw up the number of words I put in a minute. But I'll see if I can merge questions left and right. I will see if we can still get a picture of the answers I would have liked to give. Anyway, it doesn't make any sense. There are many, but the number of questions also fits the number of pages of legislation we have offered to your Chamber. A few comments have already been made. I also realize that it is a lot of legislative proposals. Fortunately, we had a little more time this time than last year. At that time we also discussed a number of legislative proposals with each other, but then the preparation time was even shorter if possible. Okay, it's a lot of questions. I've created a clustering that I will continue. That might be useful for the co-writers. That clustering actually has the same priority I shared with you earlier, namely the five pillars of my fiscal policy agenda. This starts with reducing the burden on citizens and reducing the burden on labour. Block two is actually about the plans that are good for the Dutch locational environment, at least for all those who want to engage in real economic activities here. The third block will deal with the greening of the tax system and the plans we have for it. The fourth block is about combating tax avoidance and evasion. There are a number of legislative proposals relating to this. The fifth block, but that is a relatively clear block, I have noticed, is the feasibility of the Tax Administration. That is perhaps also because we will be discussing this with each other a little longer at the beginning of next year. Allow me to outline briefly, perhaps for a short time, these five things which were once again the ideas we had. I'm doing that for a really short time. Then I will look at the more specific answers in those cubes. In the plans we have presented, I think it is important first of all that the cabinet wants the Dutch to feel that things are going well in their pockets. This is mainly about the working Dutch. A combination of measures we have taken in this tax package increases purchasing power for all groups and especially for middle-income workers. This is achieved by reducing the burden on labour and introducing a two-disc system with a basic rate and a top rate for higher incomes. This system is more favourable to households with only one working partner compared to the current system, I am already telling Mr Schalk. The cabinet also increases the general tax rebate, so that the low-income people also benefit from economic growth. The reduction in the burden on labour is achieved by increasing the burden on consumption and reducing the rate at which certain deductions are taken into account. As I have also shared with your Chamber in the General Financial Reviews, the cabinet considers this slide wise, because a tax on consumption distorts the choices of the Dutch less than, for example, a tax on labour. This is ultimately good for economic growth. That is what OECD and IMF have been telling us for many years. It is also important to invest in the public sector, education and infrastructure. That's what the Cabinet does. Because that, too, is good for the climate of establishment. I think Mrs Sent made the same point. It is really not just about taxes, when we are talking about the locational climate. It's a lot of other things, which companies choose to come to our country. This includes a good public sector. I would also say, in my view, to Mr Backer: a stable legislation and a stable policy that looks at it. It is actually about the level of all public services. These are all important things, which are a bit separate from taxation. But today, perhaps, I will talk a little more about taxation. This is why the Cabinet is not only taking measures to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses, but also investing in society by increasing expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u35	The Secretary of State is moving so fast now. I was talking about justice. Legislation, of course, too, but at this rate a word may disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u36	I will come back to all the individual questions in detail. This was the setting I wanted to outline: what were we doing again in this coalition agreement? Some of you also said that this is the first plan of this cabinet itself. So I am going to say again at a rapid rate what the starting points were and then I will take a little more time for the various questions, but I would like to let Mr Backer know that I had heard him correctly, because he thought that this subject sometimes gets a little out of hand in the debate, and of course we do not want that. Then I'm gonna move on to the locational climate. So the package before us is good for the locational environment, as I said earlier: for real economic activities. Then I say right at the start: for both large and small companies, because we lower the VPB rate, but also because we lower the burden on labour and therefore make it more attractive for companies to hire people. This does not mean that the cabinet wants to participate in a race to the bottom. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. The reduction in the rate of the Vpb is part of a wider package. I often note, but perhaps some of you too, that we talk very often about the reduction of charges we give by tariff reductions, but on the other hand, there are always these broadenings. I'd like to mention them now. These basic broadenings are almost as large as the tariff reductions. For the nominal effective rates, nothing changes so much, yet you can see that the rate goes down. It is a conscious choice of the cabinet to opt for lower rates and a broader basis. Moreover, the bulk of this broadening of the base is achieved by large companies, while the revenue from the tariff reduction amounts to both large and small enterprises. That is something I said in the General Financial Reviews: there was sometimes an image of the cabinet that was particularly attentive to the large business. But if you look at the measures that we are actually taking and which are now included in the Tax Plan, you will see a different picture, namely that it was no worse food for SMEs than it was for large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u37	I think it is very good that the Secretary of State says that once again, because there is a great deal of misconception about that and there are all pictures being made. I would like to add, if he agrees with me, that regardless of what happens next year and the years after for large businesses and small businesses, small businesses have already received around 7.5 billion in tax expenditure in the Millions Note on this year's budget. I am thinking of the SME profit exemption. I'm thinking self-employed deduction. I am also thinking of the agricultural exemption. This is sometimes forgotten in this country: what one already has and what one then gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u38	I totally agree with this. I also hold talks and meetings with SMEs on the left and right, and I sometimes make this point. It should also be remembered that at the beginning of this century we were still at almost 40% for large parts of the income tax. This is still 15% for SMEs at the end of this cabinet term. I am not even talking about tax expenditure. I refer to the small business scheme. We have also made exceptions in the fiscal unit this year. It is really not the case that we would not be aware of the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. I am glad that Mr Van Rij supports me in that. We also know that they are and remain the engine of the Dutch economy. If small businesses are doing well, the Netherlands is doing well, and we would like to continue to do so. The third pillar is greening. As you know, the cabinet considers greening important. I actually have a thing for it myself. I would like us to be able to take steps with this. One way to stimulate greening is, of course, to burden undesirable behavior or fulfillment. That is exactly what we, as a cabinet, are going to do. Not everything is already in this Tax Plan. We also have some wonderful legislative proposals ahead of us, hopefully. We are talking about the minimum price for CO, but also about the flight tax. A few comments have just been made on this. However, there are, of course, a number of measures already in this Tax Plan which are going to burden pollution. I guess I don't have to tell you so much about the last block right now. With all the legislation we are going to see and look at together, one thing for me will always remain an important starting point, namely that I want to make sure that the legislation we are proposing is not unnecessarily complicated and is feasible, not just for the Tax Administration. I always have a bit of a problem with the concept of capacity, but people need to understand what we are doing and how we can deal with it. For example, they must also be able to adapt their behaviour to the measures that we propose by law. That is important, because if we pass laws that people don't really understand, when they might be meant to regulate something, but no one responds to them because they don't understand it or can't, then I think we are actually doing unwise policies. I therefore agreed with the appeals of the Members of your Chamber to continue to pay a great deal of attention to this, not only from the perspective of the performer, but also from the perspective of the citizen. But I'm going to say a little more about that with a few answers. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the various questions that have been asked and then I start back to the block of burden development. Maybe that's the thickest block. Income policy always requires a lot of clarification, and I understand that, because, as someone rightly said today, there are few things more political than tax rates. Although sometimes that's not seen by everyone. I'm trying to cluster the questions a little bit. Let me begin with the purchasing power effects of the energy transition that Mr Esser asked for. Can that not be clearly seen, was his question, because that is quite important? In general, I have explained earlier, it is true that the increase in energy taxation is mainly reflected in the general inflation rate, the effect of which on the calculated purchasing power for households is the same. This also applies to many other factors, such as change in the rental price. This is actually in accordance with the normal system that we use to calculate purchasing power development. In developing a future climate policy, this balanced burden-sharing between households is an important focus for the cabinet. We often talk about this in the discussions on the climate agreement. Eventually, not only the Plan Bureau for the Environment, but also the CPB will pass the climate agreement on to the income effects. So, yeah, I think it's important that we get that. We now have a kind of general calculation of what it does in inflation, but we have already agreed that the Minister of Finance has also promised this during the General Financial Reviews to get a little more insight into what such a large package of energy transition measures means, in conjunction with the Planning Bureau. So I don't know exactly what it's gonna look like. As soon as we get there, I'll also inform your Chamber of the outcome of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u39	That was precisely my question, whether we could be informed about it. That seems to me to be a good thing, because we all know that in the coming period this discussion on what the income effects of the energy transition will be going to be going to be very much. So if we can get more detailed information on that, very much. For it cannot be that it is only calculated through the inflation rate. That is far too thin for such an important political discussion. So you're there, I see you nodding yes, I totally agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u40	Yeah, that's what I was just trying to say. That question had been put in the picture before, and I understand that, precisely because this burden sharing is a subject of discussion. People have to understand what is happening and not have the idea. The example of the Tesla rider has been mentioned before, that there were a lot of measures around Tesla's.................................................................................................................................................................................... We really get that. That is why we have asked the planning agency to get a better picture of this. As soon as we have that, I will provide information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u41	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can identify what we are doing and what is happening in the rest of the world. So let's say the number of coal plants being built in China and India, the increase in CO everywhere else in the world, in relation to what we do, what we spend and what that has an effect on us. Can all that become a little insightful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u42	I get the question. It is quite comprehensive, but I do not think it is intended to give a literal answer to the question asked. The Netherlands is only one country and the world has more. Everything we do could eventually have waterbed effects in the countries around us. Suppose we take a lot of measures that seem to have wonderful CO effects in our country. If then the same thing does not happen across our borders, then perhaps the environment has not progressed as far as Mr Van Strien wants. We agree with that. At the same time, many countries have now signed the Paris Climate Treaty and these countries will also have to take action. We know one thing for sure: if we all do it together, it is more effective than when we take turns. That doesn't mean we just have to wait for everything until the rest of the world has it. Sometimes you have to want to have the willingness to lead the way, and that's what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u43	I read today in The Financial Daily that there are currently 1.6 billion air conditioning units in the world and that there are 5.6 billion in 30 years' time. The number of coal plants that will be built for this purpose in developing countries and which are completely outside that climate agreement is truly innumerable. I think that the government is going to pay billions to the Dutch people for something that has no effect at all, then has a lot to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u44	I do not agree with Mr Van Strien that there is no effect. At the moment when we take action, for example by pricing polluting behaviour, you can expect behavior to decrease. I agree with Mr Van Strien that this is more effective as we do it with more countries at the same time, including air conditioning and what you can do with it. No one will doubt that. Only with the image that is being sketched, that it makes no sense, no matter what we do, I simply do not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u45	One final comment. In my opinion, the only effect will be that the Dutch people can see the impoverishment of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u46	I seriously believe that greening not only leads to impoverishment, but that it also offers an opportunity for the Netherlands and Dutch companies to take the lead in a development that is going to happen anyway, which is also necessary and cannot be stopped. I think, on balance, that the Dutch business community has the innovative capacity to make a profit here, and with the pleasure of the Dutch business community that can do it, the Dutch citizen will also enjoy it. So I really do not agree with this somewhat pessimistic view of climate change. I will continue with a question from Mrs Sent. She asked if I would be willing to map the impact of the VAT increase on different income groups, so that they can be taken into account when dealing with the next Millions Note. Let me begin by understanding your concerns about low incomes. In the package of measures proposed by the cabinet, we see that, on balance, there is a leveling. We can talk for a long time about exactly what coefficients to use, but we can see that purchasing power is increasing at least for all income groups. Ms Sent referred to CBS data from 2004 which showed that VAT was a regressive tax and indicated that these figures were too outdated for an adequate assessment. Fortunately, the statistics of the CBS on consumption and household income are already available for 2013. These more recent figures have also been used in replying to the questions on the CPB's draftsman this year. So we are not basing ourselves on 2004 figures. Those figures show that the pressure of the reduced VAT rate, which is the measure we are taking now, the increase of the reduced VAT rate and not of the general rate on disposable income actually runs from 1.5% to 1.3% between the second and ninth decimals of the income building. So that's a very small drop. But at the same time, if you looked at the expenditures, you'd see the opposite happening exactly in the same deciel series. The conclusion that the VAT effect always leads to austerity or de-levelling or to greater income differences between high and low incomes is simply not correct. If you look at the first equation, maybe it's a little bit right. But if, for example, you look at actual spending, you see exactly the opposite: a rise of 1.2% to 1.5% between the second and ninth income decels. For example, I think there are many more nuances, but in the end it leads me, in the cabinet, to the conclusion that the differences in VAT between incomes are not as large as Mrs Sent might have suggested. I do not believe that we will find out much more by doing extensive research, by looking again at the impact of the VAT increase on all kinds of population groups. It follows from the information available that we need not be afraid that these measures will introduce greater inequality by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u47	First, on the first point of the Secretary of State, on the leveling. I do not get that from the answer to Question 41 on the Million Note sent by the Cabinet on 1 October, because it says precisely that the lowest income group, the lowest 20%, is improving 1% and all other income groups are improving 1.6%. I read that as de-leveling and not as leveling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u48	We have had this discussion many times. Just looking at purchasing power figures does not give the picture of income inequality. There are more things that can happen in your life that affect your income position. So we have always said that you cannot just use these figures, that of the purchasing power development of a year. You could also look at another coefficient, like the gini coefficient. It's giving us a different picture. There's really a lot to say about that. We've done that before. You're actually asking me if I can do another big study on this increase in VAT. I say that it has actually already been done and that you can see that the differences between those income groups and what they spend on VAT, the reduced VAT rate, are simply not that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u49	There is no gini coefficient in the Macro Economic Exploration 2019. There is a calculation of the income groups and I still see a de-levelling in that. Then the issue of the effects of the VAT increase. Of course, VAT payments are increasing in the case of expenditure. That seems almost like a logic that you don't have to examine empirically. What is much more relevant, when we look at income inequality, the effects are related to income and not related to spending. And there you can see that the expectation is that the increase in the low VAT rate will be de-levelling. Given the lack of clarity and uncertainty surrounding the behavioural effects, we consider it important to present that map and ask the Secretary of State to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u50	I was just trying to explain. Mrs Sent may find it very logical that the percentage of expenditure is increasing, but I find it surprising in all honesty. It's not only that you spend more when you earn more, but you also spend relatively more on the reduced VAT rate. You might expect that from the high VAT rate or from other spending, but in the low VAT rate you can see that it increases percentagely as you earn more. I thought that was surprising, but Mrs. Sent was less. It indicates that it is not that, if you increase your reduced VAT rate, that leads to a de-levelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u51	Finally, given the uncertainty surrounding the effects of the increase in the reduced VAT rate on the different income groups, I would like to repeat my question to undertake an investigation into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u52	I'm not making that commitment. I was just trying to put that more sympathetically, but it came down to the same thing. I shall continue with a question from Mr Ester. He said that the purchasing power development for the one- and two-earers in 2019 is reasonably balanced, but that there is still much work to be done to bridge the gap structurally, at least to narrow it. He asked me what I wanted to do, and that is interesting. That is, of course, always an interesting question, a final objective. Buying power development is a kind of year-on-year concept: is there a difference compared to last year? But actually you want Dutch people to have enough money in their pocket to make necessary expenses, but also to be able to save and invest and also have enough money to hopefully do nice things in this life. That's not unimportant either. This development in purchasing power is therefore a consequence of income policy and economic development. It's actually a resultant of that. Economic development is, of course, not entirely in the government's own hands. We can claim what we want, but that really goes by our hand sometimes. But with income policy we can exert a great deal of influence on purchasing power and also on income distribution. In terms of income policy, we do have a final objective, namely a balance between balanced income distribution, sound public finances and good labour market incentives. These are all kinds of elements that we would like to take into account in our discussions on income. But of course it is also the case that these goals are sanding together. They don't always run one-on-one. For the cabinet, it is important, after years of lagging behind, for example for the single-earners, to achieve an increase in purchasing power. To this end, the Cabinet takes various measures, e.g. in the development of purchasing power for a earner. That's what we choose to do, and then you take that measure. The cabinet has no end goal in the difference of tax burden between one and two earners, if that was the question. That difference cannot be seen as completely isolated either, but it needs to be seen in the larger balancing framework of income policies, where, for example, the employment rate chairman too, then I have completed that sentence and sound public finances are important goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u53	I'm glad you're onto my non-verbal communication. Mr Köhler has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Secretary of State say he has all kinds of goals, one of which is a balanced income development. I assume he means "balanced between the different income groups." I asked him a question, and I think I need to repeat it now because he's moving on. How does he assess and defend that, according to the government's own figures, the lowest 20% of income coming next year, but also over the entire government period, will improve much less in purchasing power, i.e. net, after having eliminated all measures than the higher income groups? Does he think that's balanced? Is that the objective of the policy? If not, why does he do it, or why does the government do it? That was my question, and I hope that the Secretary of State will not go over it with the mere statement that he is also in favour of a balanced income policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u55	No, I certainly wouldn't dare. You still have 28 pages left around this theme. I've got to get that over with. I'll do my best. If at the end of the block I have not answered this point, I am happy to do so, but I think this question will also be raised. It was about whether there was a final goal and I said that the final goal always depends on different themes. Then there was a question from Mr Schalk about the options to explore whether the marginal pressure between one and two earners could be reduced. In fact, the government's measures reduce the marginal pressure for both one and two earners. At the same time, I believe that thinking should never stand still. I have said this to Mr Schalk before. Therefore, together with the Minister of SZW, I will explore the long-term possibilities for reducing the remaining pain points in marginal pressure. Everyone can see that there are issues about that. I can therefore say to Mr Schalk that in this study we will look specifically at the position of the single and double-earners. I hope to be able to forward the research to you for the coming summer. Mr Schalk spoke of an exorbitant marginal tax burden and asked whether taxation as an incentive to work would ultimately not create a mismatch. I really agree with Mr Schalk that marginal pressure, especially if it comes close to 100 or far above it, is absolutely undesirable. More work needs to pay more. It is also not the case that these marginal pressure peaks are very long-term. You can see them growing very much sometimes. If you earn that one euro more, you feel it, but if you have five or ten more, it decreases. Nevertheless, I understand the point made very well. I have tried to explain why we could not do that so easily for the 2021 marginal printing calculation. Last year we presented the marginal pressure graphs, but as it goes on from year to year, it is not possible to do so by 2021. I hope, however, that, if we follow this year by year, we will see that in the same table, which we can update once, marginal pressure and certainly peaks will be reduced. That is the objective we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u56	Thank you for the commitment to research towards the single and double-earners. With regard to the table 2020-2021, I understand that the Secretary of State promises that next year it will simply come along with the documents. We don't have to ask, because it just comes along, because we want to see that year on year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u57	Yeah, I think we can do that. We do need the calculation from the planning agency. I don't know exactly how they do it, or they make it for us. You want to follow what happens to that marginal pressure. We're all looking at that. I'm sure I'd like to take that with me. I'll check to see if I'm not making a commitment that the planning agency doesn't make annually and I'll come back to that in the second term. The idea is that you can get an insight into how development is following our policies. We'll share that. Mr Schalk had a somewhat more extensive calculation of the marginal pressure pathway. I won't completely check what he's done. I'm gonna drop that for a second. His point was clear. It's very high and he's asking if there's anything we can do about it. I just said a few things about that. I have a few smaller questions from Mr Schalk about this marginal pressure, but they are the same. I get his point. He gave examples of this: phasing-in and phasing-out routes, keeping the system affordable. I can still make a whole speech about the individual system, but in view of the time I will not answer all the questions. Let me see if Mr Schalk agrees. This is at the heart of my commitment. He's been heard right, and we're moving on. Then I'll continue with the available income. Mr Van Rij and also Mr Ten Hoeve had questions about this. In the draft resolution 2019, the Central Planning Bureau concluded that households' real disposable income had fallen behind economic growth. Mr Van Rij asked if I could reflect on that. Mr Ten Hoeve also asked. He even made a trip to the yellow hoops and the discontent felt about the redistribution. Indeed, the planning agency found that in that 15-year period of research, 2002 to 2017, disposable income has fallen behind growth. The planning agency says that this is mainly due to the lack of wage growth in productivity growth. This is a subject that we have also discussed in the OECD. It is not only in the Netherlands, but you can also see that happening wider. It also has to do with the development of taxes and premiums. You can also see it, for example, when we talk about ageing, from pension contributions. Also for next year, we want to reduce the burden in the context of purchasing power policy, but at the same time the pension premium is playing into people's pockets. You can see in the Netherlands, but in fact in all OECD countries there has recently been a nice report on the issue of ageing pressures. So the premium pressure is increasing, regardless of what you do with the taxes. This has led to a lower growth in disposable income. At the same time, it is macroeconomically true that, as tax and premium pressures increase, more money has been spent on provisions. These may be pension provisions, but they can also be other provisions, such as good education or good care. Both are important, by the way, but they cost money. Then you can see that tax and contribution pressures are increasing and that people's disposable income is actually lagging behind growth. But prosperity may have increased without seeing that in the disposable income, because money goes to the burden premiums through the public provisions. It is a bit of a technical story, but it is important to explain to people who are concerned about this that available income is not everything, but that it is also about the level of provision and the ability to finance ageing or more people who are sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u58	To be honest, I agree with that. So if you take that long period, you'll see on the one hand that 2%, which, of course, doesn't look like much if gross domestic product grows 15% in the same period. But at the same time it is not experienced by people that part of that prosperity, as you rightly say, is in collective facilities such as care and education. There is a huge mismatch between what people have net left and can spend and what they experience as just when it comes to participation in that prosperity. Not for now, but perhaps for another time you are referring to an OECD report..... would help greatly if the other factors, such as demographic developments, globalisation and the digitisation of the economy were also highlighted. Perhaps the Scientific Council for Government Policy can play a role in this. If gross wages lag behind over such a long period, not only in the Netherlands but also in other countries, we now see the consequences. But, yeah, you can't start paying more paychecks now it happens, a kind of catch-up operation if you're in an environment where you have heavy competition and where you can't produce and drop what you did first. So a somewhat more fundamental story about this and also an explanation from the government would be very much appreciated as a CDA group, because otherwise we will get bogged down every year in the 0.1% purchasing power discussions or 0.3% for that and that target group. It is also all very important, but with that we are going to experience this mismatch between what citizens experience and what we collectively see what is happening, because this country is not going to be that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u59	I agree with that analysis. Anyone who has lived in a country where public services are less than in the Netherlands, knows that you may find your available income positive, but on balance it is only the question whether you have had a prosperity increase. That is a real choice, also from this cabinet: we are putting 6.5 billion in the burden relief. We think that is important, so that increases purchasing power. At the same time, we also want to continue to invest in public goods, which are also important. You could say, "Don't do that and make people feel again." But if they then have a lower pension or don't get the care they hope for, then they haven't been helped yet. As a cabinet, but perhaps also in this Chamber, we need to talk about this more often and in a more structural way, because otherwise you will get bogged down in day-to-day discussions about purchasing power. I recognize that tendency, by the way, but it is not really the right discussion. Having said that, yet just for the next two years, the CPB expects an increase of 3% in 2018 and 2.1% in 2019 for real disposable income. If you look at the future, it looks a little better. Once again, having said this: this is not the most important thing, the debate that Mr Van Rij raises is actually more important. Then I come to a number of other questions. Mr Köhler asked, among other things, whether I can confirm that every household will have to pay more €51 per year. That's what he calculated. The reduction in the tax reduction in the coalition agreement is about energy taxation. It is indeed a bit confusing: you have a tax relief that you are going to reduce. Then everyone always has to think about what that is. And then we're either gonna abolish him or not, giving you three steps of thought. That's why I understood the confusion very well. The simple answer: when we were working on repairing and looking at how to make the purchasing power picture as good as possible, we saw that everyone benefits from the tax reduction in the energy tax, including the highest income. That is precisely why we have said: it costs more if you want to help the bottom of the income building. And that's what we wanted. We also wanted to make the most of the last purchasing power plus. We have chosen not to use that €51 but to do it differently, which means that it is much more targeted at low incomes. I think that's why we didn't choose it back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u60	More specifically, my question was whether it is true, because it weighs equally heavily on all households, regardless of their income, which means that low incomes lose 0.2% in purchasing power, on top of the figures mentioned in the Macro-Economic Recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u61	They've got their purchasing power recovery in a different way. In the question of how best to influence the purchasing power of the bottom, this was one of the possibilities. The other option, for example through working with tax rebates, was ultimately more favourable, allowing you to achieve a large income effect at the bottom with less money. That is what we have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u62	I don't dispute that choice. But my question is more specific as to whether we should cut the 1.1% increase in purchasing power from the macro-economic recognition for the 20% households with the lowest incomes after this further calculation of the CPB by 0.2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u63	The answer is no. What we are doing now in the energy tax is translating through inflation. What we're not doing anymore is trying to allocate it to income groups. The planning agency asks: isn't there a larger share of what energy tax is paid by the lower group? Then you could calculate the following. At the same time, however, the same applies to all the measures we take, which are both burdensome or lightening. So far, we have chosen not to do so, and so simply to let a general picture, the same for everyone, pass through inflation rates. I think that's still for the best. The other question was the following and came from Mr Sent, sorry, Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u64	Mrs. Ester and Mr. Sent, it's going great!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u65	Once you start with confusion, it never comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u66	Family law course, maybe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u67	Can you calculate the purchasing power effects for all energy transition measures, that's what it's all about. Of that I say: we would like to do so, because that is interesting. Where does the burden-sharing come down? But when it comes to the purchasing power figures of the package of measures put down by the cabinet, it is not the case that we are now presenting a different figure following the CPB report. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with a question by Mr Köhler about the growing income disparities and whether it is true that lower incomes are less advanced than higher incomes. That's right. If you look at the estimated purchasing power, you can see that for the lowest income group it increases less than the purchasing power for the other income groups. This was also cited by others. The cabinet wants work and especially more work to be rewarding. For this reason, we are taking various measures, such as the increase of the labour discount to reduce marginal pressure specifically for people with an income between the WML and the modal income. This does not mean that we have no regard for this lowest income group. For example, in August we decided to increase the general tax rebate a little more in order to improve the purchasing power of the lowest income groups. I will not mention the argument of the gini coefficient, because that leads to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u68	I know the numbers you're talking about right now. You confirm what I have quoted from your own documents. But my question was how do you justify that? Why do you think it is a balanced or good income development if the lowest income group again in 2019, but also during the rest of the reign, falls year by year behind the other income groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u69	I think I just answered that. We think it is important that work should be rewarding and that more work should be rewarding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u70	I understand. That's why you increased the employment discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u71	Through the chairman, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u72	Mr. Chairman. I understand the Secretary of State's argument. That is why the government proposed to increase the employment discount, but this does not alter the fact that the Secretary of State could also have come within the overall framework of other compensatory measures, so that the lowest income groups did not get so much less. You deliberately didn't do that. That's just a political choice from the cabinet. I repeat my question now, I ask him for the last time: why do you choose to do so? Do you think it is fair that these lowest income groups are making less progress than the other income groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u73	I'm afraid we'll never completely agree, no matter what I say. We've talked about what's right and what's fair. They were the principles of taxation, but you will also see that, on balance, everyone is giving their own form to it. I'm trying to point out that I think it's important that the system stimulates work. I also think it is important that everyone in the Netherlands can benefit from the benefits that we now have in the economy. We have done our utmost to ensure once again that even after the government agreement in the August decision-making process the bottom side also went into the plus and came as close to the middle group as possible. But there's an end to it. We can arrange a lot of purchasing power. At the same time, we sometimes have sighing discussions about the fact that we pretend to have a two-branch system, but that with all these tax reductions it becomes very complicated. This is often because we are trying to help the people who cannot always participate in economic growth. Then we get into the problem of cashing and all kinds of other things. It is not, I think, that the cabinet did not want to see how best to do it, but there is a time when we conclude that we have presented a package as balanced as possible. And then we figured out where we are right now. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a reflection question from Mr Van de Ven. He asked me to reflect on the income effects of the income tax plan around the starting point of the top rate of €68.507. I hope that Mr Van de Ven will allow me to do a relatively limited reflection, because we can find all kinds of things. In any case, it is clear that a number of measures in this Tax Plan affect the people with an income just above that amount. This group benefits most from the introduction of the dual-disk system. If the higher disks come to lapse, the second and third disks, they logically notice the most of the reduction in the top rate. On the other hand, they also have a disadvantage, i.e. a steeper reduction of the labour discount. It'll be palpable to them. Also, the freezing of the starting point of the highest tariff disc in the years to come will be felt by this group and the tariff measure such as the deduction of certain rates................................................................................................................................................................................ So the "income fat" for the people in that group depends enormously on what deductions they have, I say. On balance, the people with a higher income see their purchasing power improve. We calculate the estimated purchasing power development for this highest income group at 1.6% in the plus, but in general reflections it is so dependent on the measures that ultimately relate to the person or household concerned that this was a bit of my reflection. But I am already into Mr Van de Ven, so he might want to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u74	Thank you very much for this explanation, Secretary of State. I understand that the percentages have now been forwarded to computing centres, in order to calculate precisely the payments. I would particularly like to draw attention to the issue of fixing at €68.507 for the long five-year period, also for the coming years. I do not want this to go away and it will become an automatism that these people are not entitled to an inflation correction in terms of their rate. That's the point. I'm not asking for the year 2019, I'm asking for the future. I hope that it may return to your thoughts when you are working on a reasonable distribution of the tax burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u75	I have heard this question very well and will take it into account in the legislative processes that follow. I wanted to say something to Mr Van Strien. In fact, he did not ask a question, but he said that the measure would be particularly negative for middle groups. Even though it wasn't a question, I'd like to say something about it. I really don't agree with that statement. For workers with an income between once and twice the income tax they have to pay is falling sharply. We can have a discussion about what a middle income is, but this is really the group that a lot of people fall into. For them, you can see that income tax is falling sharply. They benefit, for example, from the significantly reduced rates in the current second and third discs and from the extended build-up of the labour discount. Mr Van Strien is also right to say that income between €60,000 and more than a tonne is affected by the steeper reduction of the labour cut. By the way, this is far above what we call middle income. I wish it were so beautiful. On balance, however, the vast majority of these groups are going to pay less tax, thanks to the introduction of the two-wheel system and the reduction of the top rate. That is also the purpose of the cabinet, and there is nothing wrong with that. The whole range of measures must therefore be considered in conjunction and at the bottom we also see that the purchasing power developments of all income groups, but precisely those of middle incomes, are favourable. The medial purchasing power development for middle incomes is an increase of 1.6% or slightly above next year. 96% of middle-income households are expected to improve next year. That is a different picture I would like to put here than Mr Van Strien did. Mr Backer asked whether more could be done about the poverty trap in the tax field, or whether this would really amount to a lot of municipal policy. The cabinet is very focused on reducing the extremes in the marginal pressure. We were just talking about it, especially between the minimum wage and the modal income. We do this through the employment discount, the adjustment of the rent allowance and the child-related budget. This is particularly important for these people because, in the current situation, they sometimes receive fewer allowances due to higher incomes, which still makes working less profitable for them. I believe that we are taking a number of steps in this area of taxation. In addition, there are various schemes at municipal level aimed at people with low incomes or with the lowest income. Municipalities are better able than us to deliver customization in situations where there are very poignant cases. I think that was Mr. Backer's port. Where you want to have rules applicable to everyone in taxation, there can still be individual cases where there are very distressing situations. Municipalities see that before I do, let's just say. It is precisely these municipalities that are able to do something about this with specific measures. I'm gonna get a very short note in between. That was the commitment to the annual figures of marginal pressure. I was holding back for a while, but the answer I'm getting is: yes, I can. There's something else, but I think this is the most important thing. Yeah, we can, so that's what we're gonna do. Then there was a question from Mrs Sent about the estimation of tax revenues in the Millions note and the final revenue realised. That happened in some years, I thought she said more than 10 billion. She asked what we're gonna do to close that hole. The answer to this is that the Visitation Committee has looked at tax and premium receipts in terms of the difference between the estimate in the budget and the final achievements. In general terms, the committee is positive about how the Ministry of Finance estimates tax and contribution receipts, despite the fact that reality is always different from what we thought when we started to estimate. The committee also concludes that it is difficult to improve very much the method of estimation that we use for this purpose in the short term. Of course, it would be wonderful if you could, but it's very difficult to realize that. Deviations between the estimation and the final realization of tax and premium receipts will thus be inevitable. The most important factor in this is often economic growth. You're planning on it. If that economic growth turns out to be different from what you think, you can see that this has huge effects on corporate tax, for example, but also on income taxes. We are trying in our budgetary policy not to direct directly to the level of tax and premium receipts but to look at the income framework and to take it up a bit. So we are looking at the change in policy developments. We do not try to translate these exogenous measures into new policies every time, because then you get a very shocking and fluctuating government policy. Therefore, errors of estimation do not lead to any other policy. The committee has made recommendations to further improve the elements of the estimation model and procedures used in the estimation. Broadly speaking, I also want and can follow these recommendations. This kind of advice is important. I would like to point out to Mrs Sent that those specific recommendations were briefly addressed in Annex 5 of the Millions Note. Mr Ester asked me about the Ester motion on an investigation into marginal pressure, how it was incorporated into the 2019 Tax Plan and on which I intend to focus over the next three years. The motion of the Christian Union to report annually on marginal pressure is reflected in the SZW budget. I also indicated last year that it would end up there. The report on income policy is extended with the figures on marginal pressure, so that the motion can be dealt with properly. I am also working with the Minister for Social Affairs to examine the long-term possibilities for reducing this marginal pressure. I have the impression that I have said this to him before. With various measures in the coalition agreement, we are trying precisely to reduce this marginal pressure. I feel like I've answered this twice now, which is okay, but maybe it's just one too many times. Mrs Sent asked about under-spending in the public sector. How's that? Who's responsible for that? Can it be prevented? As everyone knows, the cabinet has laid down a strong investment ambition in this coalition agreement. As of 2018, we would like to spend more on important investments for us. It simply did not succeed in converting all the intentions into action and hence expenditure as early as 2018. By the way, it is important to point out that when we still have money to spend but the plans have not yet been approved, it should never be the intention to spend the money quickly. For the ambitions that were not fulfilled in 2018, room will still be made available in 2019. It has been agreed in the Cabinet that for many of these important projects money can be taken from one year to the next. I had to deal with that myself at the IRS. It is not the case that the money is plotting against the plinths on the contrary: we still have an incredibly great deal to do, but it is also true for us that if we invest in something, that investment must meet certain quality and effectiveness requirements. Last year we also found that there was under-utilisation. I hope, moreover, that this will be less in the coming years. The 30% scheme has also been requested. What companies actually benefit from this? Are these large or small enterprises? In an evaluation report, we have, moreover, paid quite a lot of attention to this. In the last year of which we have all the figures, 2015, 30% of the workers for whom the scheme was applied were employed by a company with more than 1,000 employees. 30% were therefore employed by the largest companies. That percentage was almost equal to the percentage of the number of employees in the Netherlands who work for such a company at all. So that was a logical build-up. In the same year, 40% of companies' applications were between 100 and 1,000 employees, while 23% of all employees were in these companies. A relatively large proportion of the scheme was therefore not used by the largest companies but by the companies between 100 and 1,000 employees. Businesses between 10 and 100 employees, i.e. the smaller SMEs, again used the 30% scheme proportionally. More than 20% of the scheme was used there. To sum up, despite the reduction in the duration of the 30% scheme, most companies will suffer in the same proportion and it is not specifically intended to bully large or small businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u76	I didn't suggest that at all. I've seen all these figures, and I've also studied that report. I was concerned about whether this scheme would also benefit companies that the Netherlands should have in the future: start-ups, scale-ups, companies that have a high priority for sustainability, social entrepreneurship. That's the type of company I had in mind when I asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u77	Okay. But then it is good to say that the 30% scheme is mainly intended to compensate for costs if you go from one country to another. That was one of the reasons we were wondering: do you have to have eight years? You can measure it, too. On the basis of vouchers and declarations, you may allocate those costs. We have made this a lump sum. It's a little tricky to focus that 30% scheme on very innovative companies, because in the end it's an approach to the costs you have as an employee to leave. If we look very specifically at the figures, so the impact on young companies, innovative start-ups and scale-ups, then I don't have a separate breakdown. I have a breakdown by company size but not by a company's activities. I do not suspect that they are less affected by this, but that many of the innovative companies in general, even though they are small, also make use of the expertise of people coming from other countries. For example, we know that in Limburg several smaller companies have made very active use of expertise from Asia. Those people were therefore also eligible for the 30% scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u78	Following on from Mr Ester's question: quite a few letters have been sent to us, from which the feeling is very strong, apart from income relationships, justice, measure and so on, that an expectation has been aroused by the Dutch tax authority which is now being abolished. What is the nature of this commitment to give this impression? So I'm talking about legality. That seems like a typical question for this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u79	People have received letters in the past, which have never been guaranteed that you could always benefit from the 30% scheme. But in those letters from the past, people found enough clues to allow it to continue in the Netherlands, for example. We have already reduced this scheme: it was long-term, then eight years and now five years. But there is no right, as no one is entitled to a certain amount of income tax or is entitled to a certain amount of deduction. In the end, it is the legislator who is that we all decide whether or not we still think that is logical. There has never been any question of a kind of ruling being concluded with advance certainty: whatever happens, you will be given a 30% rule over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u80	Finally, a small factual question. Are there, therefore, any companies that compensate for the loss of income? Is the Secretary of State aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u81	That's true, too. We have already shared once before that there are companies, including really large companies, that choose not to make the remuneration of their employees dependent on whether the government intervenes or not. Of course, I cannot mention company names, but let me put it this way: the companies that care for a lot of expats in the Netherlands are also using this scheme. So they actually say: it's nice if the government cooperates and arranges a tax-free allowance for at least five years, but we want these people to stay for eight years, so we'll take that difference in tax burden on our own account. At least that doesn't affect their employees. That is true, I say to Mr Backer. Then there was another question asked by Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u82	I had another question about the previous point. The Secretary of State calls it a flat-rate scheme, but to a very large extent it is used by people with huge salaries at the top of the business community. Then you really can't talk about a reasonable cost. For those costs, it doesn't matter at all what salary category you're in. So there really are people going home with millions of dollars because of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u83	I can't go into individual cases. Mr Van Strien may be referring to this. But it is indeed independent of income at the moment. This is not an arrangement that stops at €50,000. That's right. There were also questions about the voluntary scheme, to mention a very different category of people than Mr Van Strien mentioned. Mr Ester asked if I could reconsider indexing the maximum amounts of the voluntary scheme. That is an interesting question in itself. I fully agree with Mr Ester that volunteering is extremely important in our society. That should be absolutely clear, because that is without doubt the case. This is also apparent from the increase in the amounts that can be reimbursed duty-free. The cabinet has increased the ceilings per calendar year from €1,500 to €1,700 and the monthly ceilings from €150 to €170. In addition, we have just agreed to increase the hourly rate from €4.50 to €5.00 in the House of Representatives. This is not done by law, but by regulation. So you can also use this scheme by the hour without receipts. However, the request for indexation should take into account the background of the voluntary scheme. It has been set up to meet the need for a clear regime for the provision of low cost compensation to volunteers. The starting point of the voluntary scheme has always been that voluntary work should really be voluntary and that it should not be about work that might otherwise be compulsory or paid for. It must therefore be non-compulsory and unpaid work. The voluntary scheme is also not intended to provide the highest possible free financial incentive, where you can still talk about automatic indexation in other schemes in order, for example, to follow trends in developments due to your disposable income. There are all kinds of arrangements for this. In the case of a voluntary allowance, this is different because it concerns unpaid and unpaid work. By the way, I immediately note that if a volunteer receives a higher remuneration for incurred expenses than the standard amounts, they can still be reimbursed without tax. You can do that if you make real costs, for example because you have to take a train from A to B. In addition, in general terms, we want to be careful not to link too many amounts of money to inflation in the state budget. This leads to a procyclical budget, whereby, at the time prices rise, many expenditure schemes become more expensive, including these schemes, which instantly leads to even greater expenditure. We want to break that spiral. Moreover, indexing costs money, because it means that those costs go through year in, year out. So despite what Mr Ester is trying to achieve, my answer is that we have just taken three measures that aim precisely at achieving this. Then I don't even talk about the ability to do so. I promised never to use that word again. But the volunteer is now at €1,500 or €1,700 and if we would index that annually, you have to explain that this year's voluntary scheme amounts to €1,531.28. So despite looking at it with sympathy, I don't think it's wise to index the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u84	The Secretary of State needs a lot of phrases for something that is very small in financial terms. We are talking about ten times nothing for a group that does very important work in the Netherlands. To be honest, your answer disappoints me a little. I will come back to it in the second term, because there is, of course, also some late maintenance. You are talking about the new regime, and I have every respect for it, but nothing has been done with it since 2006, which has not been increased or anything. But I hear what you're saying, and I'd like to return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u85	That's good. Mrs Sent then asked about the proposal for the sickness benefit, namely that the benefit of the sick without work should no longer be taken into account for the amount of the reduction in work and, moreover, the IACK. She asked me to explain that measure again. Actually, the answer to that is simple. In my opinion, then, the moment you're unemployed and get sick, you'd get an income rise. But that's not what you want. Quite apart from what an employment discount was once intended for, namely a remuneration for costs you incur for work and which has now been shifted to something that should promote employment participation, why would you want to give that reduction to someone who is ill? You can say that because of the purchasing power element it is a tough measure. I understand that, and we have to do something about it. But if you look at the principle behind it, I do not think it is right for people who have ended up in the WW, with all the misfortune that is attached to it, to receive a higher benefit at the time they call in sick than when they are simply unemployed. That's not the right policy. However, I would like to say straight away that we have opted for transitional rights. There is therefore no one who is no longer receiving this benefit because of this measure; all existing cases are protected. Moreover, for new cases, the new measure will not apply until 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u86	I understand the logic of the Secretary of State who is presenting it here. I heard him say something about the purchasing power effects and that we need to do something about it. What can we expect from him in purchasing power repair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u87	Purchasing power effects are, of course, about groups as a whole. We never take individual purchasing power measures; it is about the total. This may mean that people benefit relatively much from the measure. Unfortunately, some people will also benefit less from the measure. That can't be solved in all cases. It is not that I can do individual purchasing power repairs; that goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u88	But does the Secretary of State agree with me that in absolute terms the decline in income for people in the disease law is really very large?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u89	The people who are now in the ZW do not go backwards in income because the existing cases are just being honored. So it's not like someone who's got something now isn't gonna have anything anymore. We're only gonna check in new cases on how we handled that. It is quite strange that you get some kind of reward when you get sick, while you are in the WW. We want to change that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u90	Mrs. Sent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u91	However, for these new cases, the decline is absolutely significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u92	It can't be. In a new case, there can be no deterioration, because in new cases different rules apply. That's right. Mr. Chairman. It's a lot of subjects, but I'm almost at the end of my first block. That was also by far the block of most measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u93	Well, let me tell you, I'm gonna suspend for dinner break at 7:00 anyway. Then everyone's ready to take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u94	Yes. I'll increase my pace even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u95	I'm not saying you have to be ready, but I'll suspend at 7:00 anyway. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u96	Okay, then I'm just gonna keep going until the clock strikes seven. Mr Schalk asked what VAT rate applies when services or goods are delivered in December but the invoice is not sent until January or in the situation that an invoice is sent in 2018, but is not paid until 2019. That's a wonderful question. I have a very long answer to that, but I will try to give a summary. Depending on whether you have a cash system or an invoice system and depending on who you send that invoice to, a co-entrepreneur or a private individual, there are different rules for that. Those rules are described neatly on the website of the service. In both cases it is therefore possible to transfer the account to the following year, but it is a bit dependent on the system. I can make all that technical here, but there are rules for that. Again, it depends on whether you have an invoice system or a cash system. Mr Ten Hoeve also had a question about VAT. He asked me if I would be willing to think about a uniform VAT rate, which, for example, excludes foodstuffs. That is a well-known theme and that question has also been raised earlier. I recognize the benefits of a uniform VAT rate, but that's not just anything. The cabinet does not yet provide for its introduction, but I can imagine that we will continue to talk about this in the coming years, because that could make it extremely simple. At the same time, there are many income effects. For example, we are talking about a measure where VAT goes from 6% to 9%. There are, quite rightly, many questions about that. What does that mean? The moment you go to a uniform rate, which by the way would be wonderful from the system, that means that you will increase even more categories of goods. So that's not about one night of ice cream. I do not think that standardisation is yet to be discussed in this cabinet period, but I understand that Mr Ten Hoeve is asking for this once again and that we should never forget that system simplifications are worth thinking about. Mr Backer asked about the reserves that are being built up in box 2 at the dga's. Can old reserves be respected in the correction of the box 2 tariff? That is a good question about the reasonableness of the cabinet's choice not to compartmentalize those old profit reserves, as it is so well called. You really have to smash walls between the annual profits to know what year it's coming from. You have to follow that in a number of years. The lack of compartmentalisation of the old profit reserves lies in the operational perspective of dga, in its budgetary effects if you did and in the complexity of the measures. There are actually three reasons why we have not done so. Budgetary costs a lot of money if you want to do it differently. We have not made that choice. The complexity increase has to do with the compartmentalisation and the fact that you have to keep track of exactly what you've earned each time. Especially if you have multiple dgas in an e.g., you have to allocate them and the Tax Administration has to keep following them that year. Actually, we soon found out that it's almost impossible to do that right. Moreover, the dga has an action perspective; that is an important argument. The measure will not start until 2020. If the dga wants to pay the reserves at the old rate, he can still do so for over a year. And since we had the intention, it could even last another year and a half. So it's not like he's sitting duck, to use Dutch for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u97	I have a brief question about that, because I find that a little too easy to say. This concerns in particular the dgas which, for example, held the reserves in the company for decades, so that those reserves and that money could be reinvested in the company. They are not waiting at all for dividends to be paid out at a rate of 25%. They want to maintain sound solvency. They feel a little caught after all. They have paid 48% corporate tax in the past if we go back a long way. That's the heart of the criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u98	You can explain it differently. As a result of the current tax system, dga benefits from an opportunity to postpone long-term box 2 taxes on profit reserves and to reinvest these reserves instead. In the past, moreover, there has been a massive increase in payments if the DGA rates went down. I myself have never been entirely convinced of the argument that they have been neatly saved up all these years to use for investment later, I say honestly. Some of them are also fiscally motivated. That is not allowed and it is not punishable, but it is not the case that these people are actually caught with it. I really don't see it that way. Moreover, dga benefits significantly from the measures we are taking further. In addition to the further reduction of the Vpb tariff to 15%, the dga also benefits from the tariff reduction in box 1. I would also point out that dga benefits from not compartmentalising silent reserves and goodwill in the reduction of the rate of corporation tax, because it also benefits him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u99	We have already addressed this in detail in the written questions. The position you are taking is clear. I have already agreed to this, in the sense that the discussion has just ended at a certain point. You do not want to compartmentalize for implementing technical reasons. My only request is to explain this correctly once again, because in the written reply you have made a bit of a fool of yourself from that. You say: we never do that to special target groups. I don't care about the people who invest. I am concerned about the real entrepreneurs who used that money to invest in the company, which creates jobs. There's a piece of pain there. Other than that, it's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u100	And so it is. I certainly didn't mean to get rid of it with a whip-off, so the next time we explain this, we'll spend a little more time on it. I can imagine that we still do not fully agree, but well, it is as it is. Mr. Chairman. I think I still have time for the block of locational climate, if you still feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u101	Sure. I think that's a lovely subject. Delicious!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u102	Then we'll go on with that. I will try to read out as many articles of law as possible, because I know that the President sleeps very well. I think I've already kept the general round, so I'm going straight to the individual questions. Mr Backer asks whether I share his analysis that the predictability and stability of legislation and justice and reliable justice are important aspects for an attractive locational environment. He also asked me if I would encourage the Minister of Justice to take that up, because it would have been more difficult to do so. I wasn't there, so I don't know, but I'll pass on the request. I fully share Mr Backer's analysis and I tried to tell you that at the beginning. The location climate really depends on a lot of different factors. Taxation is important, but only one part. A well-functioning labour market, a highly skilled workforce, a good infrastructure, a well-functioning justice system and the rule of law all ensure predictability and stability of legislation and reliable justice. All this is important in a country to bring companies and people to them and to allow people to be active. We are therefore well aware of this as a cabinet. In a way, therefore, I should not have to draw my colleague's attention to this, but I will, for the sake of certainty, do so. Moreover, I would also like to say that the Minister of EZK is responsible for the locational environment in the broad sense. He will also send a letter to the Chamber on behalf of me and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation this year on the locational climate as a whole. Fiscality is only a part of it, and so there will be a broader perspective on the locational environment, but that is mainly from the Minister of EZK. Mr Ester asked about the locational environment in the light of the failure to abolish the dividend tax. I will not go into this very extensively. So we're not gonna do that. It is true, however, that we have taken new measures instead of this measure, which, of course, also have an impact on the locational environment. That is never the same as the measure we had in mind first. In an earlier consideration, we have also said that the alternative package that is now before us is a little more focused on all companies in the Netherlands. When we were talking about abolishing the dividend tax, it was more specifically about maintaining and attracting headquarters and other large companies. On balance, I think that what we now have for the location climate is an important step forward, also because we had some money left for start-ups and scale-ups, for example. We have been able to do a little more in terms of innovation and around SMEs, for example the cost regulation. In short, I think that a good locational climate is not just about attracting headquarters. That's important, but it's also in all the other things. Then it is not just about bringing companies from outside the Netherlands here, but also about the companies that are already here, are active and want to be an entrepreneur here. It's also part of the locational climate. The whole idea that it always has to come in from the outside isn't everything. It is also important that we do not want companies to go outside from the inside and that we have an eye for the companies that are already there. Many companies do not want to leave at all and do want to have an attractive location climate. We'll take care of it. I believe that the measures that come out of the dividend tax review have helped to help the business environment as well. One more thing: the Wbso. Especially for start-ups and scale-ups, this is an important scheme, perhaps even more so than the Innovation Box, which is more important for the larger companies. So we've really done a lot. I do not think I am, on balance, dissatisfied with the package that is now before me. Mr Backer asked if there were other lessons to be learned about decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u103	Mrs. Sent will be here first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u104	I had asked for a response from the Secretary of State to the CPB study on the Innovation Box. Is he gonna talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u105	I think I'm going to talk about that. And if it isn't, I'm sure she'll remind me. What have we learned from it? Our Prime Minister always says so beautifully that you shouldn't review trials. I don't think that's what I'm supposed to do. I think there should always be support for the establishment of the tax system. Someone said it's some kind of contract between the person who has to pay taxes and the person who imposes taxes. There must be trust and understanding. Nor can I come up with a tax package for which there are 16 million people. Unfortunately, that's impossible. But it is good to keep listening to what is happening in society. I do not think there was a very broad support for this measure in society, if we have followed the newspapers in this way. But other than that, it's hard to learn lessons. In any case, I am pleased that we have a new package that helps the locational environment and that perhaps even more is aimed at SMEs. That also had the idea that it was not sufficiently heard. That image was very strong and I was very sorry to hear that. From now on, we must try even harder to indicate that we also want to focus our tax system on those others who participate in Dutch society. That is my answer to that question. He also asked more specifically about legal sustainability. He already realized that I could not say too much about some specific cases. In the debate on dividend taxation, I have already said that a lot of companies have been in court. This therefore means that the dividend tax was not undisputedly good. There are legal questions to be asked. We discussed the Danish judgment and the impact of the Danish judgment on the Dutch system. That could not be translated one-on-one, because the situation is different there. Now there is again a more specific judgment, which could also give an insight into the dividend tax. Ultimately, the taxation of dividends is in principle sustainable and legally permissible. That tax does not necessarily come to an end sooner or later. But it's certainly not out of the question. There are sufficient court rulings on EU law that require legal adjustments in the future. Without going into too much detail about the specific cases, I have hoped to give some explanation here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u106	That's what I was looking for. This is an important statement. I asked because the argument that we should get rid of it, because it would no longer be sustainable, has been used so often. In fact, you refute that argument. I am sufficiently satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u107	Then Mrs. Sent will follow. She asks: what does the ordinary Dutchman have to gain from the reduction of the Vpb tariffs? We were talking about lowering the Vpb rates. We have had this discussion before, even when it was about multinationals and the citizen. Sometimes people draw a very hard line somewhere: what is good for one group will not be good for the other group. I'm looking at that exactly opposite. We have also talked about the difference between large companies and small businesses today. Often these interests go hand in hand. A successful Dutch business is good for the Dutch economy and that is also good for the purchasing power of the citizens. Moreover, this reduction in the Vpb rate is accompanied by a lot of fundamentalists. I would once again like to take away the idea that they are just presents, because there are a lot of basic measures on the other side. On balance, they are beneficial to SMEs. You can expect that if things go well for them, that ultimately in pricing for the Dutch consumer does not have to be adversely affected at all. I'm trying to get away from the idea that what's good for one is bad for the other. Those effects can go hand in hand. We see positive effects for the Dutch citizen of a lower Vpb rate. With regard to that reduction in Vpb rates, questions have also been asked about the race to the bottom. Mr Köhler and Mr Backer asked for this. One found that that is the case, the other doubted that and said: that is not really the case. I do not recognise that development in which a race to the bottom is outlined, either. Internationally, there is a trend in which countries reduce tax rates but at the same time broaden their tax base. The Netherlands does the same. So that's not a race to the bottom. It was rightly noted that the Vpb rates and total tax receipts in GDP are surprisingly constant. Mr Van de Ven said that the Vpb came from a much higher percentage. Now that seems much lower. Yet, on balance, you don't see the percentage decrease at all. This is not only the case with GDP, but also with relative revenue in the tax mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u108	Could the Secretary of State also comment on my argument that these figures are correct, but that if capital income accounts for an increasing proportion of the GDP, there is still a relative tax reduction for companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u109	Companies experience the effective tax rate. That's the percentage they pay on the base. As in the past, we want a relatively low rate, with a broad base. The Dutch model was perhaps based twenty years ago on a relatively high rate with a lot of exceptions and ground-breakers. I think what the cabinet is doing now is more sensible. It's a clear rate. At this rate, the effective rate is closer to the nominal rate. That difference was too great in the past, I thought. It also led to all kinds of uncertainties: why some companies did and why not other companies? I would prefer to go to a transparent system, with a low rate accompanied by a broadening of the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u110	That's not an answer to my question, but that's okay. It's an interesting argument, though. I hear the Secretary of State actually suggest that it's just a disk of a lower rate. As if those foreign companies only look at that and then come to the Netherlands. And that will be fully compensated by a broader basis. But of course it's not like that. Even in your calculations, in which you count everything until 2028 to broaden the base, there is still a reduction. Or are you saying that these companies are not going to pay less Vpb in the Netherlands at all, but that they should come here anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u111	That's right. Of course, you have to look at the burden relief in a structural way and then you cannot, as Mr Köhler did a bit secretly, pull out 2021. The measures we are taking have structural effects. Broadening the base is about 3.6 billion, while the tariff reduction is 500 million higher. On balance, there is 500 million relief for businesses in this area. By the way, if you compare that with the cost reduction of 6.5 billion that we give the citizen, that is not too much. We wanted everyone to get on with it. The same applies to companies. I'm gonna go over the race to the bottom. 20.5% Vpb rate in 2021 I would not like to mention the soil. In fact, it is quite close to the European average. So for that reason, too, I don't see directly the comparison with a race to the bottom. Mr Binnema asked for a justification for the reduction of corporate tax rates which would show that this would contribute to the business environment. He also wondered whether other factors, such as quality of life, infrastructure and educational attainment, were not considered to be much more important. I had not yet replied explicitly to him, but I had already answered indirectly twice. Of course, a lot of elements are important if you want to establish yourself as a company or become active in the Netherlands. This also applies to entrepreneurship. The Vpb is only one of the measures that are important for SMEs and large businesses. All these other factors are also important. I agree with Mr Binnema. That is why the cabinet remains committed to improving the locational environment in a broad sense, and not just to the fiscal locational environment. Mr Binnema also asked for the European average. That Dutch tariff sounded nice, but that European average was quite influenced by the countries that have a low rate. He forgot, of course, to say that a number of countries still have a much higher rate than we do. But we can look at the countries we can best measure with. I refer to the Vpb rates that Sweden, Denmark and Finland have: 22%, 22% and 20%. So we are not very far from that. We are talking about nominal rates. But the United Kingdom has a profit tax rate of 19%. That's not unimportant either. That's a little below ours again. So, apart from the fact that there is also a broadening of the base in addition to the nominal rates, we really are not completely out of line with our Vpb tariff. And then I come to Mrs Sent's question about the Innovation Box. What lessons do I draw from the study by the Central Planning Bureau on the Innovation Box? The cabinet attaches considerable importance to promoting and maintaining an attractive locational environment, especially for innovative companies. Within taxation, the aim is to promote innovation by reducing the wage tax on research and development work, as it is so well known, and in the Vpb we do so mainly through the Innovation Box. The Planning Office notes that the Innovation Box is worsening the competitive position for newcomers. That is the argument that Mrs Sent quoted, I think. Like the planning office, the cabinet supports the importance of dynamic competition. We think that's important. Therefore, the S&D reduction and the Innovation Box are in principle open to all companies, which are free in their own R&D strategy. Furthermore, this overall picture shows that although large business is the most important user of the Innovation Box, that is also where SMEs are the largest user of the budget when it comes to the S&D reduction. In short, we have several facilities. At the Vpb it is more widespread, but with the Wbso it is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises that are the largest user. So you can see that different instruments support the same thing, but can indeed lead to other incentives at company level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u112	Just a little more specific about that Innovation Box. The CPB concludes that it is not effective and makes little contribution to economic innovation. Can the Secretary of State put forward other arguments for maintaining the Innovation Box?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u113	We do not entirely agree. We do believe that the Innovation Box can also be beneficial when it comes to large innovative companies in the Netherlands. Many other countries have the same kind of box. We do not want all innovative companies to go down two countries further, so we really think it is important. Moreover, we are aware that there is always something to gain from effectiveness in both schemes. So we are adapting the Wbso again. Sooner or later, I am not ruling out that there can be adjustments around the Innovation Box, so that we can focus them more on what it was meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u114	Mrs. Sent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u115	And what specific lessons would the Secretary of State draw from the CPB's analysis of the Innovation Box?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u116	I don't have those specific lessons yet. Nor is it the case that I say that we are going to amend it immediately. We have no plans for that as a cabinet. I tried to indicate that it may be that, over time, it is concluded that the effect of measures that were very effective at the beginning to bring certain companies to the Netherlands or to keep them in the Netherlands will be reduced. That is with many regulations, and we are evaluating them. We are going to learn lessons from this evaluation, and that will be no different from this scheme. But it is not that I say specifically that this and this should be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u117	And when will the evaluation of the Innovation Box take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u118	I don't know, but I'm sure I can figure that out for the second term, to give you an answer to that. Then there was an interesting question from Mr Backer about the tax strategy. He said that in the UK large entrepreneurs are obliged to publish their tax strategy. He asked if that would be something for the Netherlands. Yeah, that's the answer. In March of this year, a mandate disclosure directive was adopted, which obliges companies and tax advisors to explicitly appoint the latter in this case..... to report potentially aggressive tax structures to all Member States involved. This is a warning system that informs tax administrations about potential abuse situations. Moreover, due to this mandate disclosure, there will also be a preventive effect on the number of potentially aggressive tax opinions, and that is the idea that lives with Mr Backer, I think. I think it is important to be clear about that as well. The proposal will have to be implemented in national legislation from 1 January 2020. In order to prevent possible abuse, potentially aggressive structures should be reported from the moment of the announcement of the Directive, which is 25 June 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u119	A quick question. I thought Mr. Backer meant otherwise, but if he doesn't, he's gonna have to correct me. In the United Kingdom, I think you also have an obligation to explain in the annual accounts what your company's contribution is to taxes, both the income tax and other taxes, both in your own country and elsewhere. This is now happening on a voluntary basis in the Netherlands. Some companies are leading the way when it comes to corporate social responsibility, others are not. Reference was made, inter alia, to the VBDO Transparency Index. That would be a very interesting point of view, but that is more in the area of governance. The mandate disclosure is simply an EU directive that needs to be implemented. That's fine, but I think this goes a step further and this has a lot more to do with what you as a company show for transparency in the financial statements; what you do with taxes and what your tax policy is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u120	I did understand that it was more about aggressive tax planning and what you're doing about it. I thought this directive does exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u121	This is a case of great minds... Mr Van Rij's interpretation was also mine. It concerns both subjects. I started from the point of view of the governance code, but frankly I was not yet aware that this directive is coming. That's good to know. I think both issues are important, because it is not necessarily about aggressive strategies or avoidance, and you can also do it separately from that directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u122	No, I get it. My answer may have been too narrowing. I think you're asking us whether we should oblige ourselves to do that. I know, from the financial statements I wrote myself earlier, that companies that are working to give as much clarity as possible about their CSR policies or their corporate accountability, get a lot of appreciation from their investors. You can expect companies to do that themselves, especially given the discussions we're having today. In fact, the question is whether they still have to meet conditions specifically for taxes. I'd like to think about that. In itself, I understand the thought well. At the same time, we must be careful that it does not become an obligation to comply with. Next thing you know, you'll get a checkbox. I actually think it should come from companies themselves, on the basis of their desire to produce a good annual report, but I do find it interesting to give some information. In the case of country-by-country reporting that we are working on in the OECD, such things will eventually end up in directives, but the question is whether we should anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u123	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm looking at the clock. I told you I wanted to suspend dinner at 7:00. I have the feeling that you still have a lot to do with this establishment policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u124	No, that's three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u125	Can you do that in ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u126	Oh, yeah. As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u127	Then I'll tell the Chamber if you have any questions, save them for the second term. Then I'll give you the opportunity to finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u128	There were questions from Mr Ester and Mr Van Rij about international tax cooperation around the ATAD directives. Information exchange is already taking place between the tax administrations of the different Member States. This exchange of information is also based on the previously implemented directives and the need for services to cooperate. That's what you need to catch bad guys. In implementing the new regulation based on these ATAD Directives, the Tax Administration will be able to use existing information and exchange channels. The Dutch Tax Administration is always very active in this, more active than many of our European partners. The new directives, such as the mandate disclosure directive I mentioned just now, also make a huge contribution to the exchange of information. The Tax Administration is examining what is necessary to enable this exchange of information, for example on the basis of these new directives, and will do so for other legislation. I am not quite sure whether other countries are as active as we are, but we encourage them, and by asking questions to these countries, you can hope that these countries will also ask questions to us. We sometimes notice that we have more questions about other countries or services than other services for us. Anyway, the point is clear and important. Mr Ester also asked how it is foreseen that EU countries will be able to learn from each other in the implementation of these ATAD directives. As you know, the ATAD Directive should enter into force from 1 January 2019 and ATAD 2 next year. It is an incorporation of national laws which may differ from one Member State to another, not too different, but a little different. The implementation process is therefore not the same everywhere. So we will have to understand how other countries are doing and have experienced this in the coming year. In the regular discussions between our services and our legislators, we will also have to test it. But right now, I can't say anything about that, because we're still in the middle of that process. Then there is Mr Ester's question about the anonymised rulings. How exactly is that going to be poured into the barrel? As you know, I have sent a letter and announced what changes we foresee in the ruling practice. In the past we described the content. The question has been asked: can you not give anonymized per ruling a kind of summary, as is done in Belgium, so that you can make it transparent at some point, shortly after that ruling has been given? I've already promised the Chamber I'd do it this way. So the best comparison is the way they do it in Belgium right now. Although the content may be different, the interpretation, the transparency, is the same. The exact details, how we are going to do this in the Netherlands and the way in which the summaries will be made public are still being discussed. In any case, my ambition is to have and implement all these changes by 1 July of next year. A debate is scheduled with the House of Representatives on this same practice on 30 January, so we might take a few more things into account. The final question was about the megatech companies that market products that have hitherto been mainly reserved for more traditional service providers. That includes tax treatment. I think we've talked about it before: the Vpb is 100 years old. I once gave the example that the boys were still in sailor suits when we made the Vpb. Then you just bought your stuff at the store around the corner. The world has really changed. We have no choice but to do so for this new digital world, with everything that comes with it. We have a duty, also in the Netherlands, to think hard about it, no matter what happens in Europe and in the OECD. I think what the OECD is doing is the best way. That organization, I say to Mr Van Rij, is looking more at the Vpb and its share of profits. How are you going to calculate that, where is that value really created? If so, then the turnover tax. At the same time, it is so difficult to do so in the short term, and the OECD believes that it will be able to make a proposal by 2020; we still need to implement this, as we said in Europe: perhaps we should start now. We do that on the basis of a turnover, but that's not ideal. That is not really where we want to land and come out, but we do not want these companies to be able to gain relatively easily a larger market share in the traditional economy in the coming years. So we really want to do something. In this respect, I do not think it is necessarily a good thing that the Franco-German proposal reduces the basis of the European digitals, but if the new proposal helps to get out of Europe more quickly, then there is a risk that 28 countries will make proposals themselves to tax it, which would create a patchwork; then I think we are even further away from home. Mr. Chairman. In my view, these were the answers to the questions in the climate of establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-12.u130	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 8:00. At 8 p.m. we will continue with the agricultural budget. I see that that will take about 45 minutes, which is on the short side of the road, or up to an hour, but I hope 45 minutes, so I will tell the Secretary of State and the Minister that we will continue at around 8:45 or 9:00 p.m. Maybe an hour will give you enough time to finish your first term, Mr. Secretary of State. I will try to control the Members of Parliament, because I would still like to end this debate on 11 December. I hear the Secretary of State say he's gonna help me with that very hard; thank you very much. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
