ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the PvdA, for his question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I welcome and who replaces the Minister for Finance. The question is about ABN employees bypassing the bonus law. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. EUR 15 million would have divided 16 ABN AMRO employees over the last two years. 15 million euros. The Netherlands has the strictest bonus legislation in the European Union, and I even think of the whole world, because the misery of self-interest, the self-interest of bankers, has contributed to the causes of the financial crisis. That's why we passed that law in the Lower House. I have the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, who is replacing the Minister for Finance. Is it true that 16 ABN AMRO employees distributed 15 million euros? Is that right? My second question is: when did the Minister of Finance hear about this? The third question is: what did he do? If I may believe the Volkskrant, the Minister has not interfered, but how can it be dealt with in such a way against the spirit of his own law by a bank which is still majority in state hands? What did the Minister do? Did he even perform? I'm a little suspicious about that, because the first bill that the Minister of Finance announced was a relaxation of the bonus law for flash traders. So what did the Minister do? Did he talk to ABN AMRO? Has there been any action on this? Finally, Mr President. Is this the only case at ABN AMRO or are there any other such private equity structures in the bank, with which employees also circumvent the bonus law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I am indeed here to replace the Minister for Finance, who is in Brussels today at the Eurogroup Ecofin meeting. So, unfortunately, he couldn't be here today. As his replacement, I am now in Question Time for the third time for questions on remuneration issues. It's interesting that every time these issues are going on, I get to act as his replacement. Firstly, Mr Nijboer is right that the Netherlands has the strictest bonus legislation in the European Union. Is it true that 16 employees have distributed EUR 15 million? Yeah, that's right. This has to do with a participation scheme, whereby ABN AMRO employees, in addition to being employees, also invested in participations. Those shares have made a profit and that has led to a payout as a kind of dividend on the employee's investment. ABN AMRO has found that this is not in line with the remuneration policy of the bank they want to be. Therefore, in addition to all kinds of strategic considerations, the bank has decided to discontinue these activities and abandon those holdings. Two weeks ago, I believe, ABN AMRO's decision to renounce these holdings came out. As far as I know, the Minister of Finance has had no role in this. The Minister of Finance is, of course, responsible for the remuneration of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the agreements made with the Chamber on the NLFI, the equity management company that manages ABN AMRO's shares. ABN AMRO has therefore itself come to the conclusion that this no longer fits in with modern remuneration policies and has therefore abandoned these activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	The ABN itself decided that; I read that in the newspaper. But the question is whether the Minister himself, Minister Hoekstra, should have acted actively when he heard this. If the bank itself concludes that this is not in line with its responsible remuneration policy, which is also laid down in the articles of association, which the Court itself has included in those articles of association, then the Minister should not get rid of it simply by saying that he is about the board of directors, but not about the employees? No, as a shareholder, you are responsible for the overall remuneration policy and this is bypassing the bonus legislation. Does the Minister share that, with this behaviour, by having participations purchased by a bank's own employees and then making huge dividends payments, the current strict bonus legislation has been bypassed by ABN? And is the Minister also prepared to tighten up the law so that it is explicitly prohibited? Because ABN has now returned to its path. I do not yet have an answer to the question as to whether this is more common with ABN AMRO. Does this happen more often with other banks? For not every bank is eager to act in the spirit of the law; we know all too well. They come up with new constructions every time to circumvent the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	One nuance in advance of Mr Nijboer's question. The question is indeed whether this is remuneration or participation in investment. The money that has been paid is, as it were, a dividend on those investments. Having said that, ABN AMRO itself found that it is indeed a complicated story, given the controlled remuneration policy that we know in the Netherlands. That has been one of the considerations for ABN AMRO itself to renounce this. ABN AMRO has therefore itself found that such a remuneration structure does not correspond to the type of bank ABN AMRO wants to be and has taken measures. Other banks.... another question from Mr Nijboer.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... They have also taken these decisions. There is therefore no need for legislative action in this context. However, the Minister for Finance, who has already promised this to your Chamber, is currently examining whether there can be a possible tightening up of the rules on fixed remuneration and also that he is in agreement with the sector on tightening up the possibility of derogating from the bonus ceiling for non-cao staff. Mr Nijboer's final question, whether this is the only case or whether there are any more cases, I can honestly not answer; I do not know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	To that last question I would like to receive further written answers, as to whether this is the only case. It is, of course, a question of whether the risks within a bank are increasing? Whether you do the reward through a dividend payment, in bonuses, in options or in all kinds of other constructions, that is of course not the spirit and purpose of the law at all. So I think the Minister, this cabinet, is too easy to step over this bypass of bonus legislation. I also think that the cabinet should take a stand and say: it may have been legal what ABN did, but we do not want it, and we certainly do not want foreign banks, other banks in the Netherlands, to show that behavior. If the Minister doesn't come up with a bill, we'll have to do it in the Chamber. I call on the Minister once again to take action on this, because we are already ten years after Lehman and this is still the case with the state bank of the Netherlands, a bank whose shares are majority in state hands. This shows that culture in the financial sector is far from healthy. That requires tough legislation in order to resist it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Nijboer and I agree that the Netherlands has the strictest bonus legislation in Europe, also by its predecessor, Mr Dijsselbloem, of course, when we were together the Finance spokesmen and were in the Chamber. The second point, in this case, is of course complicated because it is really an investment decision of employees who also invest their own money in ABN AMRO's holdings. Mr Nijboer is right, however, that it is not in the spirit of the rules on remuneration. This is also the observation that ABN AMRO itself made. ABN AMRO has therefore decided to place this participation at a distance and to reject it. Once again, the Minister of Finance is in the process of promising this to your Chamber before to identify possible tightening of the remuneration rules with regard to fixed remuneration and also for non-cao staff. He strives to inform your Chamber of this matter before the end of this year. I think that would be a good opportunity to take this up for Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	I have a question for the Minister about the derogations. The Minister points out that towards the end of the year it is likely to become clear whether there will be any need for regulatory changes. But doesn't this also have to do with monitoring the exceptions that the regulation has and that there is too little control of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr President, may I ask another question? What derogation is Mr Ronnes talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	That's actually more of an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	It concerns the exceptions to the remuneration legislation to pay people extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	I happen to have done this law myself in a different capacity, as a Member of Parliament. As a result, I know that there are a lot of exceptions. It does not include subsidiaries of foreign banks. Also subsidiaries of Dutch banks operating abroad are not covered by the bonus legislation. This is, of course, due to the fact that the Netherlands has adopted more stringent bonus legislation than other European countries. That makes this kind of exception possible every time; let me put it this way. In dealing with this law with Mr Dijsselbloem in the previous period, critical questions have also been asked. Then how are you gonna maintain it? Do you have a sharp blade that allows you to distinguish? I honestly do not know what the Minister of Finance has promised to the Chamber about the letter coming before the end of the year, but I will pass on this question from Mr Ronnes to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	ABN again. Once again, the bank we all own. This time it's about bonuses, but rather we've seen the bank steal through dividend stripes from the Tax Administration for years. So this is a bank that we all own half of. That too was part of ABN.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u17	Shouldn't the bank be turned inside out to really tackle this kind of aggressive part of the bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. It's not my territory, so I'm not aware in detail of what happened at ABN AMRO in recent years. My image of some distance and from my knowledge of the previous period, is that under the new ABN AMRO summit there has really been a different direction. This decision also fits in with that, namely that these holdings are placed at a distance because they are no longer in line with.This is a quote from ABN AMRO itself, the bank that ABN AMRO wants to be. Against this background, I therefore believe that this is a positive step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Minister said that ABN AMRO said goodbye to this equity fund and to these employees because this is not in the spirit of ABN AMRO's remuneration policy. But then the conclusion cannot be different from that this is not in the spirit of the rules on remuneration as we have laid down in laws and regulations. And it cannot be different from the fact that the Minister of Finance is going to look after this case to see whether the legislation and regulations should be tightened up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr. Chairman. I began my first and second reaction to Mr Nijboer by saying that there could be a lot of discussion about this. These are equity companies that are part of ABM AMRO, in which employees themselves invest, co-invest their own money, and thus, as it were, rewarded for the risk they take themselves. You will then have a whole legal discussion whether this is a reward or a compensation for taking risks on your own account. But then you come up with some kind of explanation of the law. I understand this discussion very well. ABN AMRO also understands very well. That is why they have concluded that they no longer want these activities and have placed them at a distance. So although it's legal, legally allowed within the law, they themselves think that's what I think positive from ABN AMRO is that it literally doesn't fit with the bank they want to be. I think that is a positive development, which we support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you.
