ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34372, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the improvement and strengthening of the detection and prosecution of computer crime (computer crime III). I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber. I may ask those who go to a standing committee meeting to leave the Chamber as quietly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Aardema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for being here. In my view, it is the first time that a cop, even if he is now out of office, is debating with the Minister. But thank you for that. This is a memorable moment for me. For the Computer Crime Act III, the permanent Chamber Committee visited the police and the team that prepares the police organisation for this law. There were disappointingly few colleagues present. That's too bad, especially since my experience is that you pick up the best information at the workplace. I start by expressing my appreciation and admiration to these people, idealists of the purest kind, who could probably earn a lot more elsewhere in IT, but who choose to make the Netherlands safer, fight crime. The PVV Group takes off the proverbial hat for that. Mr. Chairman. Combating crime is an infinite race in which the police and the judiciary, by definition, are behind the facts and for which we, as legislators, should give them the means to catch up over and over again. You can't go after organized crime today with Bromsnor, especially if that crime is taking place partly, but more and more on the Internet, or using the most modern techniques. This law protects computer memories, criminalizes the use or possession of data obtained by a crime, criminalizes the seduction of minors to fornication, grooming, online trade fraud and so on. Less attention has been paid to all this, but the law also provides for this. The PVV supports that. We also support the intention to review the law after two years. Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group also sees this law as a digital search warrant. An important part of the crime takes place online, using smartphones and computers. And wherever there is to be a search warrant in a search warrant, this law provides for the entry of a network, as it is called, with sufficient guarantees, guarantees and conditions. It's logged, recorded, who does what to the police, there has to be permission from the judge commissioner, and it's only very serious crimes. It's not like the police are just hacking into your computer. At least that is the starting point of this law. I'll get back to you on that. What the PVV is concerned about is that the police should report unknown vulnerabilities that they should use. The fundamental question is whether this is a task for the police. Or is it being pushed more into the role of the Authority Consumer & Market? Is it the duty of the police to report such vulnerabilities? There may be a very good reason for postponing this, but in the end this vulnerability should be reported, while it is conceivable that this vulnerability could come into use later in other investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u4	I think it's a little weird. Because it is also true that the police protect us and prevent crime from happening. In that context, Mr Earthema would say that it would also be logical for a police officer to warn against pickpocketing. Or do you say, "Let the pickpocket go ahead, so the police can at least bring him in?" 'Cause we're actually talking about that tension field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u5	It's about me that, if you have to report that vulnerability, it'll be known later, so you won't be able to use it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u6	That's right. But again, I think it's the police's job to prevent crime. The question now is whether we allow vulnerabilities to exist so that we also make the consumer vulnerable and so that there is much more crime. Or do we warn and make sure that the leak is closed, knowing that it's hard to catch a criminal who then can't commit an offense because there's no vulnerability anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u7	I can follow your reasoning, just the question is whether the police should report it. That's why I'm putting that on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u8	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u9	Finally, Mr President. So I hear you say that you think it is not the police's job to warn against crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u10	Yeah, because you're not gonna warn anyone in advance about getting tapped or anything. You don't do that till after. In addition, if this law is adopted in this way, we from other services from abroad will probably no longer receive information about unknown vulnerabilities. Because the Netherlands is going to report these vulnerabilities, and with that the Netherlands is taking away the opportunity to investigate foreign services. So that puts our own tracking at a disadvantage. A shot in your own foot. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states that only in a specific case hack software will be purchased. This means that we are then throwing away this hacking software, which has been spent a lot of Dutch taxpayers' money, and we could also use it in other cases where we want to fight crime. We're just gonna throw a BOLO in the trash can. Why do we do that? This would mean that we may have to pay a supplier twice for a product that we have already paid and bought, because apparently the government agreement states that we can only use it for one specific case. That can't be serious, can it? What do the services that use it think of us dealing with their scarce resources in this way? And more importantly, why? What is the purpose of this waste of money? I'd like a response from the Minister. And the question is, how long can the police make an extra 10 million? According to what I understood from the police, that's not a drop, it's just a splash on a glowing record. In addition, you write to us in the reply that this limitation requires the technical team of the National Unity itself to develop something and then to take it into account financially. Does this mean there's gonna be more or less money than the $10 million? The coalition agreement also reports that we are going to publish statistics on this hacking software. Is that to inform criminals? How will that be made public? What exactly is being made public? Here, too, the question: what is the purpose? Here too, I would like a response from the Minister. The PVV Group also believes that the ex post supervision, which is now invested in the JenV Inspection, should be more independent and remote. How else does the Minister prevent the story of the butcher and the inspection of his own meat? Earlier I said it's not like this law makes it possible for the government to just crack your phone or your computer. There must be good reasons for that. Those reasons have been defined and provided with various safeguards. That should be the starting point. However, this is a "but" in large capitals. The law allows the minister to bring any other crime under this law through an AMvB, without consulting both chambers. He could use this law as some kind of decree. This is a bridge too far for our group, on the one hand because of privacy considerations, on the other because we also see in neighbouring countries that freedom of expression is under severe pressure. Islam criticism, for example, is already seen in some countries as hate-sowing. Social media are censored in Germany and France. German politicians are being prosecuted for commenting on the fact that the German police were tweeting in Arabic. In England, even an Islam critic is in prison. That's not a slippery slope, but that's a black slope. A former minister, Hirsch Ballin, had a cartoonist pull off his bed and started the interparliamentary working group on cartoon problems. The Chamber of Culture is not far away in this country either, not to mention the political process. And this minister let himself slip in an unguarded moment that freedom of expression could also be a little less. This cabinet wants to punish hatred more severely and it is then up to the judge to establish this arbitrary concept. That is not what the PVV Group is going to be involved in. We have already made this objection known to the previous rulers. We have been very open about this, also because we think it is an important law that we need. It has taken far too long before we deal with this law here, but if the Minister wants the support of the PVV Group, he must really fix this part, preferably as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Earthema. I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, our society has rapidly become dependent on digital resources. The members of the D66 Group share the concern that in this digital age an attack on and out of digital infrastructure can be socially disruptive. Last Friday, the NCTV's 2018 Cybersecurity image Netherlands confirms a permanent digital threat and ongoing cybercrime. My group recognises that technological developments require additional measures to make our digital infrastructure safer. This legislative proposal extends investigative powers in criminal investigations, including by police, justice and special investigation services or officials. It creates, among other things, the power of remote access to an automated work, in other words: it creates a hacking power. Such far-reaching powers need strong legitimacy, guarantees and supervision. The members of my group have noted with approval that the government agreement provides an additional 10 million for the implementation of this law. Can the Minister indicate how this 10 million will be used specifically? In our earlier input, my group expressed concerns about the promotion of a black market in zero-day software. Hacking devices using unknown vulnerabilities can eventually lead to a more unsafe rather than a safer internet. After all, the investigating authorities may have an interest in maintaining unknown vulnerabilities, so that these vulnerabilities are not reported to software and hardware manufacturers, and therefore the security problem is not addressed. By amending the House of Representatives, introducing an obligation to report unknown vulnerabilities that have become known to the police when the hacking power is applied, with the exception of a major investigative interest, and by agreeing in the government agreement not to buy or only in exceptional circumstances hacking software this concern can be reduced somewhat. The members of my group therefore welcome the intention in the government agreement that only "in a specific case" and under conditions hack software will be purchased by investigative services. However, what is meant by this "specific case" is not yet clear to me. Can the Minister clarify and define exactly what is meant by: in a specific case? What are we supposed to do with that? Is there a case-by-case decision? And if so, by whom and with what criteria and conditions? By whom and by what criteria will this subsidiarity be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u13	I share Mrs Bredenoord's concern that "a specific case" has not been specified. It is asking for further delineation. What criteria would Mrs Bredenoord herself consider justified or sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u14	I am particularly interested in the Minister's answers in this area. I'd like to wait and see. As far as I am concerned, it is not case-by-case, but it must have to do with the ultimate necessity. There is a certain layering in it or it will be necessary, because of course there are other possibilities to enter and access data. I'm thinking on that side, but first I'd like to wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u15	Then we'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u16	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u17	I was wondering if the D66 Group was wondering whether, in that particular case, it is justified to throw away the whole programme. I imagine you're gonna erase or throw away the results, but you're not gonna throw away the whole program, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u18	Once again, I would like to await the Minister's answers, because, as far as I am concerned, it depends on how relevant and possibly disruptive these unknown vulnerabilities are; what infrastructure is the potential. It still matters whether this concerns all Microsoft operating systems or a slightly smaller vulnerability. I find it difficult to give a very general answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u19	I'd still like to get on with it. If you want to write a letter, you could buy the program Word, but when you've finished that letter, you're not gonna throw Word away, are you? That's a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u20	I agree. Mr. Chairman. Malware can shut down our society, especially essential infrastructure such as hospitals, as we experienced during the WannaCry incident. What does the bill contribute to countering malware? What risks does the Minister see in maintaining a market of unknown vulnerabilities? The WannaCry incident was an example of how non-reporting of vulnerabilities led to a global cyber attack, as was explicitly discussed at the expert meeting. In particular, the extension of powers with regard to the covert intrusion of an automated work at a distance raises questions. How does the above-mentioned competence relate to Article 8 of the ECHR and the case law of the European Court of Justice? This concerns, in particular, the proportionality of the infringement of privacy. It is potentially very large amounts of data, especially now that many electronic devices are connected in the Internet of Things and data is stored in the cloud. The Advisory Section of the Council of State has specifically criticised this point and recommended differentiation as far as competence is concerned. In its response, the Government stated: "The conduct of these investigative acts requires a crime which constitutes a serious breach of the legal order and which is subject to a statutory term of imprisonment of eight years or more, or a crime designated by general administrative action." Can the Minister indicate whether this opinion has also been taken into account for differentiation? The identification of offences requiring access to an automated file shall be regulated in an AMvB. The members of the D66 Group are in favour of a list containing a restrictive list of specific crimes for which hacking powers may be used, as proposed by the Dutch Bar Association. The proposed AMvB has no pending procedure. Can the Minister undertake to submit the relevant AMvB for inspection? Does the Minister also consider that this is important in assessing the proportionality of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u21	The GroenLinks Group has difficulty with the AMvB. One of the reasons for this is that the legal guarantee of eight years of criminal threat that we have could be undermined by more flexible standards in an AMvB. From a state-law point of view, we have difficulty with the system that an AMvB could run counter to or deviate from that important standard in the law. How does the D66 Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u22	I think that is precisely the reason why we would like to see and, if necessary, deal with the AMvB, because it is very important what is indicated in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u23	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u24	I understand that, but that does not guarantee the role of the co-legislator. We can have an opinion on it and have a debate on it, but that is something other than participating in the legislative process now and whether or not to give consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u25	I agree with you on that, too. I honestly think that if the Minister now agrees that this AMvB is being discussed here, at least we are a step forward. Moreover, the law is evaluated after two years. That seems to me to be an important guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u26	Mrs. Strik, just a little something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u27	Should I understand it from the D66 Group that at the moment when the AMvB is put forward here, that is sufficient guarantee for the group and that the group can live with the fact that there is a deviation from the legal standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u28	If it's all right with you, I'll wait for the Minister's answers first. It depends on a lot more than just this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u29	Then I would like to take a step back, because I now hear different terms going over the table. Does D66 really want the AMvB to be hung? We can always talk about it, agree to it is a second. What does D66 mean at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u30	What matters to us is that we can watch and possibly discuss what is regulated in that AMvB. That is what we are aiming for. What is regulated in the AMvB is an important part of the discussion on proportionality of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u31	I couldn't agree more. I would like to say, then, that we can take part in the decision. Are those words that you would also use or do you say: no, that goes too far for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u32	In a material sense, yes. Mr. Chairman. As the Minister himself states in the reply, judicial review according to the ECHR is the best guarantee of independence, impartiality and sound procedure. Is any use of the power to enter an automated work preceded by judicial review? Can the Minister explain again which forms of review are preceded by this competence, including scrutiny by the Central Review Committee? A specific concern is the access to the camera and microphone function on electronic devices. Can the Minister indicate which specific guarantees apply or otherwise can be promised? Another concern is how to deal with the fact that data from persons other than the suspect is also taken over or searched. It may happen that there is an automated work which, in addition to the suspect, other persons use. The privacy of these innocent third parties should be adequately guaranteed. Can the Minister explain how the obligation to notify the person concerned is in practice applied and how to prevent data from being stored by these third parties? Mr. Chairman. We also want to ask questions about the so-called take-down power, whereby the police can make certain online information inaccessible. The notice-and-take-down procedure is a procedure whereby a party is informed of unlawful or criminal material on an online platform requesting that it be removed. In addition to the notice-and-take-down code, the law allows the police to remove material, but possibly also block IP addresses and entire servers. In the expert meeting in the First Chamber, some experts expressed their concerns that this could lead to a censoring Internet police or even an Internet blockade. Experts also expressed concerns about the lack of ex post evaluation. The assessment of hacking power does not apply to take-down power. What does the Minister think of the proposal for an independent committee to monitor the legality of the take-down power? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The new powers such as hacking and take-down powers may be necessary to combat crime in the digital age, but should only be applied under strict conditions and scrutiny. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u33	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal aimed at strengthening the legal instruments for the detection and prosecution of cybercrime. A few years ago, the Justice Department found that computer crime is becoming more and more common. At the same time, there is still a whole world to win in tackling cybercrime. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, only 8% of cases of computer crime are reported. The Public Prosecutor's Office cannot effectively tackle targeted cybercrime, writes the Public Prosecutor's Annual Review of 2017. On the one hand, the present bill adds a number of offences punishable by the Criminal Code and, on the other hand, adds powers to conduct computer research in the Staff Code. That means that the bill contains both a piece of criminality and a BOLO. The appearances of online crime are constantly changing and the present bill therefore includes a series of proposals to address the vulnerabilities in cybersecurity. These range from criminalising online trade fraud to creating a new hacking power and from deploying decoys to tackling computer data healing. We support most of the proposals. Our concerns focus in particular on one part of the current legislative proposal, namely the new hacking power. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to the Hoekstra motion, adopted in this Chamber in November 2015, with the support of the PvdA, in which the government is asked to refrain in the future from a linking of separate legislative proposals, thereby depriving the First Chamber of the possibility to make a separate political final assessment of those independent legislative proposals. How does the Minister assess the present bill in the context of this motion? Mr. Chairman. The undesirable potential side effects of the present legislative proposal deserve particular attention. These are linked to the balance between withholding a vulnerability from individual search interest and the public interest served in reporting vulnerabilities as soon as possible. If the police or the Public Prosecutor acquires knowledge of unknown vulnerabilities in hard or software that can secretly and remotely enter an automated work, they will in principle be reported to the manufacturer of the relevant hardware or software. In exceptional cases, there may be reasons to temporarily impede reporting. In such a case, the Public Prosecutor may, on the basis of a major investigative interest, order that the disclosure to the producer of an unknown vulnerability to the intrusion into an automated work be postponed. Recourt and Tellegen's amendment provides that the prosecutor can only give the order not to report an unknown vulnerability after an authorization from the judge commissioner. I would like to ask the Minister about the reasonable time limit for such a delay. From different angles, the Committee of Experts' meeting in this Chamber expressed concern that this approach would stimulate the search for vulnerabilities by companies and promote the commercialisation of digital vulnerability. Because although the police will not buy information about unknown vulnerabilities, they will buy software that uses these vulnerabilities. Companies that develop such software will continue to seek out those unknown vulnerabilities in order to continue to renew and sell their software. It maintains a market that is constantly looking for weaknesses and uses them, but also delivers to countries that are not so close to citizens' fundamental rights. Does the Minister consider this desirable? If not, how does he intend to prevent this? The use of software packages evokes associations with the digitalisation project Quality and Innovation. Does the government have enough expertise to act as a client? And how does the Minister assess the reporting obligation in the light of the use of software packages that greatly facilitate hacking? After all, the user often does not know through which back door this software enters the automated work of suspects. 'What one does not know cannot be reported', and thus the notification is avoided. The Council of State also advised on this point because it was concerned that the powers of covert intrusion would create new openings in systems that could also be used by other than the investigators. The government has indicated that there will be no new openings, so that the "hacked" system by the investigating officer will not become weaker than before the "secret entry." On what does the Minister base this statement? Here too there is a lack of transparency due to the use of software packages. Several parties to the expert meeting wondered whether the delay of the notification did not go against the desire to protect people as best as possible. Delaying a notification of a weakness to the person who can solve it The developer of the software in which the weakness is located may, after all, lead to a longer absence of a solution to the weakness, which could also be used by other than investigators. How does this relate to the responsibility of the government to protect its citizens in an online environment, I ask the Minister. With the present bill, he does not stimulate a culture of insecurity, the PvdA wonders. Much has already been discussed in the written debate preceding this plenary debate on the justification of the infringement of the right to respect for private, family and family life. This right is enshrined, in addition to Article 10 of the Constitution, in Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). The article contains a restriction clause which shows that restrictions on the right are permitted when they are provided for by law, for the benefit of the interests referred to in the article and are necessary in a democratic society. In particular, the last demand, the necessity of a democratic society, is a point of discussion for my group. The case law of the ECHR states that this need is also determined on the basis of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. According to various parties in the discussion, the present legislative proposal does not meet the requirement of proportionality. However, after amendment, the law lays down more stringent conditions for the application of a jurisdiction as the power constitutes a more serious infringement of privacy within the meaning of Article 8 ECHR and seems to be more closely related to the proportionality requirement. Good monitoring of compliance with this differentiation is necessary. Once inside an automated work, such access is difficult to limit to what was intended by the order. It is important to ensure that no data outside the order is included, so that the violation of the defendant's fundamental rights does not go beyond what is necessary. Does the Minister agree with me on this? If so, how will this be guaranteed? The data processing shall be monitored by the Personal Data Authority in the use of investigative powers that process data, such as the recording of communications. However, in many cases it does not yet monitor the legality and proportionality of the use of investigative powers as such, according to the Council of State. It therefore considers, together with the Personal Data Authority, that system surveillance is desirable where the legitimate exercise of investigative powers is monitored in a structural manner and where data are sought and/or obtained by means of information and communication technology. Such monitoring will focus in particular on the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity of the application of the relevant powers. The control is mainly carried out through the judge-supervisor in advance and possibly afterwards in the courtroom. But not all searches lead to a court case, which does not result in ex post control of fundamental rights violations. In addition, the Judge Commissioner does not consider the cases submitted in connection with other cases. The result is that there is no system check. I would ask the Minister to explain how the proposed supervision relates to the opinion of the Council of State on this point. The obligation to notify will inform the suspects of the infringement of their fundamental rights as soon as the investigation permits, provided that this is reasonably possible. This gives substance to the citizens' right to complain about the application of jurisdiction to a court. However, not every judge is a computer expert and can judge well about, for example, the software used. The same goes for the defense. Citizens can complain to the National Ombudsman, but he cannot make binding statements. Does the Minister believe that the powers of the National Ombudsman are sufficient? According to Prof. Koops of the University of Tilburg there is a gap in independent supervision of the many investigations that ultimately do not lead to a trial. Does the Minister endorse this analysis? If so, what proposals can we expect from him for a covering system of legal protection? In short, system control seems desirable both for the legal protection of citizens and for identifying bottlenecks in the exercise of powers. The Council of Justice calls for a new monitoring body to review the use of hacking power in addition to individually. Amnesty International considers effective supervision by an independent judicial authority of the conduct of investigation services to be a crucial part of a democratic rule of law in order to prevent abuse, arbitrary and unnecessary infringements. The Rathenau Institute drew a parallel at the expert meeting with the CTIVD's monitoring of the operation of the intelligence and security services and expressed the concern that the Safety and Justice Inspectorate... Mr President, it is 'Justice and Security', isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u35	It's Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u36	I am pleased to let the President repeat that. I'll start the sentence again. The Rathenau Institute drew a parallel at the expert meeting with the CTIVD's monitoring of the operation of the intelligence and security services and expressed the concern that the Justice and Security Inspectorate is less independent in its operations and has less powers. Does the Minister agree with the PvdA that it is desirable to monitor critically and independently the use made by the investigation services of their wider powers, while ensuring the legal status of citizens? If so, how does it intend to properly shape system control? Finally, Mr President. Given the new powers arising from the present legislative proposal and the rapid technological developments in the field of cybercrime, my group asks the Minister to undertake to shorten the five-year review period to two or three years. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Can he give explicit attention to system control? That brings me to a conclusion. On a number of points, my group expects a substantive and conscientious debate. Those points concern undesirable potential side effects, necessity and proportionality of the legislative proposal, as well as critical and independent supervision. My group is not yet convinced that leaks in software should not be closed as soon as possible before hackers get wind of it. We are aware of the importance of a comprehensive toolbox for the detection and prosecution of cybercrime, but we are not yet convinced that this will outweigh the digital security of global society. The Public Prosecutor writes that he must take great steps to combat digital crime properly. "The bottom line is that we need more capacity, knowledge and expertise," a spokesperson said. But that's not what the bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Even George Orwell couldn't have known it. If he were to look ahead 38 years today with the knowledge of current technologies, what would he write? He might be surprised that we are now almost all walking around voluntarily with a much more advanced telescreen than he had foreseen in his Big Brother house. A screen that we often don't understand technically, which is hugely personal and important and at the same time easy to track, spy on and hack. There is therefore a great social need for a government that acts against crime, but which at the same time values the security of our privacy, and which guarantees that the use of this competence is always in line with criteria developed by the ECHR and the Court of Justice. Technological progress offers many advantages, but it also makes us more vulnerable. With the hacking power, this bill offers far-reaching opportunities to take a look at people's daily lives: listening through the microphone, watching over the webcam and using GPS to precisely determine the location, capture keystrokes, create screenshots, and record data and possibly make it inaccessible. But also the thermostat, the car and medical equipment are all covered by this law. In fact, hacking is, as was said at the expert meeting, a viewing operation, a collusive search and eavesdropping in one. As Mr Wolfsen said at the time, you can't get closer to people's skin than when you can see into their computers and other devices. That therefore even affects our freedom of thought. Because of this gross violation of privacy and the effects it has on our behaviour, my group considers it very important that we use and monitor these powers with utmost care. That is precisely what is of great concern. My group supports the increased relevance of tackling cybercrime and agrees with the cabinet that the investigation authorities should be adequately equipped to combat it. My group also understands that hacking is sometimes necessary. However, the fight against cybercrime that risks making our digital society more unsafe and less protected misses its goal. In this light, I would like to discuss here the definition of "automated work," ex ante and ex post verification, the different types of hacking powers and the relationship to the reporting obligation and the AMvB in relation to the scope of the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. In the future, our entire home can be regarded as automated work, as can our means of transport. So far, the government does not want to know about a specific list of automated work covered by the definition of the law. My group believes that, like many experts, this is an unwise decision. It doesn't matter which equipment is hacked or used and where that equipment is. In a exhaustive list, at least the permitted equipment may address how, when, how deep and why a particular device is allowed, the search interest, privacy interests and the degree of intrusion are considered in full. What criteria does the government use to determine which devices may be used when? According to the draft law, the far-reaching powers may only be applied in the event of suspicion of a crime committed in prison for eight years or of a crime identified in AMvB. This AMvB makes the substantive guarantee of the law butter soft. This contrasts with German legislation, for example, which states that hacking is permitted only in the event of an acute danger to the body and its members, or in the event of a threat to the State. The cabinet has indicated that the AMvB will be about cybercrime and vice, but what else should my group think about? What are the exact criteria? Why does the cabinet choose to take future decisions outside parliament? Is it prepared to reconsider this and propose a legislative amendment to it? After all, is such a fundamental violation of a person's privacy, whereby you figuratively break into a person's home and stay there without that person knowing it, not reason enough to lay down precisely in the law when this is permitted and not permitted? Mr. Chairman. The Minister refers to designation 35 of the regulatory instructions on questions relating to the pending procedure. Apart from the fact that there are good reasons for settling this parliamentary involvement, I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to designation 31. It states that higher regulation does not allow derogations from lower regulation. This designation is the result of the Committee of Appeals which adopted this Chamber more than 12 years ago, with the aim of preventing a delegation of legislative power by law to a lower regulator who authorizes the lower regulator to deviate from the law in a formal sense. The explanatory statement states that, although this may be formal, it should not be applied because it leads to unclear legislation. In this case, too, it concerns the possibility of derogation from the strict criterion of the eight-year legal standard of criminal threat, thereby conflicting with the law. Does the Minister recognize this? Mr Wolfsen of the Dutch Data Protection Authority called it "unprecedented" in this Chamber that the criteria in the AMvB are less stringent than those in the law. In his view, this makes the legal guarantee in fact illusory, because it is theoretically possible to make the law applicable even for bicycle theft. Well, that may not happen soon, but what guarantees do we actually have for that? Does not a more flexible standard in an AMvB actually mean a deviation from the legal guarantee? What justification does the Minister have for this? Speed cannot be the only argument to circumvent democratic guarantees. Recently, we have shown in relation to Saint Eustatius that we can deal with legislation very quickly. I would like to clarify my point. The government indicated that "it can be expected that the use of research in an automated work may also replace other forms of police deployment." How does the government see this? What other forms? How does it view this in the light of the proportionality and subsidiarity tests? Our group considers it crucial that the far-reaching hacking power is accompanied by independent and binding supervision at every stage. The bill provides for an ex ante test by the Central Review Committee of the Public Prosecutor and the Judge Commissioner. Those two complement each other well. However, members would like to hear whether the application for authorisation to the Judge Commissioner is accompanied in an individual case by a specific justification for the equipment used so that the Judge Commissioner can carry out that proportionality test. My group is also asking for the necessary expertise from the rc. Are specialized judges-supervisors considered or are they otherwise invested in up-to-date knowledge? The test afterwards is more limited, because it is invested in the JenV Inspection. In my group's view, it does not reflect the legitimacy of the hacking effort, but I would like to know whether that is correct and, if so, why the Minister would consider this test sufficient. According to the Minister, the inspection operates independently within the Ministry, but does he recognise that the inspection as part of the Ministry nevertheless has a different kind of independence from a more remote body? The inspection also lacks crucial powers, such as the hearing of officials under oath. We therefore believe that the ex post supervision is inadequate, especially since not all cases will come before a court of law and will therefore not be subject to that judicial review afterwards. I'd like a response to that. As far as we are concerned, this also applies, and perhaps even more so, to the use of hacking for enforcement purposes, for example, in making online information inaccessible or botnet infrastructure deactivated. Once again, ex post surveillance should be guaranteed. Does the Minister recognise the importance of this and, if so, what opportunities does he see to strengthen it? Has it been considered to apply the CTIVD's test model here, whereby ex post evaluation of the deployment can be carried out in an integrated and policy-based manner? The ex-post review of disruption actions is in any case made more difficult due to the lack of reporting of a hack. In addition, there is control of actual hacks via login. Can the Minister explain why he thinks this is enough? The government also uses the same structure with the AMvBs as with the hacking powers. Why not also draw up here a list of materials that could qualify for a possible blockade? Those legal safeguards are of course important here too, because this competence also affects our freedom of expression and free news. How will the Minister prevent over-use of this power from opening the way to censoring Internet police? Then I have a question about the obligation to notify. It has been arranged that this applies as soon as the importance of the research permits. That criterion can be explained in several ways. Therefore, please answer the question of whether the Minister can explain in more detail how it is handled in practice and how the derogation is dealt with in practice that is not notified if the distribution of the communication is not reasonably possible. To what extent will the Minister ensure that efforts are made to make this notification possible? Is it true that there is no sanction for non-compliance and if so, what is the reason for this? The government has indicated that there are good working arrangements with European countries and that a request for legal aid is always made by the Netherlands in the country they want to hack. Except apparently, Secretary of State Dijkhoff said at the time of treatment in the Lower House, in countries that are known places of refuge for criminals. "Then don't sit around waiting for a legal aid application," he said loosely. Does the Minister share the view of his predecessor and, if so, what justification is behind this violation of international law? To which countries does the cabinet refer and what are the criteria to waive a request for legal aid? Has the government considered the consequences of repercussions? Does not a request for legal aid also form part of the judge commissioner's test? It is simple for my group. Buying hack software on the black market and installing this software high in the providers' servers with the risk that the government itself will make the system more unsafe goes too far. It is also irresponsible, in our view, not to report the use of such hacking software with unknown vulnerabilities, as it seriously puts the safety of consumers at risk. The notification obligation is thus a dead letter by using this software. Does the Minister recognise that and if so, how will he prevent detection techniques from actually leading to greater insecurity for us? The coalition agreement states that in the next two years, hacking software will only be purchased for a specific case. It has been discussed before in this discussion. The evaluation shall then consider whether this rule impedes or does not impede effectiveness. As far as my group is concerned, it is not yet clear how much protection this agreement offers at all. Both qualitative and quantitative criteria are lacking. What criteria will apply to this particular case? Who determines the criteria and who tests them when purchasing them? What does the Minister mean by dubious regimes where no business will be done indirectly? Does that include China? We all think of Russia, but I wonder how the Netherlands treats China. In view of China's rapid surveillance state and the lack of human rights safeguards, I would also support China. I'd like an explanation. Using existing vulnerabilities and only later reporting is of a different order than putting them in. But this also applies to us, as far as the investigation services are concerned, to report them as soon as possible, so as not to expose ourselves to external damage or interference. Should there not be better external control of this, so that the cat is not left alone with the bacon? What are the criteria for a reasonable period of time, as has just been requested, and for an extension of the deadline? It seems important to our group, for all these reasons and questions, to have all the hacking actions examined ex post until the evaluation period and specifically take into account to what extent the violation of privacy was justified. How does the Minister view this? On the basis of which criteria will the Minister carry out an assessment of the law? We live in a time when people's privacy is under increasing pressure. Sometimes it is because of ourselves, when we voluntarily give up our data, sometimes because we are asked to agree to conditions of use, and sometimes it is because of a government that can get deeper and deeper into the lives of its citizens. The analysis of the consequences of this incremental degradation of our privacy can only be made afterwards, but I would like to point out here that privacy and security are not opposites. They're not each other's enemies. Privacy is an essential part of security. Privacy is also more than security. Monitoring what we think, read, view, write or discuss can paralyze us in exploring new ideas and expressing our identity. It is also important for the protection of our fundamental rights to have a healthy distrust of the public authorities. Technology is not neutral and it is also steerable. This seems to the cabinet to be aware of too, but unfortunately more in favour of the search possibilities than in relation to our privacy. As with the Wiv there is a fairly good law here in the base, but the space criteria, the exceptions and the limited supervision afterwards are a great cause for concern for us. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. 25 years ago, the first Computer Crime Act came into force. Today we are discussing in this house the law on computer crime III. Over the past decades, the "automated work" such as the computer, the smartphone, or server has become more and more in control of our lives. Inevitably, criminals also use the digital world for their dark business. The current law on computer crime III aims to adapt the legal instruments in response to the rapid development of information and communication technologies to combat serious criminal offences. It should be noted that 2.5 years have elapsed since the legislative proposal was submitted on 21 December 2015. The dynamics of the subject seem to be somewhat inversely proportional to the pace of handling of the bill. The political debate concerns in particular the protection of privacy pursuant to Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the ECHR, Article 10 of the Constitution, the inviolability of the home, Article 12 of the Constitution, and the inviolability of the letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy contained in Article 13 of the Constitution. The question is whether these proposals fit into the framework of the rule of law and whether the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity are met. Madam President. The Minister has last described in detail in his further reply of 4 May 2018 that the proposals in the Computer Crime Act III concerning the remote entry into an automated work in the individual case are subject to strict conditions and are subject to firm safeguards. This must include a suspect of a crime as defined in Article 67 (1) of the Code of Criminal Law, which constitutes a serious breach of the legal order. The district attorney has to make the preliminary assessment of the intrusion into the computer, smartphone or server. Following an assessment by the Central Review Committee of the Public Prosecutor's Office and with a positive opinion from the Judge Commissioner, designated investigators of a special team of the national police will exercise the investigative powers effectively. That technical team is also separated from the team responsible for the tactical search. The VVD is positive about the safeguards in the bill. Having said that, the Minister's commitment to dealing carefully and conscientiously with the proposed competence of an investigation in an automated work does not mean that no mistakes can be made that could lead to damage. The members of the VVD Group in the First Chamber have focused on the subject of third party damage as a result of the new investigative powers in the handling of the Computer Crime III bill. My group would like to thank the Minister for his extensive consideration of damage aspects in the further reply. The VVD Group welcomes the fact that, as a result of their request, the Minister has extended the obligation to log in to the automated work, allowing control to be exercised over the actions carried out by investigators in the computer, smartphone or server. My group has a few more questions for the Minister. In the further reply, the Minister notes that he "considers the intrusion into automated work of vital sectors to be highly unlikely, inter alia because the organisations concerned can in principle be approached themselves to provide the data relevant to the investigation." However, only data that store vital sectors for their business operations can be submitted. For example, privacy and net neutrality legislation limits these organisations in what they are allowed to store. In the case of services provided by telecoms and ICT companies, such as Internet access, cloud services and hosting, it is not excluded that special investigators may also be interested in data not stored for business purposes. There is information about networks that are not recorded, but which the investigators may be interested in in the context of their investigations. For example, to access a third-party vital-party IP traffic through the network to determine who is in digital contact with whom. This example is hypothetical, but the point is that entry for detection purposes cannot be ruled out and can thus potentially lead to damage in vital sectors. The Minister states that the intrusion of an automated work of vital parties cannot be ruled out in advance, for example, in the event that these service providers themselves have been infiltrated by a malicious party... My group has the following questions to the Minister. How does the national police prevent the search for data for an investigation that vital parties cannot consult because these data are not stored for business purposes when entering an automated work of vital parties? Is it a task of the national police or of the security services to investigate vital infrastructures that have been infiltrated by a malicious party? Can this investigation also take place in the context of a criminal investigation? And at what point is a vital party informed of an infiltration by a malicious party? Madam President. I'll come back to compensation for damage to third parties. The Minister shall state in the further reply that compensation may be claimed in the event of damage to third parties in both a lawful and a tort or tort act. This compensation can be recovered from the national police or, if necessary, from the civil courts. The members of the VVD Group ask the Minister to deepen the explanations given as regards the course of justice to civil courts, which is open to an innocent third party in the event of unlawful or lawful action by the national police. In other words, in addition to the reply in the explanatory memorandum, can the civil justice of the innocent third party be made more concrete? A causal link between the damage and the intrusion into the automated work must be established in the course of a course of action. For this, knowledge of the logging of the intrusion is crucial. Although the obligation to log is now being introduced, the Minister has not explicitly indicated that logging can also be used as a burden of proof by parties who may have suffered damage as a result of entering the automated work by the national police. In the further reply, the Minister notes that '... the lodging is intended for the internal control of the operations carried out during the investigation in an automated work'. The VVD Group has the following questions to the Minister. Can the logging of the intrusion into an automated work be requested by third parties and will that information also be provided for use as evidence in cases of damage? Will the national police, or, where appropriate, the JenV Inspection, proactively report damage caused to third parties if, for example, this is demonstrated by logging? Is it also logged which commercial software and unknown vulnerabilities will be used to penetrate automated work, so that the functioning of this software and vulnerabilities, and the potential harmful effects, can also be assessed? The members of the VVD Group look forward with interest to the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about the Computer Crime Act III. Of course, that law is not about computer crime, but about combating it. In order to combat cybercrime, we also need more powers in addition to more or better criminal acts. Because, that's the story, the police can't do enough to fight cybercrime right now. It is good to realise that this is not just about cybercrime. The police also need these powers to fight other forms of crime, because every crook today uses digital means and the opportunities they offer to conceal his crimes. Having these powers therefore concerns the whole fight against crime. This law has been waiting for a long time, actually so long that we have to ask ourselves whether we should not start with law number IV. I say this because some parts of the law, such as the possibility of using a decoy to track digital child decoys, should have been arranged years ago. I have previously expressed my concerns about this kind of monster laws where everything is being shoved in, also because some parts are controversial. They are thus slowing down the parts on which everyone is in total agreement; this unnecessarily slows down important legislation. I think that is not only undesirable but also reprehensible, because the decoy could not only have prevented victims, but also because it puts undue pressure on a very important legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be nice to mention that Article 138c stems from Parliamentary questions about the Manon Thomas case in 2010, a question that I asked myself. So you see again where Parliamentary questions can ultimately lead and how much sense that ultimately makes. I would like to begin by trying to separate the proposals from the technical ones. I understand that this seems difficult because we want to make the technical powers of detection available, but I also propose this because my group believes that we should not look at the technology but at its consequences. I would also like to mention that this is a legislative proposal which my group is very struggling with, because there is no doubt that the police must have sufficient powers to combat computer crime effectively. It is also extremely frustrating to run into formalities that take a lot of time, while preventing victims. Let me give you an example from my own practice. Every day many men become victims of extortion with webcam sex images. The initial contact has often been made via Facebook or another platform. Then customers are constantly harassed with the request to pay money. How easy is it to ask one of these parties to give the underlying data? But these parties then demand legal aid, because they don't want to give that data just like that. At the same time, the victims are so many people and the dates behind them are often not even useful.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It takes the police a lot of time, energy and manpower to comply with all these formalities. It is frustrating for the police and frustrating for the victim, but we cannot just let go of these formalities, because they are the basis of our rule of law. Transparency and verifiable procedures that an independent judge can judge prevent our citizens from being the victims of Kafkaian scenes, even though, unfortunately, sometimes they do. I think it would be good to emphasise the following before I continue with the legislative proposal. It is clear to the SP Group that there must be a law. The question we are asking ourselves is whether this bill gives us sufficient guarantees. Because the core of the problems we're struggling with is the scale of things. In 2017, the police received 20,000 reports of child pornography up and downloaders, a quantity that no human police force can fight against, not even with more powers. And, of course, that also reduces offline crime. We really don't have to doubt those numbers. A classic car squat is much more risky and results much less. That is why this form of crime will increasingly disappear and crime will replace it in the virtual world. I think it is a good thing to emphasise this, because it also makes it clear how important this law is. At the same time, we hear critical noises about this law, including from the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Council of State. These are particularly critical of the usefulness and necessity of this legislation. The Minister remains vague about this, whereas this kind of far-reaching competence requires a very good description of what is useful and necessary and when exactly the power is going to be used. I would ask the Minister, if this law is passed, to send clear reports to the Chamber on how often these methods are used in what kind of crimes. I'd like a commitment on this. Mr. Chairman. This also shows the struggle that our group has with these proposals. Some articles are beyond doubt and would rather be introduced yesterday than today. On the other hand, we see that old law books are difficult to translate into the virtual world. We are looking for new powers to fight criminals, but then we run counter to the values of justice that we know. This is also reflected in this bill. We are going to give powers which can have far-reaching implications for the separation of powers. To ensure this well, the Minister has built in a large number of ifs and buts. At the same time, it has become a dragon of a legislative proposal, because so many administrative acts need to be done that it may hinder the speed of action. On the other hand, concerns have been expressed by several parties because, for example, logging would not be sufficient. It would not be possible to control a group and, if one does not log the necessary things, one would not ultimately be able to look afterwards to see if the rules have been followed properly. To do really different things, perhaps we should have a discussion about the sustainability of current law in the virtual world. How do we make laws so that they can pass the test of time over the coming years? Do we have enough of the current way in which we separate the powers, or could we perhaps have more effective enforcement of the law with other creative solutions while at the same time protecting democratic values? Mr. Chairman. This law is titled number III, and we all know that we are only at the beginning of the digitalization of the world and that we will have to adapt to a law very often in the coming time with artificial intelligence coming up. What does the Minister think of these developments? He is particularly active in this area and I am curious to know what the Minister's views are on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to comment on a number of elements of the law that the SP still opposes. It's for the SP terms and conditions. I'll put them in a clearer order now, if possible, another motion will follow. It is four points of concern and I hope that the Minister will be able to meet us there. I'll start with the software. What the SP has great difficulty with is purchasing software from third parties. Even though we approve these, in no way is there any guarantee that this software doesn't do things we don't know about. In the context of the many cyber threats we know, this is perhaps the most unwise thing we can do. In addition, this software may again use vulnerabilities that should be reported. That is why this report is being bypassed. Moreover, we will only make our police force stronger if we bring that knowledge into our homes and keep it in our homes. We understand that it takes time of course to build up knowledge, but we can slowly phase out all commercial software. I would like to know what the Minister's position is. Then there is the question of control. The Minister says that the power to access a computer may be used when there is an urgent need for detection. Can the Minister give some examples when, as he calls it, there is a last resort? Would it not be better to record when and in which crimes this power can be used? At the same time, there are many proposals to log into this law, but there are also questions as to whether this method of checking is sufficient. How does the Minister see this? Would it not have been better, in that context, to follow the advice of the Council of State in order to provide for structural supervision? I would like to join the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance's comments on the ex-post review. Mr President, the weaknesses. It feels a little strange: the police break into your house because you left your toilet window open. But the police can not only break in, but even sneak in with this law. With that she can walk through the house, see what other roommates do, who they talk to, even what they think about, because one of these roommates might commit criminal offences. In doing so, the jurisdiction is far beyond an ordinary search warrant. Here's what I'm gonna do for you. By hacking a TV, one can watch in the living room all day. By hacking the smart meter, one can know when someone is home. By hacking the doorbell remotely, one can see who is at the door and by hacking the Sonos of JBL, you just listen with conversations all day. So that goes far beyond just taping or a regular search. My group is in favour of limiting the possibility of making a list of equipment to be hacked and establishing it in front of AMvB. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. The members of the SP Group understand very well that the digital world presents other challenges and are also open to discussion. Good guarantees are a key to this, and for good guarantees we also need good staff. In what way will the Minister ensure that there are sufficient finances to maintain and maintain digital knowledge among all investigators? I understand that there is sufficient funding available for the roll-out of this law and that training is required by law, but corps-based work could be much more efficient in the field of digital training. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister states that weaknesses will be reported as soon as possible if they are unknown and do not concern software created by criminals themselves. My question is what is "as soon as possible." Is it conceivable that "as soon as possible" covers a number of months, because this impossibility lies in the research interest? It will also weigh up how many innocent people are affected by not reporting these vulnerabilities. These considerations all seem vague to my group and leave a great deal of room for interpretation. The minister indicates in the further pleading a range within which one can think, but that range is also quite wide. These are, of course, matters which are not clear. Can the Minister state this again, also in the light of the Recourt/Tellegen amendment that has been adopted? Mr. Chairman. These were a number of uncertainties that the SP would like to see clarified. I would now like to turn to the last part and my final point. That is a crucial part of my group, because we are talking today about a legislative proposal with very far-reaching powers. We are also talking about all the guarantees that the Minister proposes about these powers. One of the main arguments is that the far-reaching powers in the law are only used for crimes in which there is a prison sentence of more than eight years. However, in the bill, the Minister refers to a minimum prison sentence of eight years, or crimes that can be identified at AMvB. If I compare that with Germany, where hacking is only used when there is a danger of life or danger to national security, then that is a big difference. Germany has therefore defined that competence much more clearly. As the law now describes, hacking is only subject to the requirement that there should be a suspicion of a serious crime, which is subject to pre-trial detention and which constitutes a serious breach of the legal order. This even makes it possible to break into an automated network of a suspect when there may only be a simple theft. A further tightening is desirable, but this tightening does not go through the Chamber anymore. Moreover, the rule that they may also be crimes that can be identified at AMvB leads to a weakening of the eight years and the Article 67 requirement. In addition, the government wants to implement this further regulation without any provision. In the written rounds, D66 also asked why this further regulation was not implemented with the provision. The Minister's answer to this is extremely lean, as is the answer to my group's questions about its implication. However, this is a crucial element for us. When completing this bill, sending an AMvB only to the Lower House, or to both Chambers, is really insufficient. After all, it would give the government every opportunity to make changes to the proposal as it now stands without the Chamber being able to discuss it at all, let alone decide. The answer that the government's policy is to minimise the burden on the Chamber with this kind of regulation is misplaced. This is not a question of executive regulation, it is a question of legislative regulation. If it is determined what the applicability of the law is, then it is part of the law and the parliament should speak about it. In addition, an AMvB can always be changed without a front hanging. That is unacceptable to my group. That has nothing to do with our trust in this cabinet, but with guarantees for the future. I therefore urge the Minister to include a provision in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with that. As a group, we believe that it is important to improve legislation on cybercrime to strengthen the position of police and justice. For that we have asked the Minister a number of questions which we hope will reassure us. The crucial question, however, is whether or not the Minister is going to include the provision. We will therefore listen with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u43	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Madam President. What do the Central Bureau of Statistics, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Johan Cruijff have in common? All three of them are right. "The common crime has fallen since the turn of the century," but "many things remain hidden," because "you can't see it until you get it." The first observation is made by the Central Bureau of Statistics. It investigated the crime figures from 1948 to 2017. The second quote, "much remains hidden," is from Herman Bolhaar. And the third one, you'd guessed it from our best football player of all time. Traditional forms of crime have indeed been falling for years: home invasions, theft of cars and bicycles, drug nuisance. We've known that for years. We have also known for a few years that new forms of crime have emerged. Its size remains shrouded in mists for the time being. Understandably, because they often play in the cloud and underground. Cybercrime and undermining, terror and trafficking in human beings, financial fraud and child pornography are often out of sight. Or don't we see it because we don't get it yet? A report from the Rathenau Institute issued at the request of this Chamber early 2017 suggests that the far-reaching digitisation of society raises fundamental ethical and societal issues, for which government, business and society are not yet adequately equipped to deal with. This puts pressure on important public values and human rights such as privacy, equal treatment, autonomy and human dignity. According to the Rathenau Institute, we are not powerless. With the right actions, we can give the digital society a responsible upgrade. The title of the report is Upgrade. In his response a few months ago, the cabinet already showed that it took this report seriously. Previously, it did so in the coalition agreement, where we can read that this cabinet wants to "stand for the Netherlands of freedoms, democracy and the rule of law'. We now know that this cabinet is serious, because the Minister of Justice and Security, as he announced last week, wants to strengthen the police structurally with special attention to the undermining of serious crime and cybercrime. He wants more and better police, substantial investments in countering cybercrime and international cooperation, for example through Europol, and €64 million for ICT facilities and innovation. That sounds good, very good. The only thing I want to say about this is that we should not think that we will be there after this cabinet period. The undermining crime has been able to take root for decades, first in the underworld, but also more and more in the upper world. This requires an effort of many years. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with our group. Then I have one more specific question. I'm getting closer and closer to the bill. In the letter of 15 June, in which the Minister announces his intentions, we read nothing about the EUR 10 million announced in the coalition agreement for the implementation of the bill we are discussing today. Would the Minister care to explain that? That bill, computer crime III, aims to improve the investigation process as it has been said a number of times today, and to improve the prosecution of computer crime by amending the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. With this proposal, police and justice will be allowed to conduct online research in computers, tablets, smartphones, but also in smart meters, navigation systems and so on. Investigation officers will be given more opportunities to apply different investigative actions in the detection of serious offences. For example, in the case of a very serious crime, such as trafficking in human beings or participation in a terrorist organisation, they can make data inaccessible or copy, and in the case of a serious crime, they can tap or observe communication. The online corruption of and the conduct of fornication with minors is also punishable. The proposal confronts us in many respects with the classic dilemma between safeguarding privacy on the one hand and detecting crime on the other. The Council of State was critical of the proposal. For him the proportionality was not established and he found that the covert intrusion was not sufficiently differentiated by the degree of depth of that invasion of privacy. He also had doubts as to whether the draft law would be compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. The Council also called for structural system oversight of the application of investigative powers, using information and communication technology in cases not submitted to the criminal court. My group, too, has raised critical questions in the written consultation on, among other things, proportionality, supervision of cases that do not come to court and a reporting obligation for the first stage of the investigation process. The government answered the first question from the CDA Group by saying that there must always be a clear social interest. Apart from the two examples, it was, unfortunately, not clear what should be understood as a clear social interest. As far as the history of law is concerned, my group considers it important for the Minister to give a more concrete explanation of this today. And I would also like to ask whether the Minister has taken note of the nine recommendations on police hacking powers recently published by the Privacy Barometer. If so, would the Minister like to respond to this again, in particular to the recommendations on the necessity and demarcation of this hacking power? The same applies to our second point, the supervision and control of cases which are not brought before the courts. Can the Minister indicate how he sees this monitoring before him, other than that, as we read, it will be a matter of random checking? In conclusion, what does the Minister consider to be the case, inter alia, of the Personal Data Authority's plea for sound independent supervision, to be transferred to a separate department of this authority or to the intelligence supervisor, the CTIVD? Madam President. In the broader context of tackling the newer forms of crime, wider than this legislative proposal, my group is calling for attention to be paid to two issues. For this purpose, I shall return to the beginning of my speech, to the observation by the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, Mr Bolhaar, that much remains hidden and to the appeal of the Rathenau Institute that action is needed to enhance society. As far as my group is concerned, this starts with the security chain of police, justice and justice, so that they can and will continue to stand up to the explosive growth of the invisible forms of crime, in particular the undermining of serious crime and cybercrime. The first has been able to take root in the first decades in the underworld of our cities and villages, with Brabant. I say it with pain in the heart. But to the great annoyance of many, this phenomenon has now been able to nest itself to a worrying extent in the upper world of politics and society. If we consider it important to remove this phenomenon, the undermining serious crime, to a large extent from our society again, I ask the Minister, would it not be wise to provide the multiannual plan presented by the Minister last week with a working way of looking beyond this cabinet period and focusing on the wider security chain? Reducing the undermining crime in the coming years will require a great deal of police and justice. In the opinion of my group, without the active help of courageous citizens, we will be asking too much from these authorities, the police and the judiciary. Then We shall ask them about it. Given the scale of the problem and the disruptive effects of undermining crime, no-one should look away. Owners of holiday parks and farmers do not, when they may suspect that they are renting out their buildings to drug producers. Car rental companies do not, when they can understand that their cars will be used for criminal activities. Notaries, brokers and lawyers don't, when they suspect shady cases. Mayors do not, when they know of illegal activities in their municipality. Hence my question to the Minister. Are you willing to launch a large-scale national campaign aimed at all Dutch people with the motto "don't look away"? Then we will do justice to the warnings of Herman Bolhaar and Johan Cruijff and hopefully in a few years' time the Central Statistical Office will find that the new forms of crime are also falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate and the meeting in connection with committee meetings and the expert meeting Executable review until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u46	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 34372, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the improvement and strengthening of the detection and prosecution of computer crime, or Computer Crime III. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u47	Madam President. I very much appreciate having an exchange of views with your Chamber today on the Computer Crime III bill. This law is needed to strengthen detection in the digital world. The development of technology has made it necessary to complement existing possibilities. It is very important that the rule of law can be enforced, including online. This bill will provide better means of detection for the fight against crime in the digital world. This will make the Netherlands safer. The Internet has quickly become a basic provision in recent years. It's about transferring money, booking a trip or ordering tickets. In fact, in everything in our daily activities, we are now fully focused on the Internet. It's become mobile, not house-bound anymore. But, yes, that gives rise to developments that also offer new opportunities for criminals. We have seen that, on the one hand, it is easy to get in touch with victims via the Internet, internal toplighting. On the other hand, we see that it is easy to protect criminal acts or preparatory acts from the government in that area, for example by using encryption and by moving anonymously on the Internet. More and more encryption is a standard setting in applications and online services. Investigation and prosecution in the digital domain are becoming increasingly important. It is important that the powers of the police and the judiciary remain connected to them. I also refer to the annual reports from the Public Prosecutor's Office for the last two years. An important part of the legislative proposal concerns the ability to access an automated work remotely, i.e. via the Internet. The police urgently need this power for several reasons. Data decryption is becoming increasingly difficult, not only because the software is becoming more advanced, but also because the provider itself is not always able to unlock the encryption. In the case of encryption of communication, the tapping of communication is pointless. The problem is not just about tapping telecommunications. It is also a matter of recording mail traffic between computers using a so-called IP tap. In addition, the anonymous use of the Internet makes it difficult to determine the origin of communication and the location of data. In addition to encryption, advanced cloaking techniques are available that can protect action, for example by the Torbrowser, VPN connections or IP-spoofing. The Torbrowser is a good example of a tool that is widely used for all kinds of exchanges in the field of child pornography and child abuse on the Internet. These kinds of developments either lead to the detection of serious crime, or they don't get off the ground at all. The development of this crime in the digital domain is therefore a threat to the security of our society. The public authorities must therefore be able to act there, in the interests of society, but also in the interests of individual victims or potential victims. Let me give you a practical example: a criminal group communicates via a protected network of mobile phones. The communication is well encrypted, so tapping is not effective. Only by entering one of the phones itself can communication be understood or read in unencrypted form. Public authorities must therefore be able to act to protect citizens from crime. Appropriate enforcement requires access to data of persons suspected of being involved in serious crimes. That word will come back to me regularly in my reply: we are talking about renowned crimes. At the same time, citizens have a right to privacy. Privacy, the right to respect for privacy is an important right. It is not absolute: an infringement of the right to privacy can be justified by a major interest, such as the importance of preventing criminal offences or protecting the rights and freedoms of others. The right to the privacy of the suspect should therefore be restricted, wherever necessary, for the safety of society, and in particular for the protection of individual victims against serious crime. I will work on this later on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Justice in replying to questions put by your Members. Another example from practice: heavy criminal activities are being prepared at a protected location. The police want to observe exactly what's happening in that building. Physical entry is not possible because the criminals are monitoring the location with cameras. Immersing into the cameras could help, but that is possible without using unknown vulnerabilities because it is an older system of which certain vulnerabilities are widely known. That is where we see an example in which the principle of subsidiarity, which some of your Members have referred to as an important standard, plays, so that you do not have to get involved in those unknown vulnerabilities. I would just like to mention this example in order to show that there are different situations conceivable. The legislative proposal complies with the requirements of Article 8 of the ECHR, as developed on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Justice. These are requirements in terms of the quality of legislation and safeguards against abuse. Then we have the aspect of the need, partly in the light of proportionality and the subsidiarity we have just mentioned. It is a very detailed legislation, which lays down clear rules on the circumstances and conditions which may give rise to the use of the power to intrude. This is a specific competence: targeted at certain persons and targeted at certain data. These are particulars and persons to be described in the D.A.'s order. Requirements are also laid down for the expertise of investigators and the functioning of the technical aid used for the investigation. And then there are strict safeguards for control and supervision. Intended efforts within the Public Prosecutor's Office are subject to central review by the Central Review Committee. There is an extensive judicial review of the application, both prior to the deployment of the instrument, which is the authorisation of the Judge Commissioner, as well as by the Judge at the hearing, and the case comes to a hearing. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights attaches great importance to that independent judicial review of the application of powers which infringe the privacy and privacy of citizens. And then there is additional system oversight by the Security and Justice Inspectorate. I will look at this in more detail later, particularly in relation to Mrs Sent's questions. The use of the power is transparent and verifiable. Each step of the bet is logged. Logging ensures a fully responsible application and is always possible afterwards to control the deployment and the operations carried out. Investigative reports from the JenV Inspection are publicly available, and finally will be reported annually to the Court of Auditors on that commitment. I will tell you now, but I will come back to this later: the JenV Inspection is simply a state inspection dedicated to the field of Justice and Security. So it does not belong to my 'butchery', so to speak, in response to the in itself understandable question from the PVV Group. There are several possibilities to enter an automated work. Sometimes the use of these vulnerabilities may be inevitable, but the police will not actively buy them. If the police come into contact with a vulnerability which is likely not to be known to the manufacturer, this will be reported to the manufacturer. In exceptional cases, it should be possible to continue to use a vulnerability temporarily. For example, when it comes to software used almost exclusively by criminals or even produced by them. Then reporting this vulnerability would not have a positive impact on the security of innocent citizens, but would only facilitate crime. Then you're going to tell the criminals: "Friendly friends, you have a vulnerability in your own developed software." Anyway, for those exceptional cases, there is also a heavy test for the D.A.'s office. I will come back to that later in response to Mrs Strik's questions. That decision to postpone will be reviewed within the District Attorney's Office and will then have to be submitted to the Judge Commissioner. Sometimes the use of third-party software is inevitable for intrusion. The supplier of that software generally does not provide any explanation as to the nature of the vulnerability used. Therefore, the use is also limited to the specific case in order to prevent the market from being stimulated for unknown vulnerabilities. If there is a need for new use, it is therefore re-purchased, but licences are purchased, in principle. I would like to emphasise this in the direction of Mrs Bredenoord. I will work on this later, too, but every specific case requires a decision of its own. When I ask what is a specific case, I'll go into it in a minute. One point that I consider very important, but which we have not talked about so much today, is the adaptation of the criminalisation of the digital seduction of minors to fornication. Sometimes attempts are made to make an appointment with a minor via the computer. This is also referred to as "grooming." Until recently, the police used the so-called decoy puber. That's an investigative officer posing on the Internet as a youngster. In the meantime, the judge has ruled that the text of the law does not leave room for the deployment of an older investigative officer as a decoy. It is therefore proposed to amend the law on this point so that this practice can be restored. Of course, the so-called Tallon criterion is taken into account. That means that the police are in no way guilty of entrapment. It has already been referred to by your members, but this is indeed one of the issues of cybercrime that I have committed myself to, especially when it comes to the vulnerability of children on and over the Internet. One of your members already referred to the really dramatic increase in the number of reports of child pornography on the Internet in recent years. This indicates the need to take further action against it. This bill goes only on this point in the context of the previous legislation, but I am also working on more regulation in this area. Madam President. I now come to the questions that have been asked. I would like to take a little bit of tension away from the whole, because I am going to say here that the review of the law will take place two years after it enters into force. In my view, that makes the whole much clearer, especially on a subject like this, which is very sensitive to technological developments in the coming period but where we are all also somewhat unknown. Also in the coalition agreement 2017-2021 it says that we do not do that after five years but after two years, but I thought it would be good to say that right now, because then we know what we are talking about. A large number of you have asked about the safeguards in the application of that competence. I have made that clear once again, if that is all right with you. There are strict safeguards for the use of the power to intrude and carry out investigative acts in an automated work. First of all, the criterion of urgency must be met. That is just literally stated in the law and that means that, where possible, other methods will first be chosen, such as the collection of data from service providers, the placing of a tap, the search for a place, a freezing order or, as in the case I have just mentioned, known vulnerabilities of a widely known system. Articles 126nba and 126uba of the bill lay down what should be included in the order. I have just indicated in my introduction that this is a whole range of specified data, but this also concerns the persons involved and the powers involved. If that order is completed in such detail, this means that the Public Prosecutor, as well as the Central Review Committee, the College of Attorneys General and the Judge Commissioner, can properly and carefully assess the various aspects of the deployment. The order is also the basis for supervision by the JenV Inspection. It is very important that there is always transparency towards this inspection: what has happened in all cases or in a specific case? I've only said that for a moment. So what's the warrant supposed to say? The offence on which the order is given, an indication identifying the automated work and facts and circumstances showing an urgent need for investigation and a serious breach of the legal order; see the preamble to the two draft articles of law. If a technical device is used, its nature and functionality should be mentioned. The purpose of the intrusion, such as the acquisition of data or the tapping of communication, as well as the time or period of entry, which part of the automated work is investigated and which category of data is involved. The inclusion of the category of data is essential to ensure that all kinds of data are not simply taken over. The order should focus only on those data necessary for the search. The proposed deployment is submitted within the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Central Review Committee, which advises the College of Attorneys General on the use of special PDO powers. The stakes then still need the prior authorisation of the Judge Commissioner, who tests the urgent need for detection on the basis of the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. The application of the competence is reserved for special investigators who have ICT knowledge and are part of a special team. The technical team is organizationally separated from the tactical team, which conducts the tactical search. I think it would be a good idea to emphasize that here as well. The stakes are carefully prepared. The ingress method shall be adapted to the nature of the automated work in order to minimise the risks to automated work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u48	You say the method is also recorded in the order. Do you mean to explain which software is used for ingress, whether it is done via known or unknown vulnerabilities and how it came about? Are those parts of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u49	All these data are part of the whole methodical approach, because of course you need to be able to describe what you're going to focus on when you enter, what you're going to do and what the precise description is of the kind of vulnerabilities that are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u50	I assume that that order also has some kind of motivation for why that particular software or method was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u51	Yes, that must of course be done within the framework of the subsidiarity principle. At least the judge commissioner has to take that test. That should be done by the Public Prosecutor's Office if this is properly prepared at the rc, but the judge's commissioner has to take that test. If the judge commissioner can't check if this is really the ultimate remedy, it's back to box one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u52	I have some difficulty with the concept of 'extreme', perhaps also because time sometimes plays a role in the extreme. I refer to the crimes we are talking about here, for example trafficking in human beings. In his introduction, the Minister mentioned a number of steps that should have been taken first before reaching the limit, but what if the time is so pressing that these steps are skipped and that is argued to the judge Commissioner? Is that possible or is that just a theoretical story of mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u53	There was also a question from some of you: who is paying attention to subsidiarity and proportionality? Let me start with the following. A very clear appointment is: no intruder software for general use, only for a specific matter. That's what it starts with. In any case, you have already achieved that the locker in which the intruder software is located is very small and is locked. Only if there's a case, you can put a coin in it and you can use the software. So there must be an urgent need for the intruder software. That urgent need must be converted into an order that meets all the data I have just mentioned. This then means that in a specific case you get a purchase decision after consideration of police and OM by the College of PGs on the advice of the Central Review Committee and then by the Judge Commissioner. Then it may be so that the law says in these two articles................................................................................................................................................ But of course it may also be that the importance of intruders in order to be able to detect, for example in the context of trafficking in human beings, does not weigh heavily enough. I will give you two concrete examples in this way, and you must say: speed is best, but the importance is not so urgent that we are moving forward in this direction. Let me give you two examples: may I still do so? One example is the difference between a situation in which a child or child may actually be suspected of being abused and a situation in which there is evidence of possible systematic criminal exchange of information on young children, which could lead to abuse. In the first case, I think you and I will say that there is a certain greater urgency. Again, that order still has to contain the data that there is. We must therefore also show that subsidiarity is no longer a matter for discussion. In this situation there will be more urgency and there is therefore a threat of a serious breach of the rule of law rather than in a situation where there are not so much specific cases of abuse as a child pornography network.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u54	Finally, Mrs Gerkens, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u55	I welcome the Minister's explanation. I also think it is a good thing that he says that all these conditions must be met in the court order. What I continue to have difficulty with and which I am not reassured about by his reply is that the serious infringement of the rule of law remains rather tastyly defined, in the sense that it depends on who is listening to the request. The example of a child being abused, of course, appeals to us all, but of course there are many more examples where one sister and the other will judge in this way. What I'm looking for is how we get hold of the fact that there's not gonna be any abuse in the end. My group still finds that very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u56	There is, of course, case law on when there is a serious breach of the rule of law. That's why I didn't come up with these two different examples for nothing. One where in concrete cases there is suspicion of child abuse and one where there is more of a network of people exchanging all kinds of data. It is simply the case that in practice, even now, the police are mainly engaged online in cases where there is actual abuse. So that's what one does, but as soon as there's an urgent situation, one's going to look sooner. I do think that the Dutch case law has an extremely consistent line in this kind of situation. The test resulting from this article has all kinds of safeguards in the area of serious crimes in connection with other crimes, such as those laid down in the law, namely serious breach of the rule of law and urgent investigation. The Dutch court is very consistent in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u57	Maybe the minister's gonna be on the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u58	Yeah, I'm sure I'll get to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u59	You just mentioned all those safeguards that are in every case where you also said that it can be made clear to the judge-in-chief which individual one is targeted and what data one wants to obtain. If you start recording conversations in a family home, for example, you will receive data from many more people, including on topics you are not looking for. How will that be dealt with? I can imagine that as soon as it is recorded and it is immediately heard that it is not about the data for which it was issued, it can be deleted immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u61	And that's what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u62	Yeah, but let me get this straight. I also just said that that order should focus solely on the data needed for the search. So that order can't have some sort of fishing expedition-like description. That must be very concrete. By the way, I am telling you, but more so from my experience in a previous life, that even now, when they are going to look with permission in, for example, an impounded computer, they must focus very specifically on the data that is important for the investigation and leave aside everything else that is not relevant to it; that must not be looked at in any way or played a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u63	The word "fishing" does apply here. If you put a camera or whatever, you're gonna get all kinds of information that the warrant doesn't see on. It is indeed stated in the law that the nature and functionality of the equipment must be appointed. Should the police therefore specifically state why such equipment should be used in the context of proportionality? Because one device brings with it a much greater invasion of privacy than the other. Is that really required, so that the judge can check whether another device might be able to meet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u64	This is also the case where a technical device is used to define the nature and functionality of the device. I can't make it any better in that way. First of all, it's the police that comes to the state's attorney's office with the request. The Public Prosecutor's Office will then take that test and then the judge's commissioner will also be given the test explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u65	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u66	Our group feels it is very important that this justification should be given so that this test can also take place, for example why in a particular case it is not enough to tap or do something like that or with a device that goes as far as possible. I do not immediately get the impression from the term 'functionality' that this proportionality test must be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u67	I would also like to be of service to Mrs Strik. I have already indicated that the facts and circumstances which show that there is an urgent need for investigation and a serious breach of the rule of law must be mentioned in that order. If I, as an investigative officer, state that I have an urgent interest in using a technical aid, it is not a question of the nature and functionality of the case that I shall have to make the urgency of the matter plausible. I will also have to show that subsidiarity has been met. How do I do that? By arguing well and showing why other resources, such as phone taps and tracking, are failing. So the point made by Mr Strike is entirely justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u68	I'm also going to move on to my previous life, just like the Minister does. Do I have it right for my image that you could compare it to, for example, a search of the house where you are looking for weapons and then you can find all kinds of other things, including in the private sphere, which you just leave behind because you're only looking for those weapons? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u69	We have to be very careful in this. I have to do that first, because as a former lawyer I tend to discuss my whole life in metaphors, but we really have to be careful, because this digital world is not just the real world, translated into a computer. There are very different concepts behind it. If the police request and confiscate film footage for an investigation, they may only use that film material that relates to the facts on which the investigation is directed and not private film material or similar things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u70	I have another clarifying question, which is about the factor of time. The Minister has just outlined a number of, as far as I am concerned, good guarantees under which all of this can take place. However, we also know the phenomenon of rapid taps. I can imagine situations in which there is a great deal of urgency in a particular case in terms of time. Is there a separate procedure for this? There are quite a few safeguards and quite a few people who need to be consulted. How does it work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u71	That consultation will always have to take place. So you can't suddenly turn a multiple chamber into a single room, which means we don't do the judge commissioner. I have just mentioned that example of acute suspicion of actual child abuse in relation to the questions raised by Mr Gerkens. This could be a serious breach of the legal order, which shows that the other means of investigation are not helping. There is therefore an urgent need for investigation, which means that the procedure will be completed within one or two days. But that whole procedure has to go through. Mr. Chairman. I come to the question of the review. We also need to know what kind of issues we are talking about in general. These software licenses cost money, and the police are not going to bet them on people who are polypleger in the field of red light bikes. Let me take one more thing out of practice: a criminal group that deals with arms trafficking and, in order to secretly communicate with each other, has built its own communications network, with its own servers. That seems exotic, but it happens in practice. For example, we can see that in those outlaw-like gangs. The tapping of the telephone or e-mail traffic makes little sense, because the communication is completely encrypted. Breaking into the suspects makes no sense, because the computers are also provided with good security. If they don't like it, you can't get in. I mean, of course, breaking into the computers themselves. If you confiscate the computer, then the investigation is recognized and then it turns out that the evidence cannot be decrypted. So one must try to get into computers or phones to get to the evidence at the time it is not encrypted. The tactical search team can make a proposal to use the ingress clearance. The search team shall record the offences, the circumstances and the desired results of the deployment. For example, the team indicates that it is looking for communication data on arms trade, whatsapp messages or messages from the Signal app. The team may also indicate that there is a suspicion that there are secret records or draft ads for offering weapons on the darkweb on the suspect's computer or that the suspect's computer must be viewed from a distance when the suspect is active on the darkweb. The district attorney will then check whether that commitment is necessary, whether it is proportionate, and he'll be there again! (b) whether a lighter detection device can be used. The technical team of the national unit of the police is examining the feasibility of the deployment. Is it sensible to intrude, how should this be addressed, should it be done with or without the use of a technical tool, is there a real chance that it will succeed and what are the risks of recognising the investigation and of collateral damage to the suspect, but especially to third parties? A report is made of this and only when the police and the prosecutor are convinced of the need and of the subsidiarity I shall leave it very clear and clear in his statement that the officer is making a claim and an order. The order includes all those elements that I have just mentioned to you in a row. A balance will then be made between the objectives to be achieved, the available techniques and resources and the possible alternative means and risks. In doing so, the national officer is always involved for entering an automated work of the national parquet. That's a specialized officer. Only then will that claim, the order and the report of the feasibility study of the police, which I described earlier, be submitted to the Central Review Committee. That committee advises the College of PGs. The College of PGs decides whether the deployment is appropriate. I say to the PVV that this is indeed a very strong procedure, but that is simply to ensure that all those safeguards, which also belong to the ECHR, are properly implemented. Only then, so if the College of PGs has agreed, can the officer bring an application for authorization to the Judge Commissioner. It is again independent in the light of the above points. Only then, if the judge-supervisor has issued that authorisation, will the technical team start working on a technical preliminary examination and testing the chosen method in the test set-up. They'll see if everything works the way it should. And if a technical tool is used, it will be checked whether it can be set correctly and whether it does not have any unintended side effects. After that, if all this has been established, the actual ingress can only take place and the data necessary to comply with the command will be collected. Once the purpose of the investigation has been achieved or the period of validity of the order has expired, the investigation shall be terminated. I would like to stress that if a technical tool is placed, then it will also be removed immediately. The police server can therefore no longer receive any data. And then we come to the conclusion: then there will be a criminal case, let's assume that, and then the stakes will still be judged by the judge. In addition, apart from the extensive judicial review, the Justice and Security Inspectorate keeps a structural monitoring of compliance with the legal rules on the deployment and can request information on the implementation. The inspection may also require to be present during an operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u72	The Minister referred to the system of monitoring carried out by the inspection. It was also said at the expert meeting: the problem is that the inspection cannot be checked for legality. It also has fewer powers. For example, she cannot hear people under oath. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u73	That's in itself right. The point is, of course, that you already have the ex ante review here. Let me take a look at the services, for example. The use of their powers is also subject to ex post system supervision, but there is no ex-ante judicial review. So here is the legality check by the Central Review Committee, which obviously wants to have done its homework well to the Judge Commissioner, but at least it is done by the independent judge, the Judge Commissioner. In addition, of course, when the case is brought before the Court, there is the question of the legality of the case once again by the judge. So there's that point. I have said before: it must all be logged. This means that the inspection has access to all those log data and can therefore do its research, let me say, completely unhindered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u74	This indicates that the inspection has been carried out with certain limitations. The Minister talks about the judicial review at the hearing. But there are, of course, many cases in which there is no judicial review, cases where there is no prosecution because it turns out that there is not enough. I also mention enforcement. You don't usually have a sit-down there either. We now know that ex post testing is very important for the learning capacity of the organisation. It is important to look afterwards at whether the assessment made is correct and what that means for other things. Several speakers have mentioned the CTIVD model. That is the model of an ex-post review, integral, which ensures that the system is properly and proportionately tested. So we have a relatively limited test by the inspection and we do not have in many cases a hearing judge who can test afterwards. Can you go into that? Is that enough if you look at the extent of the infringement that these hacking operations could lead to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u75	Now a number of things are being said that I have to return to, I fear. Last but not least, you say that there is a high degree of infringement. Of course, that is not the case when you see the guarantee procedure and there is a review going on, and I repeat it once again, both by the Central Review Committee and by the Judge Commissioner. That is also the point that I would like to reiterate once again that every case in which the consent is sought is subject to a check of legality. On the contrary, the comparison with the CTIVD does not apply, since the CTIVD has to check for a power, whereas its exercise itself has not been subject to a legality test. That is the case here. I would like to stress that we meet here. I had it on my next sheet, but I'm gonna say it now. The ECHR states in the case law that, in the case of Article 8, we attach the greatest importance to independent judicial supervision for the assessment of the legality of the proposed power and its exercise. I am sorry, the European Court of Human Rights thinks system supervision is very nice, but says primarily that it is also logical, you see it in the name, it is far, but also in the individual case, and I paraphrase from case law: judicial supervision is the best guarantee of independence, impartiality and a sound procedure. The European Court of Justice has a very strong focus on judicial review. It is also pointed out that legal supervision strengthens citizens' confidence and that the rule of law also applies to matters such as secret surveillance, and that is guaranteed in this proposal. I would like to say a few words about Mrs Sent's questions and perhaps also to suggest that inspection should be monitored. Maybe we can do something with that in the evaluation after all. I'd like to save that for later, if that's all right with you, Mr. President. I would like to stress that this law is very well organised, precisely what the European Court of Justice is asking of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u76	Finally, Mrs Strik, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u77	I agree with the Minister that the legality test is more important than the system test. But what I keep pointing out is that that legality test is only insured on the front. It's an authorization from the rc. The ex post review is not always guaranteed in every case if there is no prosecution or a hacking operation has been put in place in the context of enforcement. Then we're just dealing with the inspection. As the Minister rightly says: that is a system test and it is less surrounded by guarantees than a legality test. I'd like another comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u78	Honor who deserves credit, because I say this in response to questions from Mrs Sent on this point. I want to make a clear commitment here that we will look at the evaluation in two years' time to see whether and how this system monitoring has worked subsequently by the JenV Inspection. I would also like to say through you to Mrs Strik that the statement that a lot of cases will not come to court is not a statement, but an assumption, of which I have a different expectation. This is about (a) purchasing very expensive software licenses anyway, even though it's cheaper than buying the whole software at once, (b) large, complicated consent procedures let's be clear about that, because you don't make such an order on Friday afternoon at 10:00 a.m.; that really must be a pretty thorough story, and (c) big, criminal issues. I have not for nothing mentioned and described you two cases, in which we see very clearly that this is really about greater crime. So I would like to say here that I am fine to include that point of inspection, the concern that Mrs Strik has, in the evaluation in two years' time. I believe that this legislative proposal is an excellent way of meeting the requirements of the European Court of Justice, by that judge-in-chief who is once again reviewing what the Public Prosecutor has done. In some countries, it's only the D.A.'s office that matters, but here we still have the real, good test by the judge commissioner. Finally, I believe that there is still the test, in most cases, when the case comes to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u79	Just a little point, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u80	That is about the Minister's last remark. The Minister's talking about the investigation. I have also mentioned enforcement cases, which are previously disturbed or made inaccessible. Surely there's no post-trial hearing where the judge can verify legality? Then how is this ex post evaluation sufficiently secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u81	That too is an assumption, because the subjects themselves can commit an unlawful act against the government if it turns out that the government says not to do anything about it and that sand is thrown into the pit again. It has not been said at all that this is so, but I have already said that that inspection by the JenV (a) inspection is a national inspection. It is not an inspection which works under my instructions. On the contrary.. (b) it is completely transparent, because the inspection has full access to all log data and the investigation reports are available to everyone and (c) it is a system review, while the issue of legality has already been examined in the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u82	It would help me if the Minister could explain where his proposal on system supervision differs from the opinion of the Council of State on monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u83	I'll get back to you in a minute, because I'm going through everything right now. I will return to the subject of surveillance. I have already mentioned the importance of the European Court of Human Rights and its position in relation to justice. I would like to conclude by saying that there is provision for effective safeguards against abuse through a very clear proportionality and subsidiarity test set out in detail in the law. Mrs. Bredenoord asked what it means that the police only buy software in a specific case. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that the police would not buy intruder software for general use, but only for one specific case. The aim is to restrict entry into the market for commercial entry software, as the market for unknown vulnerabilities could otherwise be stimulated. There must be an order of actual commitment. That order shall specify the automated work to be entered and the data to be searched for in a specific investigation of certain persons. It is therefore very clearly defined, because that is the specific research on which the purchase decision must be monitored and to which it is also limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u84	Mrs Gerkens, one question on this point, because then the Minister can go on with his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u85	'The coalition agreement has been agreed', which sounds reassuring, but in fact it is not, because a coalition agreement is just a coalition agreement. If the cabinet were to fall tomorrow, that deal would be worth nothing. What will the Minister do to ensure and anchor that no third party software is purchased?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u86	It seems to me that this bill, for which I must leave the honour of submitting it to my predecessor and the previous cabinet, is now mine, so to speak. The explanation I give here is still a matter of state law in the future. I just defined what a "specific case" is. I'll match that 100% or one-on-one to the requirements that apply to the warrant. It should look at a specific study, on specific data and on specific individuals. This means that this is the definition of the concept of "specific case." That will be the case in the future, because that is the way it works, and I say it very carefully in this house. That sounds a little smart, but that's how it works, hopefully, under state law. Mrs Sent said that there should be good guarantees that no data outside the warrant will be taken. The D.A.'s order mentions which part of the automated work is being investigated...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The inclusion of the category of data is also essential to ensure that not all kinds of things are taken over. I just said something about that. By retaining the research in an automated work for investigators who have specialist knowledge and skills in the field of ICT, the quality and professionalism of the research can be guaranteed. The safeguards for targeted data processing are also available through the technique. The draft decision examines in an automated work lays down requirements for the establishment and operation of a technical device with which the examination is carried out and the data are recorded. In other words, the technique must also be set in such a way that there can be a very targeted search. Then you get systems like those developed by IBM a few years ago, for example the Watson program, which allowed you to search 200,000 emails in ten minutes for one or two words. We are talking about very different things here, but the technical aids really have to work very closely. The decision shall require that a technical device be designed in such a way that its operation can be limited to the functionality or functionalities specified in the order. Then you can also think of functionalities such as recording sound, creating screenshots, capturing keystrokes, or searching certain file folders and capturing data from them. Then there are safeguards in the separation of functions between the technical and the tactical teams. The results of the research by the technical team shall be made available to the tactical team. If necessary, the technical team may, on the basis of technical criteria, ensure prior filtering of the research data, so that within the categories of data included in the officer's order only the data relevant for the investigation become available to the tactical team. Mrs Bredenoord asked about the obligation to notify and how to prevent the storage of information from third parties. Well, by placing jurisdiction in Title IV of the Code of Criminal Procedure on special investigative powers, the rules on notification under that Title apply. There shall be an obligation to communicate in writing to the person concerned as soon as the interest of the investigation so permits. That's Article 126bb of Criminal Procedure. Notification shall be omitted if the communication is not reasonably possible. There is a case law in force in cases where it would not reasonably be possible. The obligation to notify is intended to inform the data subject that a privacy breach has been committed in the framework of the investigation. If more than one person makes use of the automated work in which research is carried out, they have been recorded in so far as data relating to them are to be regarded as data subjects within the meaning of the obligation to notify. In case of notification, the reason for the survey in the automated work is not given. This is not required under the legislation because it concerns notification of the use of a power. Notification shall not be required if the minutes of the application of a special investigative authority are attached to the procedural documents. In that case, the person concerned shall be informed of the exercise of the power through the case-file. The privacy of innocent third parties is guaranteed as much as possible. This is reflected, among other things, in the legal requirement that the automated work that is secretly invaded by a suspect should be in use. A further guarantee is in the function divisions that I have just mentioned between the technical and tactical teams, so that the technical team can completely filter them out. For the sake of clarity, the technical team is filtering out, with that already targeted technical tool, which is the data needed for the investigation. The tactical team will never see anything other than that. As Mrs Strik has just pointed out, what would happen to be by-catch is immediately destroyed. How is it handled if notification is not reasonably possible? The obligation to notify is intended to inform data subjects of the fact that the investigation would infringe their privacy, so that they can also bring legal proceedings. In 2012, the WODC carried out research into the use of the telephone and internet tap during the detection process. The researchers then concluded that the parquets examined comply with the notification obligation in 2011. However, it became clear from the report that the administrative handling of notification per parquet is different. As part of the bureaucracy action programme, I have already reported to this Chamber: Less rules, more on the streets, that some routes have been used to improve the administrative processes surrounding the use of this kind of special investigative powers. It concerns, among other things, the establishment of the so-called common PDO room. The cooperation between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office should significantly improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the administrative process surrounding the use of special investigative powers. Mrs Bredenoord asks whether I can indicate to what extent the Council of State's opinion on differentiation has been met. The Council of State advises to differentiate in the conditions for the deployment, depending on the different investigative acts. This differentiation is already contained in this proposal because the power to invade is linked to certain investigative acts. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the conditions for the use of the various investigative acts have been further differentiated. Following the opinion, the threshold of the provisional attachment crime for tapping, observing and deploying the target microphone has been maintained, but the threshold for recording data and making data inaccessible has been raised to eight years, partly due to the designation of that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u87	Perhaps the Minister will come to that, but I am referring to compliance with differentiation. I also drew attention to this. Is that still part of his response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u88	I'll get to that. What specific safeguards apply to the introduction of a microphone? As a general rule, the requirements for entering an automated work, namely a crime for which pre-trial detention is permitted, the urgent need for the investigation, prior consent within the CTC by the CTC, review by the judge-supervisor and execution by the expert detective officer of the police technical team. The microphone attached to the body shall be subject to the requirement for the officer to report it in the order submitted to the rc. Then the rc can assess the proportionality of the act. What criteria are being used, Mrs Strik and Mrs Gerkens asked for the decision to allow automated work to be used. This concept is enshrined in the Cybercrime Treaty of the Council of Europe. It is a device or group of interconnected devices, automated work, one or more of which automatically processes or processes computer data on the basis of a program. Any device that automatically processes data on the basis of a program falls within the scope of that concept. The Netherlands is committed to implementing that treaty. The legislative proposal does not exclude any kind of automated work in advance. Developments in crime are difficult to foresee. So containment wouldn't be future-proof. It is necessary that the automated works are in use with the suspect, and I come back to what I have said before, namely that ingress is necessary for the detection of serious criminal offences. In short, we have just joined 100% of the definition of the Cybercrime Treaty of the Council of Europe. Mrs. Strik...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u89	Now that my name is mentioned, I would like to ask the Minister the following question. He says that technology is going so fast and that that is why a concept has been chosen that basically covers everything. Of course, it is not the case that everything that is technically possible is also sensible to use. The question is whether you can solve all this only with the individual proportionality test, or whether you need to limit the type of devices you use for such operations. Different people have also asked whether you should not have an exhaustive list of the devices you use for that purpose. You might want to change it periodically. Then make sure that they are supervised, for example by the Chamber. So we know whether different devices can be used or not. That gives the judge the right to stand firm and also gives the Chamber the opportunity to keep an eye on what it finally agrees with. Indeed, as we have said before, the extent to which privacy is violated makes a great deal of difference in which device is chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u90	Yeah, but to be honest, I find that a little difficult. Then here we should decide when to use the device, if I understand you correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u91	Mrs. Strik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u92	It seems to me very sensible that there should indeed be some sort of balancing framework from the Ministry, based on a kind of proportionality ladder, on which apparatus can be used in which situations. I do not see how we are going to go about this in detail, but rather that a sort of balancing framework is being drawn up in advance from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u93	Well, I'm just thinking about that. The principle is that only if there is an urgent need for investigation and we have taken the subsidiarity threshold, if we say that nothing else is possible and if all the conditions of the order are met, there is the possibility of using such a technical tool for ingress. The test done by the Public Prosecutor and then by the Judge Commissioner is whether everything else could have been exhausted and whether this is the only means left. That will be quite different on a case-by-case basis. I have just given a number of examples of this. I do not think you can provide for legislation when which means should be used. You can foresee, and that's what this law assumes, that this has a very high threshold. There must be an urgent need for investigation and a serious distortion of the legal order, and all other means must be essentially exhausted. That'll have to be checked by the judge commissioner in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u94	Finally, Mrs Strik. And very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u95	We've already talked about the whole house being full of automated work. So it goes very far, even into the body. For example, a pacemaker has already been mentioned. Surely it is not so weird that at some point you define which devices are still ethical, responsible and proportionate to use for detection or enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u96	I didn't mention the word "pacemaker." Let me make that very clear. I must confess that my technical knowledge is also inadequate in order to imagine what that should look like. Apart from that, I shall come back to the same point. I really have to go back to that whole list of criteria that the warrant has to meet. That really is a hugely high threshold. But the most important thing is that the D.A.'s orders argue that and why this is the ultimate remedium. I have already said this on a previous question from Mrs Strik. Then it is still up to the judge to determine whether that is indeed the ultimatum remedium. This could vary from one case to another, so that people say: no, you can really just put a tap in here. Or: here you can study from across the street with binoculars what is going on there, as I have seen in movies. So that's up to the judge commissioner. Mr President, through you to Mrs Strik, let us be clear. We are talking about detection and a special form of digital detection. The general principles of detection remain, of course, valid. You must always be proportionate in the means you wager. I really don't think we should go that way. I certainly wouldn't think that was wise. First of all, because you're gonna run a good, critical case-by-case assessment by the judge commissioner. Secondly, I will come back to the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights says: let the judge test. So, as a parliament and a cabinet, let us not say in advance: "Dear judge, if this is going on, that device must be used. That's not wise. The same goes for non-digital detection. Nor do we have a list in which, as a parliamentary democracy, we have said that in that case you may haunt, or I do not know what, but do not tap, or anything like that. It is the judge who decides that on the basis of the general standards of criminal proceedings. I'm sorry for the long answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u97	That comparison doesn't work. I think that's the problem we have here. When the Minister talks about proportionality, he expects proportionality to be monitored. The problem with technology is that we do not see that proportionality at all. I can also see the tension field where we're going to go. I have just argued that we need to separate technology from this bill. Yet that is not entirely possible. There was talk of hacking navigation systems. There is a difference between hacking a tomtom or the navigation system of a Tesla. In addition, we hack the whole car. The consequences are far more far-reaching than hacking only the tomtom, the device. The RAI is already calling for: please leave the cars out of consideration; leave out the infrastructure, the bridges, the water and that kind of thing. Can hospitals be hacked? Can hospital records be hacked? There's a lot to be done with this law. I think we're looking for some framework, ethical or otherwise, of the devices we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u98	Okay, well, I'd like to give it a shot anyway. Mrs Strik's comment has inspired me somewhat. I would like to say out loud that the law is not intended for the hacking of software relating to equipment placed in the body, such as pacemakers or internal hearing aids and the like. So we won't have to evaluate that in two years' time. I'd like to say that out loud. I also very much appreciate the RAI's standing up for its members. It is actually the ANWB that would say that, but unfortunately there are also people in cars with bad intentions, where under conditions it can be useful for the investigating authorities to see what is happening in the navigation system. I would like to say one more thing about this bill. I've listed the whole line of safeguards from the law itself. Inside there are the sub-guarantees contained in that order. That must be the rule of law. Then we must be careful not to cause another counterwave in the rule of law, such as: certain techniques are and others are not. That is precisely up to the independent judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u99	I note that the Minister gives a different answer than his predecessor did in the Lower House when it comes to hacking smart cars. That is in itself striking. Once again, I would like to express my concern about the following. It is true that the judge is judging, but the question is whether the judge can always judge correctly, because it is only the question whether he can oversee all the consequences. This presupposes technical knowledge, which I dare to say here that not all judges have it. That is why we should perhaps ask ourselves here whether we should give direction or direction to the question of which device under what circumstances. I'm very pleased with the commitment about the body. I think this is very nice. I do not think we are going to get out of this tonight either, but it would be nice if the Minister promised that he would come forward with a further explanation so that we could discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u100	Well, no. I'd be repeating myself. I have actually also expressed my motto about this. I really believe that this is a legislative proposal which has very detailed safeguards in terms of the need and subsidiarity, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law. That's one. And two, within it, that order is another kind of sub-guarantee with all the points that need to be specified and accounted for, as I repeat, the facts and circumstances that would lead to an urgent need for investigation. That's where the public attorney's office comes in. There are technically specialized people at the state's attorney's office. It will also apply to the judiciary that the judges-supervisors who judge it will at some point develop a certain specialisation. I said earlier: Dutch case law is extremely consistent in applying special investigative powers and coercive means. I think we can have every confidence in that. That being said and hoping that my statement that it should not be about equipment that is in any way contained in the body is well included in the stenogram, I would like to continue and come back to Mrs Sent's question as to how far the JenV Inspection departs from the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State advises structural system oversight with access to individual files, proportionality and subsidiarity in the application and annual public reporting, because not all cases are brought to justice. It is also advised to make recommendations based on the monitoring. With regard to positioning, the Council of State says: to accommodate at the Public Prosecutor's Office, following the model of the CTC, with an external independent chairman. The JenV inspection oversees the functioning of the police under the law. The inspection is a state inspection with independent judgment, has access to individual files, has the powers of a supervisory authority under the General Administrative Law Act and also publishes annual reports. I am not going to repeat why the CTIVD system would not work here in a system of criminal proceedings and independent judicial supervision. So that's just really gonna be all over each other. The inspection therefore supervises cases which have been and have not been brought before the courts. Mrs Strik asked if I could explain why it is sufficient that not everything is logged. In response to the opinions received on the draft Decision Research in an automated work and in response to questions from the members of your Chamber and the Second Chamber, I decided to extend the obligation to log in to the preparatory phase of the investigation: the intrusion into an automated work, the so-called deployment logging. This will log all operations that take place during the investigation into an automated work. It therefore concerns both the preparatory phase and the actions carried out during the investigation phase. The operation of the technical infrastructure is also logged. On the basis of which criteria will the law be evaluated? Mrs. Strik asked you to do that. The evaluation of the law and the underlying regulation two years after its entry into force will assess its effectiveness and impact. At least the following aspects will be taken into account: the number of cases that can be solved in automated work thanks to the use of investigative powers; the application of jurisdiction in practice; nature and type of business; means of carrying out research; the extent to which privacy is infringed and its necessity, proporitonicity and subsidiarity; the scope of the designation of crimes in the AMvB.I'll be on the AMvB in a moment; the use of unknown ingress vulnerabilities specified in the coalition agreement; carrying out research by means of a technical tool for carrying out investigative acts; the organisation within the police and the prosecutor; the functioning of the supervision by the JenV Inspection. I'll have the last one right away. I would like to make a commitment that we will take this with us in two years' time. How does this minister prevent the use of powers from becoming too broad and therefore leads to censorship via the Internet? It is a power that is intended to enter into an automated work, based on that very precise description in the command. I'm not going to mention all of that anymore, but it's a narrow path you're allowed to take. The power is not intended for it, but is also not suitable for censorship on the Internet. In order to make data on the Internet inaccessible, the procedure of the proposed Article 125p of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be followed. On the basis of that power, the Public Prosecutor may order a provider to make data on the Internet inaccessible. Because of the interface with freedom of expression, that order also requires an authorisation from the judge-supervisor, but that is another article of law and another jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u101	May I ask how much time you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u102	I hope to be ready in 20 minutes. Would that be doable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u103	It's gonna work. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u104	The critical and independent supervision we have, I think, discussed quite extensively with each other. Then there is the general measure of governance. I told you I was gonna say something about that. I hope to be able to accommodate your Chamber on the following point. That general measure of governance was sent to you in concept a year ago by one of my predecessors. That concept has not changed as far as the list of crimes which could give rise to the application of Articles 126nba and 126uba is concerned, as is currently the case with the Council of State. For me, it is again a matter of state law that I cannot now give you the document now before the Council of State for inspection. But I want to promise that the list is exactly like it was last year. I have copied it here in thirty copies for the Members, and this is also really the list in the concept of the AMvB that lies with the Council of State. I would also like to make an unequivocal commitment that there will be no additions or changes to that list until the evaluation that will take place in two years' time and the debate with your two Chambers following that evaluation. Your chamber may be assured that this is the list, as I have it here. You can look for the differences, but it is really the same list as the one in the proposal that went to your Chamber last June from Secretary of State Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u105	Is it your intention to make that list available to the MPs, the spokesmen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u106	I'd love to, if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u107	Then perhaps I could ask you to hand out the list to the attendees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u108	I do not think it can be discussed in the legislative proposal. This list was sent to you last June. This is still that list. I say again that it will remain so until the time when an evaluation has been carried out in two years' time and your Chamber and the House of Representatives have been able to say what they think of that list as a result of that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u109	Is this a question that you urgently want to ask, or can you do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u110	Now, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u111	Then one interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u112	I hope that the Minister will also comment on my arguments as to why you should not include any different rules in an AMvB, because that is in the direction of the regulation. This is a gesture to the Chamber that the list will not change until the evaluation in two years' time. But do I understand the Minister that after two years the AMvB can be changed at any time and that the Chamber has no involvement in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u113	No, I said it very clearly, but perhaps I did not make it quite clear that I promise that this is the list and that it can only change it if the two Chambers agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u114	Is the Minister not too generous now by saying: if the Chambers agree? In my opinion, you said, and I was happy about that, that it is and-and that there will be changes only after the evaluation, so not before that time, and after consultation with the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u115	Yes, but then it is also up to the Chambers to give their opinion on this by means of motions or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u116	Are you talking about veils now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u117	No, there's not gonna be a front. I have made it very clear that this is still the list sent to you by Dijkhoff. This is also the list that is now on the Council of State and the list which, as far as I am concerned, is promised that it will be for the next two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u118	Perhaps the Minister will be able to describe more precisely how he sees the procedure in front of him if there is no pending procedure. I understand that the Minister says that if we want to change the AMvB, the Chambers will be informed about this and that consultations can take place. But are there certain deadlines within which the Chambers have the opportunity to discuss them before the amendments to the AMvB enter into force? I would like a little more explanation so that we can know whether we can have sufficient influence on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u119	There will be an evaluation of this law in two years' time. That evaluation shall also take into account the content of the AMvB. This means that your Chamber and the House of Representatives will have every opportunity to express their views on the content of the AMvB. Until that debate is concluded with both Chambers, there will be no change in the list. After that, I can't see it, because your Chamber, or the House of Representatives, can come up with a motion that goes a certain way that I don't know what it is. I really can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u120	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u121	My first question was: what after those two years? If the Minister intends to change the AMvB after that evaluation, will we always be informed of this? Now I understand that the Minister says: I can only oversee the evaluation and then we have to see again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u122	No, I said "up to the evaluation." If, after the evaluation, there is an intention to modify the AMvB, that intention will be shared with your two Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u123	Yes, shared, but I see a lot of disturbing body language here in the Chamber. In my view, the Minister's reply was very clear and satisfactory to me in the first period: there will be no change to that list for the evaluation and only after consultation with the Chamber. We also need to keep the state law pure. The only thing that may have been confused is whether it is going through the front-end procedure or in some other way. Perhaps the Minister can say something about this now or in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u124	Let me come back to that in the second term. I understand now that there may be a misunderstanding. I thought you meant now, and that's why I said, "No front-end procedure now." But I will come back to what will happen in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u125	In fact, I think it would be wise to resolve this confusing situation in the second period. Would you like to ask about what the Minister said, Mr. Van de Ven? He'll explain in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u126	Yeah, it might be helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u127	Are you going to help him? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u128	I am a little surprised about the whole discussion, because from the free news garage I have a piece from the House of Representatives, dated 7 May 2018. It states that "(...) is included in the government agreement 2017-2021 that the Computer Crime III Act will be reviewed after two years. The decision Research in an automated work is part of this evaluation. Your Chamber will be informed of the results of the evaluation. Mid-term amendment of the Decision is not foreseen." This has already been promised in the Lower House. Maybe this can be taken into account in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u129	I'd like to respond to that right away. I have intended to cast doubt on the fact that the changes have not been made. I think I've done that by now. And to make it even easier: there will be an informal veil in two years' time after that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u130	A state-law novel, that informal veil. But, Mr. Earthema, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u131	I would like to thank the Minister for sharing the decision on the designation of the crimes. You refer to it in your response to Article 67 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Is it true that I am missing the first paragraph here, namely the ordinary crimes on which there is a four-year prison sentence? That's not what it says at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u132	Well, but that is explicitly described in the two articles of law 126nba and 126uba. They already refer to paragraph 1 of 67. So we don't have to... This is literally copy-pastet from what was in the AMvB and also last year. Mr. Chairman. Then I hope I've mapped out that point for you, which would come first in second term. I think I have dealt with the AMvB issue sufficiently. I think I have also answered Mr Aardema's question sufficiently as to why the software purchased is only used in one study. It's a shame to pay twice, isn't it? But that's the deal. It is only through licences that the purchase price may in any case be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u133	I think Mrs Gerkens would also like to ask about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u134	What is the possibility for the Chamber to influence this list, which I think is far-reaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u135	This is the list that was sent to your Chamber a year ago. That's what I've been trying to guarantee. I'm not gonna take that off, and I'm not gonna do that. That's the list. Some of you have said in the first term that this bill has taken some time to be dealt with. I would like to say something about this: this is a very well-balanced list and that it does justice to... The criteria for the designation of crimes are that they are crimes committed with automated work, so that is computer-related crime in the narrow sense; serious communal crimes that are increasingly digitally committed and also have a clear social interest in ending the criminal situation and prosecuting the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u136	I just wanted to point out here that I see a great discrepancy between the words that this minister has always said about the serious disturbance of order and the list I see here, where for example, in writing and false travel passes. I think that's a pretty big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u137	If you don't blame me, Mr. President, I'm going to read from the law anyway. Let us be clear, it says: 'in the event of suspicion of a crime as defined in Article 67, paragraph 1, which, by its nature or its consistency with other crimes committed by the accused, constitutes a serious breach of the legal order'. So we need to always see it in conjunction with each other, in connection with different crimes. It's not about someone who for once committed falsehood in writing that you can just stop by. The law states that there must be a consistency of several serious crimes. Then this is also part of the list of that "in coherence."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u138	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u139	That is where the confusion lies, I think, because the law also states that further powers must be taken into account in terms of a prison sentence of more than eight years or fixed by AMvB. We now have the list, and my group's major objection is that there are things in there at once that we would say: well, we should not use that power to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u140	Okay, I explained it and I don't have much to add to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u141	Mrs Strik, but I would like an interruption on a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u142	In my view, there is a real problem here with the requirement of public awareness and also with the standards we have agreed on legislation. I have already paid a great deal of attention to this in my first term. I would like the Minister to take that up. As my group sees it, we can now vote on that eight-year legal guarantee. We can agree to that. We're all there. That's the norm. But then you can deviate via AMvB from the requirement of eight years imprisonment threat. So that's not an AMvB for effect, that's really an AMvB that can deviate from the main standard in the law. I referred to the designation No. 35, which is precisely said: in principle we do not apply it, it gives you unclear laws and regulations. Yet the Minister does so, with just the argument "maybe I should change it sometime and then it doesn't go fast enough." I think we'll find a way out of this. The requirement of awareness is really a problem here, so please give a slightly better explanation why it is necessary that this can be supplemented by AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u143	Also in the detection of offences where there is no legal penalty limit of eight years in prison or more, investigative acts such as making data inaccessible and recording data are necessary. As I said earlier, crimes committed by means of automated work have a clear social interest in ending the criminal situation and prosecuting of offenders. I can give you some examples. Computer trespassing in Article 138ab Criminal law, first paragraph; the use of a botnet in the third paragraph of the same article; the deliberate destruction of an automated work; the provision, distribution or possession of child pornography: these are all matters where, for example, the spreaders are well aware of the criminality of their activity. They often use effective anonymisation techniques to stay out of the hands of detection. I believe that this AMvB is extremely well-balanced and I would almost say justly give a list of crimes that need enlargement. Mr. Chairman. I had a few more things that play in a general sense. A number of comments have been made on the question of compensation. Due to the need for software inspection and careful preparation, it is unlikely that damage will occur in the automated work itself. If the application of the jurisdiction would lead to unexpected damage, the person concerned can of course report it to the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office and it can always be considered whether a sum of money should be paid to the injured party or whether a settlement is being made. If this does not lead to agreement, it can lead to an unlawful act and the person concerned can go to civil courts. In the case of lawful criminal proceedings, damage shall be compensated in so far as there are grounds for fairness. In the case of an innocent third party, the infringement will usually result in a compensation more quickly, as it will not give rise to the use of the criminal powers. In the meantime, the court has held that where criminal proceedings against a third party are disproportionate in an individual case, there is reason to believe that there are grounds for fairness and that compensation can be granted. Mr Van de Ven asked how the police prevented the search for data through vital parties. Can research in vital infrastructure also take place in criminal investigations and at what point will the vital party be informed? My answer is that it is very unlikely that the police will enter vital sectors, because the commitment will soon no longer comply with those principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Instead of intrudering, the prosecutor sends, for example, a claim for the necessary data to companies. That is a less far-reaching competence and it will be sufficient in vital sectors. Then, of course, the company is the first to be notified. Moreover, this vital infrastructure is closely coordinated by the police, the National Cyber Security Centre and others, such as the intelligence and security services, in order to contribute to increasing the digital resilience of the vital infrastructure. Ingress cannot be ruled out, for example, in the event that the service providers themselves have been infiltrated by a malicious party, but then data recovery does not have the intended effect. I also had Mr Van de Ven's question on civil justice, whether it could be made more concrete. I have already said a few things about this compensation, in so far as there are grounds for fairness. In the case of an innocent third party, an infringement will usually lead to compensation more quickly, as it will not normally give rise to the use of criminal powers. In the meantime, the court has ruled that criminal proceedings may lead to a fair compensation. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be the last to have a few general questions. I hope it's not too late. The security of the Internet, as a result of cybercrime policy, is a priority of the cabinet. In April I already wrote about this in the Cybersecurity Agenda. I'd like to refer to that. It also includes the 10 million for the implementation of the bill. There's a lot of investment in that. What are the criteria to waive a legal aid application? That was a question from Mrs. Strik. If it is known that the data is in the territory of another State, a request for legal aid will follow. In addition, this should be mentioned in the officer's order so that the judge-supervisor can exercise control over it. If another territory is not known, in exceptional cases and under strict conditions, independent action can be taken on the basis of a step-by-step approach as far as possible. In general, a limited initial claim, determination of certain features of the automated work or user will be launched. If further actions are required, the acquisition of the stored data will be sufficient where possible, so that the rightholder's powers of decision are not limited. Action in the specific case will be considered on the basis of criteria. These relate in particular to the effort required to ascertain the identity and location of an automated work, the seriousness of the offence, the degree of involvement of the Dutch legal order, the nature of the investigations to be carried out and the risks to the automated work. I also have an example. In the event of a dpos attack on Dutch vital infrastructure, which, for example, prevents the online handling of payments or threatens military installations, there may be an urgent need to access a server and make data inaccessible to end that dpos attack. Mrs Gerkens asked for clear reports to the Chamber when the law is passed. Following the entry into force of the law, I will inform you annually about how often the competence of the research has been used in an automated work and whether commercial penetration software has been used in that deployment. Through you, I would like to stress once again to Mrs Gerkens that the investigations of the JenV Inspection and the reports are public. Then there was Mrs Gerkens' question about the 10 million. The government has not yet fully completed the decision-making process, but at least 8 million are expected to go to the police. The rest will be used for the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the inspection. In addition, the government agreement invests in the police and criminal justice chain. Last week you were able to see and hear in the news that 64 million is being invested in ICT in the police. This is undoubtedly also, at least for a certain amount, intended for these activities. It is therefore heavily invested. This also happens in additional cybercrimere detectives and international cooperation in this field. We'll add 111 FTE to the national unit and 60 agents. The National Unit is about detectives. The 60 agents have specific digital expertise for the regional units. I told you, a national security officer has been assigned to enter automated work. It will be involved in every effort. Something has just been said about the expertise of the judge and the judge commissioner. It is important for good judgment. For several years, the judiciary has had its own Knowledge Centre Cybercrime. That knowledge centre, for and by judges, supports them in the judgment of cybercrime and digital detection. Investment is also being made in the judiciary. I told you that we still have final decisions to take on the exact amounts. What does the bill contribute to countering malware? That's what Mrs. Bredenoord asked. Sneaking into an automated work secretly and remotely is, of course, an excellent means of tackling crime related to the creation, distribution and deployment of malware, because it is precisely through that intrusion that digital evidence can be collected and the trading and use of malware is often used by the darkweb and criminal web forums. So you'll only find out if you can use that particular means of infiltrating. There was a proposal to have an independent committee oversee the notice-and-take-down power. Data on the Internet can be made inaccessible, either by an intermediary himself or by order of the Public Prosecutor, if there is criminal content. The removal of criminal information on the Internet by an intermediary may take place under a notice-and-take-down procedure if there is unmistakable illegal or criminal content. If the data is not deleted and there is a criminal offence for which pre-trial detention is permitted, then the prosecutor can use his criminal jurisdiction to make data inaccessible, but then again he needs an authorisation from the judge-supervisor. Prior judicial review is required in the light of the freedom of expression which may be at stake in an inaccessibility order. Mr Rombouts has asked a number of questions about the Cybersecurity Agenda. It's been presented by now. You also saw a follow-up to that last weekend. We have the plan Netherlands Digital, presented by the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. By the way, on top of that 10 million, there's another 95 million for cyber security. Mr Rombouts had a question about the Undermining Act. For the summer, it will be clear how the EUR 100 million will be used. Indeed, I would like to say out loud that the motto put forward by Mr Rombouts, 'Don't look away', is a motto that I certainly support in the context of that campaign, which relates to online child abuse and child pornography. In such cases, that kind of cybercrime, it is also very necessary to bring such a motto into society. So I wholeheartedly support that. Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd answered the questions by now. There are still some questions about the risks associated with maintaining unknown vulnerabilities. The last thing I wanted to say was something about that. I have already said that the agreements in the coalition agreement naturally make it possible to minimize the chances of that market being stimulated. I say this in relation to the questions put by Mrs Sent and Mrs Gerkens. Software is only purchased if there is a need for it in a specific case and, let us be honest, proportionality has been fully established once that threshold has been taken. Only companies that have been screened by the AIVD are being bought, and I have not said that this evening and do not deliver to dubious regimes. The latter are countries guilty of serious violations of human rights or international humanitarian law. Then, of course, because there are vulnerabilities in many species, there is room for consideration in the individual case, but the Public Prosecutor has a number of factors to strictly check. You have to look at the number of innocent people in organizations potentially vulnerable by that software, whether the software is used in vital infrastructure, whether it is regular and widespread in society, or whether, as I said at the beginning, it is a system that is mainly manufactured by and for criminals or is used almost exclusively for criminal purposes. You also need to check to see if a BOLO might become impossible. What is also involved is the probability that this vulnerability is currently being used by evildoers. Mrs Gerkens asked me whether I would like to specify what is "as soon as possible" when reporting a vulnerability. Unknown vulnerabilities will be reported directly in most cases........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The period of validity of the deferment authorisation has been left to the judge-supervisor, who will ultimately have to rule on it. For unknown vulnerabilities found by the police themselves and used for entering an automated work, it is reasonable to align the period of delay of the notification with the period of validity of the authorisation to investigate the automated work. At the end of the investigation authorisation, that specific investigation is no longer of major importance. Madam President. I have spoken for a long time, but it is an important and complicated subject. I hope your room has been able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u144	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Earthema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u145	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for the very comprehensive answer to all the questions that live in the Chamber. The PVV sees the urgent need and certainly wants these powers to come to the police for the fight against computer crime. The Minister once again clearly emphasized the requirements and guarantees that these powers should be met. As far as I am concerned, our questions, certainly on the evaluation period and also on the general measure of governance, have been answered satisfactorily, so that we can make a balanced assessment of whether we support this proposal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u146	Thank you, Mr. Earthema. I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u147	Mr. Chairman. It's sunny in here. Luckily, I can see the screen. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answers. As far as we are concerned, extending powers for police and justice to combat online crime is a necessary evil in the digital age. But we have all dealt with the strict conditions, demarcation and also scrutiny. The proportionality and subsidiarity of, in particular, the jurisdiction of hacking depends on the crimes for which this competence may be used and under what conditions and the demarcation of that particular case. I agree with the Minister's answers, including on what is a specific issue and also that the law is not intended to hack invasive medical equipment, for example. It's never for the invading of the human body for the purposes of detection. The Minister's replies on the monitoring of the take-down power were not quite clear to me. I'd like some clarification on this. Since the proportionality of the bill depends on when police and justice have powers to enter automated works, the content of the proposed AMvB is important. We talked about it. I listened very carefully to the Minister. In order to ensure that there is no doubt that we have understood each other correctly, now and certainly in the future in the event of any changes, I shall table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Bredenoord, Mr Schnabel, Mr Stienen, Mr De Graaf, Mr English, Mr Backer, Mr Striker, Mr Sent and Mr Gerkens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the law, per AMvB crime can be identified for which a competence to enter automated works is created;]] [[Whereas the relevant AMvB is currently before the Council of State for its opinion;]] [[Whereas Article 2 of this AMM contains a restrictive list of offences;]] [[Whereas the content of the AMvB is relevant for the proportionality test;]] [[invites the Government to submit these AMvB and any future amendments to this Chamber in advance, so that the Court can assess them in the light of the proportionality test referred to above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34372-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u149	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. Oh, Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u150	I have another question for Mrs Bredenoord concerning the legal anchoring of the motion. If I understand correctly, there's a request for a backup procedure. It is customary to legally anchor them, but where do I find that legal anchoring in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u151	You can see this as a request for an informal or material front, so that this way it is explicitly promised that both this AMvB which is still with the Council of State, even though we now see the list as possible future changes are presented here. As far as I'm concerned, you have a good anchor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u152	A promise for a veil is enough, you know. Legal anchoring is not necessarily necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u153	Then I hope the Minister is prepared to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u154	Thank you again, Mrs Bredenoord. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal has a very far-reaching and far-reaching content, in particular as regards the proposed hacking powers of investigative authorities. The experts expressed considerable objections. On behalf of my group, I submitted it to the Minister in the first place and asked critical questions. We have questions about the need and proportionality of the proposed powers, about the expertise and misuse of powers and about undesirable side-effects of the use of the means. We thank the Minister for his substantive and conscientious answers. I'd like to walk by a couple of points. In the first period, I drew attention to the undesirable potential side effects of the legislative proposal linked to the balance between withholding a vulnerability from the individual search interest and the public interest, which served to report vulnerabilities as quickly as possible. In doing so, we asked for specific attention to be given to the delay in reporting. The Public Prosecutor may issue such an order only after an authorisation from the Judge Commissioner. I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the factors which will play a role in determining a reasonable period of time. During the first period and also in the reply of the Minister, a detailed consideration was given to the justification of the infringement of the right to respect for private, family and family life. Questions have been asked about necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. The Minister has convinced my group that there are extensive safeguards against abuse. The Public Prosecutor, the Judge Commissioner, the Central Review Committee and the College of Attorneys General play an important role in this. Upon amendment, the law lays down more stringent conditions for the application of jurisdiction as the power constitutes a more serious infringement of privacy within the meaning of Article 8 ECHR and appears to be more in keeping with the proportionality requirement. I have asked the Minister a question, but have not yet received an answer, about monitoring compliance with this differentiation. We consider them necessary. I ask the Minister how the monitoring of compliance with this differentiation can be properly organised. There has been extensive discussion of system control, both for the legal protection of citizens and for identifying bottlenecks in the exercise of powers. The Minister explained that the Justice and Security Inspectorate will critically monitor and report on the extension of competence. The concern remains that there will be a potential gap in cases that do not lead to a trial and that there will remain concerns about the independence and powers of the Justice and Security Inspectorate. The Minister has undertaken to explicitly address the implementation of system oversight by the Justice and Security Inspectorate in the evaluation which will take place after two years. We welcome that commitment and look forward to that evaluation. From the point of view of the requirement of awareness, which GroenLinks has also drawn attention to, I still ask for attention to be given to the formal procedure. I wonder if the Minister is prepared to accept a formal suspension procedure in line with the motion tabled by D66. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is aware of the importance of a comprehensive toolbox for the detection and prosecution of cybercrime. My party had questions about the guarantees with which this is stated, and thanked the Minister for his conscientious answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u157	Wow, what a night sun about the chair. That's how it's supposed to be when you're in heaven, maybe. I don't know. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. It is also really necessary, I think, to show that and to assess whether this legislation will also lead to careful application in practice. We're talking about major violations of privacy. I would like to emphasise this once again, because almost every hacking operation will result in that infringement. The point is to ensure that this infringement is always justified. Otherwise, we are dealing with human rights violations. That infringement is a fact, but we must make sure that it is justified. The Minister has repeatedly mentioned the controversy of procedural conditions. He wanted to make it clear to us how careful that procedure is. For our group, however, the most important criterion is the scope: in what situations can this hacking power be applied? As far as our group is concerned, that scope is still butter-smooth. I've already said it in the first term. It says very clearly: eight years of prison threats. But then you can deviate from this standard via AMvB. The list that has just been distributed, for which thanks, also shows that it is interpreted and used quite widely. Now, the legislator, of course, makes high demands on awareness in the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. People need to know what they can be punished for. And they also need to know when certain criminal instruments can be used against them. And also the legislator himself places high demands on organization, hierarchy and legislation, where the law is the formal ruler. Much can be delegated, but this should not lead to conflict with the standard laid down in the law. Of course, that has to do with awareness, that people know where they are, with clarity. But it also ensures that the co-legislator's role is not undermined. That is why I also mentioned designation 35 of the Rules of Procedure, which was the result of a motion from the First Chamber, which was widely supported and, as a result, also became part of the Rules of Procedure. Why, I wonder, can't all those other crimes that don't have eight years of criminal threat just be incorporated into the law? Then there is no longer any conflict between a standard and the law. Then this problem is no longer a problem at all, because then it can simply be drawn up: either eight years, or article sister and so on. At least then we could vote on it, and then there is no longer a violation of the rule of regulation as we have established it. I have just indicated that the list shows how many things can still be covered: I just mention placing a recording and making an image public. It really matters to my group that we have not included these matters in the law here. Even the veil, even if it is a formal procedure, cannot completely replace it. After all, we can discuss this, but in the end we cannot completely deter the Minister from stepping up certain offences on the list. Nevertheless, I supported Mrs Bredenoord's motion because it is better than nothing. I am, of course, very curious about the further explanation given by the Minister as a cliffhanger for the second term, about how this will work in practice. Another concern that my group continues to take is the subsequent test. The Minister has admitted that the inspection test is a system test. This test does not take into account legality and has more limited powers. My group insists: it is perhaps an assumption, but it is also an experience that not all matters will come before the court. In particular enforcement will reach the judge's table less often. In order to ensure that there is a proper check of legality afterwards, we would like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Gerkens, Mr Köhler and Mr Wezel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Computer Crime III Act provides for different forms of ex ante review;]] [[Whereas the draft law only provides for a limited ex post review because not all hacking operations are subject to a judicial review and the inspection test is limited in its nature;]] [[having regard to the right to privacy at issue;]] [[considers it important to review the necessity, legality, effectiveness and proportionality beyond the end of the hacking operation;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee to review ex post detection and enforcement hacking operations against the above criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34372-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then we talked about the permitted equipment to deploy for hacking operations. My group welcomes the Minister's commitment that no equipment is allowed to be placed on, on or in the body. All right, I'll hear from the Minister later. In order to assess how wide the equipment is used and for what purposes, we would like a further commitment from the Minister that the evaluation will include an overview of the equipment used and for what purpose. Then we can discuss this in the evaluation, to see if this will not have to be regulated. Mr President, a final comment on the vulnerabilities. As far as my group is concerned, it can never be the case that the State is making our systems and our lives more unsafe or putting our privacy further at risk. We therefore attach great importance to reporting vulnerabilities as soon as possible. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it must be as limited as possible that the government itself actively cooperates by using software systems with unknown or known vulnerabilities. There is some degree of commitment because specific software equipment is now being purchased for only one specific case. But we are looking forward to the evaluation which will examine in detail how and how often this happens and in which situations. We hope that it will not only be checked whether it is an obstacle to effectiveness, but also whether it is sufficiently proportionate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. The Minister noted that the first term of the Chamber did not actually deal with grooming. That's what I noticed. I'd like to put grooming aside to ask the following question. This bill is about protecting privacy. When I started here this afternoon, I thought it was very individual cases where there was a serious crime, as described in Article 67 (1) of the Criminal Code. Gradually the debate came to me with the impression that there was a threat to the privacy of 17 million Dutch people. I had to get rid of that image, because I came back to my own approach: it's about a small group of people. Maybe I can point that in another direction. It concerns a budget of EUR 10 million. This is 0.00003% of that budgeted revenue for a budgeted tax and social security contribution of 283 billion in 2018. Now that this is not about the collectivity of society, my question to the Minister is, in fact, how many cases he thinks are involved in this bill, apart from grooming, where large numbers were mentioned. As far as the answer to my group's questions is concerned, the Minister has given a more detailed explanation which, if I understand correctly, was enlightening to me. He states in the note following the report on page 17 that there may be unlawful action and legitimate action. I read that as a side-arranger. This question arose from this: if you act lawfully, how do you end up with the civil court? If I understand correctly, the Minister says that in a lawful act, you are the third to go to the national police and, if it does not give at home, you then state that there is a tortious act. You're gonna end up with that civilian judge. Perhaps the Minister will see other ways of putting this before the civil courts. I'm very curious about that. But I come to other questions from the VVD Group which are important in this respect, but which have not yet been answered. Maybe that's because they were the last questions. Can the logging of the intrusion into an automated work be requested by third parties and will that information also be provided for use as evidence in cases of damage? I have also asked whether the national police or, where appropriate, the Justice and Security Inspectorate will proactively report any damage done to third parties, for example, if this is demonstrated by that logging. The last question to which my group would like to receive an answer is whether it is also being logged which commercial software and unknown vulnerabilities will be used to invade automated work, so that the functioning of this software, its vulnerabilities and its potential harmful effects can also be assessed. If these questions have been answered, then we can discuss them with the group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u161	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Mr. Chairman. I would like to give an example from practice. A 14-year-old girl takes a spicy picture of herself and sends it to her boyfriend. Legally, at that time, she is punishable for producing and distributing child pornography. However, this is not compared to real images of actual sexual abuse of children. However, the law does not allow for this, but in practice we see that judges and also the prosecutors are looking for that space, so that the balance is back in the law. In a law, we look for that balance between feasibility and clarity. We want the loopholes to be out of the law, not only for the criminal but also for the legislator. A good law is emotionless. Opportunity should therefore be avoided at all times. In this law we are looking for a balance between necessary legislation and desirable powers for the police. First of all, I note that there has been no response to questions from the PvdA but also from the SP on the re-launch of legislation. I am well aware that this is a law that has been there for years, but it would be nice if the Minister could promise that in his term he will ensure separate legislation, which is clearer to us. I also welcome the Minister's commitment that there can be no phishing expedition in his view. I thought that was a very important sentence. I have the small practical question to ask him whether a request to delay reporting the vulnerabilities always goes straight to the rc. We still have some concerns, to start with about the software purchase. The Minister says that this is in the coalition agreement. That's nice. This means that the intention is good, but if I refer to the year 2000, when the then purple cabinet ended the agreement not to use the extra financial space to reduce charges, it soon becomes clear that compliance with such a government agreement has not been legally established. If there is to be a purchase of third-party software tomorrow, there is really nothing to stop this minister or, for example, his successors. I would therefore like to see some more guarantees on that point. The minister says the judge judges the warrant with detailed powers. I am very pleased that the Minister says that this is not about equipment in the body, but even if we want to separate it from the technique, we know that the technique is moving forward and that we will soon know hybrid techniques where the apparatus is almost not detached from the body. The apartment's gonna know when I get home. The apartment even knows if I'm coming home or if my son or daughter is coming home. The apartment knows that. The apartment measures that to me, to my body. To what extent is that apartment still part of my body or not? That's a tricky question. It's a tricky question. I think the answer given by the Minister here indicates exactly the problem where our concerns lie. If the minister says that the navigation system should be able to be hacked because of the information, at the same time he forgets that this hacking might cause a fatal accident in a smart car. So he doesn't see the balance we're looking for either. That's where our concern lies. The Minister has come up with a list that we are very pleased with. At least we welcome the fact that we have been given that list here for confirmation, not so much with the content. He guarantees that this is the list that will be worked on for the next two years. Imagine that this cabinet will fall tomorrow and that the SP will come into power. I ask the Minister what the parliament can do to stop it and to influence it. If this is to be done with a veil, I would ask the Minister to deal with this as soon as possible. I must say that I find it bizarre that all of this is regulated by AMvB, because in our view these kinds of agreements really belong in that law. I refer, for example, to Article 139 on this list, which includes up to six months in prison. That's not by far six years or eight years. Now the Minister says that this must be seen in conjunction with the law. However, we believe that this is actually unnecessary. Let me give you an example. For example, if false papers are used in the context of a terrorist offence, then there is already a terrorist offence and then we do not need to name separately that there is also false papers. It is clear that I am afraid of the list and that in our view this AMvB is also different from the strict standards we have set. That's what worries us. Once again, that is not so much the case for this cabinet; it is going to be a matter of the fear of every cabinet following this cabinet. We are not reassured, because this kind of far-reaching competence is about the balance in the democratic rule of law. I hope that the Minister will be able to reassure the SP a little more in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u163	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his thorough and comprehensive answer. If I were to say "his perhaps very comprehensive answer," I could already hear him think: it's never good here either. So that's not what I'm saying. I would like to thank him explicitly for explaining the spending of the 10 million announced in the coalition agreement. I would like to congratulate him on the way in which he has tried to reassure us here. He spoke of strict conditions regarding the limitation of the order, transparency, monitoring and evaluation after two years. He has also promised that there will be a role for our Chambers in relation to the AMvB, on which a motion has also been tabled. In this dilemma of privacy, the fight against crime and conflicting interests, it is our group's view that now, after years of preparation, something is going to happen and we are going to pass that law here. The CDA Group does this in the confidence that professionals, the competent authority, the independent judge and the inspection are committed to doing their work carefully. Those are words that don't fall so often in the house like ours. We're talking more about what might go wrong than we're expressing confidence in most of the professionals who do that work. I have only one point of my own and then I come to the motions. I am actually disappointed in the Minister's reply.................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister kindly said that he wholeheartedly supports me, but that is the reverse world. The government rules and we support the government or we do not support it. I would be delighted if the Minister would accept my group's appeal by saying that I am going to launch a national campaign, not only on cybercrime but also on the subject of undermining, to encourage citizens and businesses to take their co-responsibility to fight this undermining and cybercrime together. And then we will wholeheartedly support him in that campaign and initiative. D66's motion is also sympathetic to us. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of it. I have to think a little bit longer about the motion by GroenLinks, because I have just seen it. I have two questions. Is this a matter of supervision in all cases that have occurred? That's what it looks like in the text or so you could explain it. Are we talking about a separate committee, another committee, or should we think about, as I have asked for in my contribution to the Minister, a separate section with an already existing body, such as the Dutch Data Protection Authority or the CTIVD? It doesn't matter if we need a new institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u165	I can answer the first question by saying: yes, that should be done in structural terms as far as we are concerned. Precisely because it is not settled in many cases, we want to ensure that every operation is subject to such a test afterwards. What kind of body doesn't matter to us, as long as a degree of independence is guaranteed. That leaves room for the government, for the Ministry to consider how this could best be designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u166	Obviously. I await the Minister's answer to the question of whether all cases should be examined ex post. Apparently, at that second point, you'll be able to fill it out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u167	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to answer directly. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u168	Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the two motions for resolutions, and I will answer a number of questions for them. I will therefore, on the other hand, try to remove an explicit misunderstanding. Mr Van de Ven raised the question of how many people are actually concerned with the threat to privacy. That is a point which appeals to me a little bit, because we must be aware of that. I have also set out a number of cases which, in relation to the use of hacking software, and also in view of the costs involved, the extremely heavy test and what the law itself says about it, are serious threats to the rule of law in the light of crimes committed. I would remind you that in the last century the right to privacy developed as a 'right to be left alone' in American justice. And that, of course, is something you do not directly associate with criminals and criminal organizations. The misunderstanding I want to remove concerns the following. I said in the body, internal equipment. I have even mentioned two examples. One was put to me, namely the pacemaker, but I also mentioned a hearing implant. And that's something other than to or on the body, because then we're talking about headphones and the like. I must admit to Mrs Gerkens that I myself do not have such a symbiotic connection with my home that I regard it as part of my body. I think that my neighbors would also find that a very unpleasant idea, but all of this aside. Then I come to a number of questions. Mrs Sent and Mrs Gerkens have given me a bit of strict support on the 2015 Hoekstra motion. In my view, the situation that was the subject of that motion does not arise here. I would like to say straight away that I have seen that there are indeed legislative proposals that have a high level of composition on all different subjects, but here they are all issues that are very direct in the fight against crime in the digital world. I can well imagine from a distance that you say that you do not directly place the part about the decoy in hacking software, which focuses on, for example, terrorist crimes or outlaw gangs, leaving out the word "motor" for a very conscious moment. So I understand that, but in the end, it's all categorized into crime in the digital world. I am very grateful to you for having this discussion this evening, because we really need to continue with each other in society in that respect, otherwise we will be lagging behind developments. Mrs Sent's wise advice on this point not to come up with composite legislative proposals myself, of course, I welcome it. Mr Van de Ven asked whether compensation could also be claimed in the event of lawful action. Yeah, you can. The injured party may go to the civil court at any time. In the case of legal action, the bar is high for the unlawful act of government but there is also, of course, a legal basis which is based on the criterion of reasonableness and fairness laid down in Articles 6:248 (1) and (2) and 6:2 of the Civil Code. Those are the reasonableness and fairness tests. Then it must be a disproportionate action. Mrs Strik said: the AMvB infringes the requirement of public awareness. Now, the AMvB provides for a list of offences for the purpose of implementing Article 126nba. I have to say, draft article 126nba. The requirement of public awareness based on Article 8 ECHR provides that it may be clear to citizens when the power is exercised. Under the ECHR, this does not have to be a law in a formal sense. An AMvB is also "law' within the meaning of Article 8 ECHR. Mr Van de Ven has asked another question about the logging and civil justice process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u169	Perhaps the Minister could also comment on the other part of my reasoning, namely that we have agreed a hierarchy in the laws and regulations which provides that the law is to be formalized, and that the lower rules are to be used to elaborate them, and not to derogate from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u170	I hope it didn't come across wrong, but in my first term I just quoted the introductory wording of the first paragraph of Article 126nba, because it actually contains the set of standards. That's a standard with a very high bar. I believe that we have been able to establish this with each other today, with most of us. That's a bar that also looks at "in connection with other crimes." I mentioned all that. I've said that the effect is in the AMvB. It contains a list of crimes not all of which have been committed for eight years, but the seriousness of which is linked to the type of crime that could seriously disrupt public order. That's an effect. I have said it before: I think it has worked out well in that AMvB. And I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u171	Well, I guess I'll have to get something off my chest. That AMvB is not an effect, but it is "indeviation from." I do wonder why, for the sake of clarity and the proper hierarchy of legislation, it has not been chosen to simply include those offences which do not then require eight years of criminal threat in the law. That wouldn't have taken much more trouble. The Minister also says that he will not change it at all in the next few years. So it could have been incorporated into the law. And if it's necessary, if anything has to be added, we still have the system of a law change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u172	The fact that it is not changed in an AMvB in the coming years also has to do with the evaluation period of this law, which is two years. I do not think that I have carefully submitted regulations to you for assessment if, for example, I would like to work on this list after six months, because I think that we really need to work on it. At least that's why we're leaving that list as it is for the time being. However, in the light of technological developments, that list offers a little more scope to say in the future that we should no longer have some crimes on the AMvB list, and others are, I think, a good thing. Mrs Strik rightly says that the main rule, the main point from which you are going to work, is in the law. These are Articles 126nba and 126uba. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van de Ven has asked a question about logging. He asked: can the logging be requested by third parties and can it be provided and used as evidence? Well, in the case of an innocent third party, an infringement will usually lead to a compensation more quickly, as it will normally not give rise to the use of criminal powers. In the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a proposal will be made that the injured party may apply to the Public Prosecutor for compensation. Logging can be used in civil proceedings. The police may, at the request of the judge, insert the data into civil proceedings to demonstrate the careful manner of working. Logging may also be requested by third parties, but there will be a need to be cautious in dealing with delivery due to the risk that the method of intrusion becomes widely known. Mrs Bredenoord would like to clarify the answer on the supervision of notice-and-take-down powers. I have said that there is already a judicial review of the exercise of the officer's powers through the prior authorisation of the Judge Commissioner. The court then decides on the destruction of the data. I therefore see no reason for further additional supervision. That is not provided for in the legislative proposal either. Mrs Sint asked how the check is carried out on the differentiation. The differentiation in the legal conditions is an essential part of this legislative proposal. This is the subject of the judge commissioner's review of the order. The Justice and Security Inspectorate will also monitor this in the framework of system monitoring. I shall return to that point in the debate on Mrs Strik's motion. Surely there was a very special question. If the SP comes into power tomorrow, what do we do with the list of criminal offences? I certainly assume that when the SP comes to power, there will be a government agreement and a new government. If that government wishes to change the AMvB with regard to the list in its policy and drive, it can do so in the usual way through the Chambers and the Council of State. I'm sure that's possible under the SP as well. Then there are the two motions. But first of all, I would like to say to Mr Rombouts that I am going to campaign for cybercrime to raise awareness and awareness, just as I have done recently with regard to social media. I admit that I will ask Mr Noordanus to look at this for undermining and to look at it for synergy. And that theme of 'don't look away', I will honestly tell you that last November I made a testimonial under that motto. But my performance was so inadequate that that video wasn't used. So the campaign has not yet started in this respect. And neither is my film career, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u173	I have a feeling the Minister has already gotten to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u174	Yes, I'm ready for the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u175	There has been talk of equipment, of which devices can and cannot be used. I asked you to include in the evaluation which equipment has been used and for what purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u176	I think that's what I said. And if that is not the case, then I have said so. Of course, that makes sense. Those technical tools are also in those orders. So they're definitely going to be discussed. Unless, of course, it's equipment in the body, because we're not gonna do that. Then there are two motions. I can be brief on Mrs Bredenoord's motion. I'd like to leave it to the House's discretion. When the AMvB is back from the Council of State, the AMvB and the further report will be published. After that, the AMvB will be made available to the First and Second Chambers for four weeks. The AMvB will not enter into force until after the Chambers have had the opportunity to express their opinion on this issue of proportionality if necessary. That is what I call an informal follow-up procedure. And if there is a change afterwards, there will be an informal procedure. Then there's Mrs. Strik's motion. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. That motion says that an independent committee should be set up to review hacking operations in the context of detection and enforcement against a number of criteria set out in the motion. I have already said that at least some of the criteria are subject to the system supervision of the inspection. I have promised that we will look at the evaluation in two years' time to see whether it is working or not. For the rest, I keep saying that the legality test is being carried out by the prosecution and the judge-supervisor. The European Court of Human Rights has said that it is precisely there that the test should lie, with that independent judge, and not with an independent committee. Unless that independent committee is made up of three judges, but I think that's an exaggeration. They really have to do it that way, and I have to discourage that motion. I have come to the conclusion and I am grateful for your time and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-eerstekamer-5.u178	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and the motions tabled.
