ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the amendment of the Opium Act. A warm welcome to the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u2	We have six speakers from the Chamber and the first is Mrs Helder from the Group of the Party for Freedom. She's gonna talk to us for ten minutes. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under article 13b of the Opium Act, also known as the Damocles Act, a mayor can impose a burden under administrative control, for example closing a house or local. This is conditional on the sale, delivery, supply or presence of drugs in the home or local area. However, this closure power does not apply if no drugs are found in a building, while there are objects or substances clearly intended for the cultivation or preparation of drugs. Think, for example, of certain equipment, chemicals or dissection agents. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today provides that the power to close will also apply in the case of such criminal preparatory acts. The mayor's power against producing, trading and possession of drugs is increased. By the way, it's a little double. Mayors can close buildings earlier, but there are also mayors who are currently lobbying to be eligible for the experiment with growing weed. I hope that these mayors too will soon be working on this bill. Mr. Chairman. I don't have to keep the minister in suspense for long. I can confirm immediately that my group is in favour of the bill. It is a step, I say: step in the right direction. I asked for more speaking time because I would like to use the debate on this bill to try to take a real step forward in the power of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the fight against synthetic drugs. The Minister visited the Brabant Zeeland Task Force. The Minister also spoke yesterday at the 35th International Drug Enforcement Conference. The minister said: "Drugs are associated with a 'happy time', as if it were part of it. I don't accept that acceptance. Behind a pill or 'line' lies a world of brutal crime, liquidations, money laundering, corruption, fraud and environmental crime. Drugs are the foundation of an undermining system, and drug acceptance lowers the threshold to maintain that system." Mr President, these are words I fully agree with, but rather actions than words. That is why I want to revive the debate on a safety net clause in the Opium Act. During his visit to the Task Force, the Minister must have heard about the great desire for such a provision to be made in the workplace by the agents in the fight against synthetic drug and precursors crime. During a general discussion on 22 February last, the Minister himself said that he was talking to Belgium and Germany, who had experience of a generic criminalisation of precursors, or substances used to make synthetic drugs. So it's nothing new either. In a motion adopted in 2012, my group has already asked about the possibilities of a generic criminalisation. Mr Kooiman also pointed out to the Minister in the past the importance of such a provision. I understand that it is not legally simple, but that only increases the challenge. And the stakes are great. The Minister said yesterday that the Netherlands is known worldwide as a producer of synthetic drugs. That is why I took the lead myself and prepared an amendment. I would first like to await the Prime Minister's response in the first term before submitting it. Or I can file it so that the Minister can assess it in the suspension of the debate, and then see if I should perhaps withdraw it. I am not talking about political success today, but about an adequate instrument in the fight against synthetic drugs, which the Minister is also in favour of. This debate may produce a balanced text that can be incorporated into the Opium Act. That is why I will now explain the amendment. The Opium Act regulates only hard and soft drugs, or list I and list II drugs. Precursors, or substances intended for the manufacture of synthetic drugs, are excluded. Article 3a (5) of the Opium Act provides that the Minister may prohibit a means without delay, but two conditions apply. Firstly, it must be offered to the Council of Ministers by ministerial regulation, and secondly, a draft general administrative measure with the same content must be submitted to the Council of Ministers for assessment by the Minister of the United States of America. That road is too long to be able to perform quickly. The only route is now the Anti-Abusing Chemicals Act. This means that the police must have encountered a particular substance several times in practice. The substance in question should then be included through the European Union in the Annex to one of the EU Regulations. Only then will there be a registered substance, against which Article 4 of the Preventing Chemical Abuse Act can be dealt with. This makes it impossible to respond quickly and adequately to new substances used by criminals. The cat-and-mouse game with organized drug crime is not won in this way, because before a substance is on the list, the composition has been adapted in such a way that there is another legal gap. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's response on this point, because, as I have already said, the police and the Public Prosecutor need an adequate instrument in the fight against synthetic drugs. To further convince the Minister: almost all countries in Europe now have legislation on the so-called new psychoactive substances. The Netherlands is far behind on this point. How nice it would be if the Minister could tell us today that we're catching up. That fits well with what he said yesterday during the conference which is currently under way. Because, in good Dutch: crime is constantly on the move, so we must move with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. A question from Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u5	I understand the background to Mrs Helder's amendment. She is right to say that it is still quite a complicated legal thing. I can see that, too. Wouldn't it make more sense to go through a complete legislative process instead of, with all due respect, chasing an after-after-after-after-night amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u6	Well, this is not "hunting through an afternoon after"; my group has been working on it since 2012. There has also been an investigation, on which the Minister said it was legally difficult. We'll find each other there; we'll agree on that. I then asked the Minister during several general consultations, the last time to this Minister. It has said 'yes, it is legally difficult' There we are again 'but Belgium and Germany do have such a provision and I will talk to it. The Chamber will be informed accordingly." So I thought this was a good time to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u7	I understand that the PVV Group has been working on this for a long time and that has undoubtedly generated a lot of knowledge. But, of course, it remains that we do not have official views from the Public Prosecutor's Office, legal proceedings, lawyers and the Council of State. Isn't that a little tricky with such a rather tricky authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u8	I think that the public prosecutor's position can be obtained quite quickly through the appropriate channels. I think Mr Groothuizen knows what that view is. But of course I am not going to make available the pieces I have received, I have to be honest in that too. I just started today. If there is a need to submit an amendment for assessment to the Council of State: I know that former colleague Van der Steur once chose that route, so I think nothing stands in the way of trying to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is a seven-minute speaking time here, but I had not taken it into account at all that it was a legislative process and was completely set to four minutes. So I think it's gonna be a little shorter than ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u11	Maybe you could talk a little slower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u12	That's a good encouragement. What's in store is the modification of the Opium Act. The idea, as Mrs Helder just said, is to extend the powers of the mayors. Now they can close up premises if drugs are sold, delivered or provided there, or are present for trade. With this proposal, mayors can also order the closure of premises if no drugs are found, but equipment, chemicals and cutting agents that make it clear that the property is an important place for the preparation or treatment of drugs. Anyone who has ever seen the series Breaking Bad can imagine anything about this. I can say that my group is not opposed in principle to the extension of the Damocles Act. We understand the need to have this sanction in the municipal tool kit. But I do want to crack some critical notes, including the existing law. It is being used more and more easily. When the law was passed years ago, it was said that closing buildings was an ultimatum remedium. It would only happen in serious cases to stop the sale of drugs. Now buildings are closed because there are more than ten hemp plants. An analysis of 271 court rulings shows that 30% of the house expulsions due to cannabis were illegal after the event, 30%! This is because there was no criminal drug trafficking or nuisance, but drug use and limited cultivation of hemp for private use, for example in the case of disease. Health situation and family situation are often not taken into account by the mayor. For example, in East Brabant drug-addicted residents lost their homes because of 8 grams of cocaine, 20 xtc tablets and 24 grams of cannabis. According to the Groningen researcher Michelle Bruijn, people are sometimes evicted for 5 weed plants or 50 grams of cannabis. Before closing buildings, the mayor should first warn those concerned, except in exceptional cases. But what we see in practice is that closing without warning has become the rule. How does the Minister view these developments? Mr. Chairman. According to the Minister, closing a house isn't a punishment, it's an order measure. And that is precisely from a legal point of view. But humanly, of course, closure can turn out to be a very severe punishment, sometimes disproportionate. Because if people lose their homes for this reason, they are also not eligible for replacement housing. They are often blacklisted and permanently lose sight of housing. Are we really tackling organized crime or are we hitting people who just aren't doing so well? My group agrees with D66, who stated in the written submission that a firm statement of reasons for the closure order is absolutely necessary. This should make it plausible that the drugs found are intended for trade or, with the new amendment of the law, that the inhabitants had the intention to commit a drug offence with the items found. It is also necessary to assess the proportionality of the measure in the present case. Is that how the Minister sees it? And how does the Minister promote that the mayors motivate the decisions well? What are the criteria? How's he gonna monitor that? And what conclusion does he draw from the aforementioned researcher's report that so many closure orders cannot pass the test of criticism? Finally, Mr President. The measures are designed to improve the quality of life in a neighbourhood, to strengthen its resilience in a neighbourhood. I can imagine that large xtc laboratories need to be dismantled, but how do you avoid closing a building and nailing the windows leading to a less pleasant neighborhood to live?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you. You'd have timed it perfectly in four minutes. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u14	Eight minutes, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a rather simple legislative amendment. Now mayors can close a home or local or associated estate if hard drugs and/or soft drugs are sold, delivered or provided there or if the drugs are present in the property for these reasons. This legislative proposal extends this power by providing for the closure of mayors' premises where there are objects or substances intended, inter alia, for the production of hard drugs or large-scale or commercial illegal hemp cultivation, i.e. preparatory actions. You won't have to wait until the raw materials are made of drugs. The SP also knows the sounds of municipalities that would like to close up buildings, but now run into walls, for example in Tilburg. There 3,200 liters of raw materials were found for the production of xtc, but since raw materials are not yet drugs, the mayor could not close the building. We therefore understand the call of the municipalities for an extension of the power of closure, but at the same time we would like to recall where that power of closure actually comes from and what it is intended for. Article 13b of the Opium Act aims not so much to evict drug users and small-scale hemp growers, but above all to close illegal outlets. Combating nuisances is the goal, for example the entry and exit of users and dealers. That's a lot of trouble. Think also of potentially dangerous situations. You don't want them in residential neighborhoods, so you want to be able to shut down dope houses. But when is something a drug house? During the treatment of the Damocles Act, as is also referred to in Article 13b of the Opium Act, the government considered that it was sufficient only to find a commercial quantity of narcotic drugs to close down premises. The government also said at that time that the closure of a house should be seen as a last resort, but nowadays the closure of houses without prior warning is the order of the day. So the law has been stretched over those years. There's a danger in that. Mayors are regularly flagged back by the judge, for example in Angelique's case. We were able to read that in the Brabants Dagblad and colleague Van Toorenburg asked questions about it. In 2015, two ecstasy pills and 129 grams of hemp were found in her home, left by her ex. She was thrown out with her son. Two years later, she got her right from the judge: they shouldn't have been evicted because of her ex's excessive amount of drugs. So this wasn't a drug house with a walk to the property for which the law is intended. Unfortunately, there are many and many more examples of this kind. As Mr Buitenweg said, 30% of the house expulsions due to the discovery of cannabis prove to be illegal after all, so three out of ten. That's what Michelle Bruijn's research shows. More than 1,000 people are evicted from their homes every year. There are also more of them every year. But if mayors are flogged back by the judge in three out of ten cases, that's got to give them some thought. I'm really worried about that too, because home evictions have far-reaching consequences for the people who live there, sometimes families with children. Or think of the people who grow cannabis for medicinal reasons. A house is often closed for three to six months. This means that the landlord cannot rent his property during that period, even if the landlord himself calls the bell. Residents who permanently lose their homes because of closure run the risk of being blacklisted or even finding a place to live. In Oss, for example, three people who possessed too much for their own use were evicted from their social housing with the consequence that they could not re-register for five years. Renting a private property is not an option because of the finances, but then what? People have to live somewhere eventually, don't they? That is why I ask the Minister to do the following. Does he think that in practice we have drifted away from the purpose of this law, the closure of illegal outlets? If someone has more than one user quantity, for example more than five grams of soft drugs or, for example, six hemp plants, is there any reason to label it as a drug house and close the house? Is it really a good development that more buildings are boarded up every year and the judge so often rejects the way in which the administration operates? What does the Minister think of that? Why do we not know how often administrative judges destroy the far-reaching decisions of mayors to evict families from their homes? If an investigation can analyse this, why didn't the Minister have these figures and why couldn't it be given in the note on the report when we asked for them? I am not necessarily opposed to the use of administrative law, because from the public order point of view, the mayor is the one responsible for peace and security in residential areas. But we also have, of course, just criminal law, which we can use to punish people if we need to. The purpose of this law is not to put people, families on the streets and to ensure that they can no longer live anywhere. That would be disproportionate. That balance must not be lost. So although I understand the extension that the drivers do not have to wait until raw materials have been produced, I would like to point out that extending the current law is not without risks. Are we not in danger of these cases happening more often? How does the Minister see this? Which tools are given to mayors to deal carefully with the extended powers? Is it being monitored whether mayors in the country are going to use this power very differently? Is arbitrariness prevented and are the differences in approach between the municipalities not too large? There's no evidence on the mayor, but he's gonna have a lot of responsibility. Because legal behaviour in itself can be punishable by the intention with which it is carried out. Then it's up to the mayor to clarify the intent. Is it true that the mayor will then be able to determine the actual circumstances as determined by the police on the spot? Is the single explanation of the actual circumstances provided by the police sufficient and what evidence of the person concerned is possible? Then let's talk about the void. I agree with Mr Buitenweg's questions that the long-term closure of buildings does not necessarily lead to improvements in the residential area. On the contrary, I would even say. How is this taken into account? Is it always useful and necessary to leave empty premises in which preparatory actions have been affected for months? Finally, the point that Mr Helder spoke about in detail and which was already proposed by former colleague Nine Kooiman in 2014 and earlier by other colleagues. The rapid emergence of new raw materials intended for the production of synthetic drugs is almost impossible to keep up with by the Opium Act. Changing that law over and over is inappropriate. This takes too long, while developments in practice call for a solution. In my view, the Minister is well aware of this. He was pointed out on a working visit, including by detectives. A number of colleagues and I heard that last week again from the mayors and the Zeeland-West Brabant Task Force in a discussion about undermining. They urge the legislator to make the safety net provision, a residual category in the Opium Act for which much thought has already been done, again, explained extensively by Mr Helder net. I'm making this point again today. The SP's done that before. Today I am also making it very clear to Attje Kuik of the Labour Party, who cannot be present. From the Ministry it has remained silent on this point for the time being and I do not understand very well why. Is there no problem, according to the Minister, other than the detectives, the mayors and the task force in the south face daily in practice? If the Minister can explain this, it would be worth a detailed explanation. I appreciate the amendment in preparation for Mr Helder. I myself choose the way of the motion, namely by calling on the government to consult a legislative proposal. We are going to see in the debate how things are going today with the Minister's answers and possibly an amendment, but I myself have, for the second time, a motion that I will table on behalf of my fellow Members, should that be necessary, to ask the government to come up with a proposal on this point and indeed to bring it about by means of the consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you. Then there is Mr Groothuizen of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. Plants with drug laboratories or premises where drugs are present often cause nuisance. Dealers come and go, making drugs releases toxic fumes or a lab can explode. That is a clear danger to safety. At the beginning of last month in holiday park De Banjaard in Zeeland, no less than 750 liters of chemicals were found and toxic fumes had already damaged the cottage. As far as I am concerned, that proves the usefulness of the integrated approach. Good cooperation between police, OM and local government has caught the suspects and the mayor is going to look into whether closing the cottage is necessary. Zeeland is an example of relevant public authorities working well together. Where no building was closed in Zeeland in 2013, there were 35 of them two years ago. This integrated approach is also successful thanks to the mayor's power of closure. This increases the quality of living and living environment and improves local security. Moreover, the closing of buildings also has a signal function. In Article 13b, the Opium Act already has the administrative authority to close a property in which drugs are found, but not several colleagues have also underlined this if everything is there to make them, but the drugs themselves are not. That's weird. As if you can't expect Grandma's apple pie when you get home, the dough is resting in the fridge, grandma the apples are peeling and the oven is already being preheated. This amendment of the law solves that problem. The mayor can also close a building with this proposal if no drugs have been found, but is actually everything there is to make them. This removes a fringe of the mayor's administrative authority. But, Mr President, like several colleagues before me, I also see a number of problems. I understand the change in this power, for the reason I have just mentioned, but I do have a lot of questions about the use of the power of closure in practice. After all, research shows that the judge is quite often the mayor's whistle: 30% of home closures are unlawful. Of course, you can see that as a confirmation that our system is working, but only after evil has already been done. After all, an eviction has a big impact. As far as I am concerned, an integrated approach is a good thing, but I also know from my own practice that most of the time, especially the misfits are hit, and often several times: with a criminal case, a home expulsion and then often also a paid account of the energy society. Like several colleagues for me, but also for example the NVvR, I wonder whether the way in which the mayors use the power to close homes does not go too far. It's not for nothing that the judge whistles back to the mayor so often. Mr. Chairman. The mayor has in our right several foundations to close a house. For example, in case of disturbance of public order under the Municipal Law, or if there is a fear of health, safety or viability under the Housing Act. However, it seems that these powers are used much less often than 13b Opium Law. Probably it is because it is simply much easier to use the Opium Act. The policy adopted by municipalities for the application of this article has often laid down that it should be a commercial quantity of drugs. But when is that actually going to happen? When is it no longer a question of a quantity for own use? That's kind of hard to determine. Let me give you an example. In 2016, the mayor of Oss decided to close the house of a drug-addicted couple for three months. The couple were in therapy for an addiction, had three schoolchildren and couldn't afford another home. Only 100 milliliters of GHB and 14.5 xtc-pil were found in the house. Not exactly a record catch. I wonder out loud whether this type of closure is still proportionate and contributes to the objective of preventing serious nuisances. Isn't society much more served by successful closed therapy against addiction? I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees this problem and what opportunities he sees for Article 13b of the Opium Act to be used more proportionally. Mr. Chairman. The judge apparently had doubts in the case of my example, because he suspended the decision. That raises the further question as to whether this kind of far-reaching powers should not be taken into account by the courts. Should you not place the power of closure, especially in the case of dwellings, before the courts themselves, instead of simply reviewing a decision of an administrative body afterwards? I'd like to hear how the Minister looks at it. I would also like to ask the Minister about compensation for any damage. If a decision is destroyed by the judge, will the residents be compensated for that drastic measure and, if so, how? How complicated is it actually in practice to get you justice? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. I note that the proposed legislative amendment is a logical extension because there is a gap in the law. But I do have questions about the application of the power to close buildings, especially housing, in everyday practice. I hope that the Minister has ideas on this point to ensure that these powers are used in the right cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. "You can't say that you mind that criminals undermine society and at the same time find a line of coke or a pill at a festival completely normal. Users are co-responsible for the dumping of waste and other forms of undermining." It was a striking statement from detective Paulissen. He states: "It is only when drug users understand that they support organized crime with their ecstasy pills that they win the war on drugs. The police can't do it alone." It seemed appropriate to me to start with this tonight. Mr. Chairman. Several Members have clearly explained 'clear' I always say on purpose, because Mrs Helder always starts very neatly with what we are talking about today, so I am not going to repeat that. That saves a whole piece of my speech. As a CDA, we have often asked what we are faced with in practice if we want to close a building at the moment, because that is very difficult. We have also provided examples of this. We hope it'll be easier later. But I do support the various critical sounds that have been heard today: when is it proportional and when does it go wrong? Because if the judge corrects too often, it is obviously not good for public administration and ultimately not good for a community. Can the Minister indicate, for example, how he will ensure that the mayors are better trained when they have to use a particular measure or not? How do we make sure no mistakes are made? Because nobody wants to. We want to make sure that buildings are closed, but we also want to make sure that the judge doesn't say after that: it shouldn't have been allowed. I think it was Mr Grothuizen or Mrs Buitenweg who asked the following question. Suppose owners themselves are calling the bell because they really feel that things are not going well and there is no reason to assume that someone is in any way responsible for that. How do we protect owners who have a property that is difficult to sell, that is temporarily rented out and with which someone does something rotten? What if an owner thinks, "I don't want this to happen." He pulls the bell, but he doesn't have the guts to perform himself. And then he himself gets it in his face; it explodes. That's not what we want, is it? So that balance is important. I improvise on purpose, Mr President, because my text is too much of a repetition. I never like that. I don't think that's in my honor to do that either. I want to listen to what everyone else says. At the same time, I also think that we should look at the balance in the other direction. We, as a Chamber, visited our Italian colleagues a while ago. They said to us: "We are only now actually making real progress in tackling the mafia, because we show that even the little ones are really helping to make the big ones work. So maybe you shouldn't just focus on the big fish, but also focus on the little fish. That too is necessary." That's the balance I wanted to bring in. Mr. Chairman. I saw that the mayor of Rotterdam has written a rather solid piece that he presented to the city council, in which he says he wants things, goods and certainly buildings to be returned to the community much faster. I think it is important for us to hear the Minister again today. Does he have a bright spot to offer us in the sense that we can still take a step further? Earlier, it was possible with respect to a boat. We still want what is taken away to be returned to the community, precisely because we also do not want, as has been rightly stated today, that buildings are untied somewhere, because that does not make a society stronger. Then the population does not have the idea: it helps us when we indicate that something is offending. After all, they have no advantage. When you make something beautiful out of it and it is returned to society, people think at some point: wait a minute, who are actually my friends, is that the government or is that the criminals? That has often gone wrong in other countries. That is why the undermining there is often much greater. It's a way we don't want to go. In the written round we asked some questions about the finding of means of transport and large sums of money, as referred to in Article 11a of the Opium Act. When can this or not contribute to the closure of buildings? Well, you don't really talk about houses that often, but you talk about buildings and locals. Can't the minister reflect on that one more time? Of course, you want action to be taken along this road, and at least things can be seized. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the situation surrounding the residual provision. We've talked about that a lot. My predecessor, Mr Oskam, has also often spoken about this. I fully support the proposal that we should ensure that this residual provision eventually becomes law. Whether the proposal as Mrs Helder put it, including on the advice of the mayors and the task force, it is, I would like to hear from the Minister. I also hope that she will give it to the Minister quickly so that he can reflect on it. Otherwise, we will try to do it by means of a motion, because it is something that the CDA also says: make sure that we don't rush after the criminals to make something they change criminal every time. Because we've been to work in Eindhoven, and we know that the Chinese in particular are masters in turning a little dust into a substance to be fed, so it's not exactly what's punishable. And then we're all looking back at a situation like this. So it is important that we do the residual provision. It works fantastic under the Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet Wet and Ammunition. I think she can be very serviceable here, too. Thank you, Mr President. I, too, had one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u19	We'll give it to charity. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Arno Rutte of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. The preparation of drugs, the transit of drugs and the trafficking of drugs are at the root of serious undermining crime in our country. With only criminal measures, it is not enough to combat the undermining drug crime. An additional administrative measure, the closure of premises, is of great importance in order to have a direct impact on the undermining drug crime. This is a competence that mayors understandably often use. The illegal situation is stopped and the standard is restored. On 26 November 2015, my group colleague Van Oosten, together with his then CDA colleague, Oskam, tabled a motion calling on the government to "modify the administrative instruments so that it is possible for the mayor to close down buildings and houses in which large amounts of dissection or tools are found'. The law before us today extends the mayor's power of closure to cases where objects or substances that are clearly intended for the cultivation or preparation of drugs, such as certain equipment, chemicals and dissection agents, are found in a building or house. This bill therefore implements the 2015 motion, which was almost supported by Parliament. It is clear that the VVD welcomes the proposal before us. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, reports have come out of cases where the closure of a home would be unreasonable. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. I agree with the questions raised in the context of proportionality. Closing power is important, but it is really meant to stop the heavy situations. In the small situations it is often reversed by the judge, but then it has taken time again, and in the meantime people can end up in deep misery. Is that really the intention of the law? It is right that these questions should be asked. I am also very curious about the answers in this area. It has also been said that a homeowner sometimes reports himself and then ends up in misery. I myself was approached by entrepreneurs who indicated that they had rented a business property in good faith which was then closed after finding a weed plantation or drug lab, leaving the entrepreneurs with great damage. In order to help such entrepreneurs, I am pleased that the Chamber has adopted a motion by VVD, CDA and D66 calling on the Cabinet to investigate how a form of screening can be developed, so that business partners can understand in advance whether an entrepreneur is fluffy or not. I hope that research can quickly lead to action. A mayor must take the necessary care before he can close. In this respect, the principles of the General Law on Administrative Law apply, which lays down, inter alia, that the measure should not be disproportionate. Colleagues have already mentioned this. Can the Minister indicate whether and how the good faith of the hiring entrepreneur can or should even play a role in the weighting of proportionality? Indeed, I am thinking in particular of the situation in which the landlord himself finds that illegal activities are taking place in the rented property and reporting on them. That is not a hypothetical issue. Colleagues have already mentioned this. The entrepreneur who came over and contacted me, after the notification was confronted with a closure of the property for six months and had great damage. With regard to the remaining provision, I would like to join colleagues in saying that it is really worth doing something about it for once. I think it is very important that it should be done in a careful manner and that the Ministry should be given the opportunity to give its own interpretation of that residual provision. I do not rule out the fact that Mrs Helder has done a good job in this regard, and I can imagine that there will be mutual contact. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is very important that we limit as much as possible the serious undermining drug crime in our country. Today's bill is a good instrument for this. The VVD will therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u22	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Strengthening the approach to organised undermining crime is an important priority for this cabinet. Indeed, I underlined that yesterday morning. In order to strengthen this approach, as I described in my letter of 16 February, targeted measures are needed, including in the area of legislation. This bill is one of those anti-undermining measures, to which the trial of legislation prepared by the regional mayors has also made an important contribution. The legislative proposal gives the local government wider powers to close buildings in the event of criminal preparatory actions. It is an instrument that can effectively contribute to a stronger approach. Your Chamber also asked for this by adopting the Van Oosten/Oskam motion in 2015. So it is good that we can talk about this today. Over the last few weeks, we've been faced with this. I'll just say it. The most despicable excesses of organized drug crime, with the murder of the innocent brother of a key witness as a new low point. The violence we witness is driven by money, large amounts of money. That money comes from the drug trade. That drug economy undermines every aspect of society and also threatens the legitimate economy. That drug economy also threatens our standards, values and security. There are neighborhoods where people are reluctant to report suspicious activities, maybe because they're afraid of reprisals or because they don't believe anything else is gonna happen, maybe because they see losers who make a lot of money in the underworld looking like winners in the legitimate world, or because they feel they just have to accept drug crime as part of life. We must fight this together with strength. The bill we are debating today in your Chamber also offers us additional possibilities. Firstly, it offers opportunities to deal with nuisances in neighbourhoods, so that the environment is safe again. Secondly, it offers opportunities to make the earning model of the criminals more difficult, if not more difficult. The bill allows mayors to shut down premises used for cultivation, production or trade without finding the final product, the drugs. These are premises where objects or substances are clearly intended for cultivation, production or trade. The proposal is in line with the course we have taken in recent decades to move from a purely criminal approach to a more integrated approach. This is an approach in which public authorities work together against undermining crime and in which there is an important role for the mayors who can act under administrative law. This legislative proposal aims to extend the already existing closure power in the Opium Act. This instrument has already proved its worth in the integrated approach. The criminal circuit will always be looking for alternative ways of operating. This means that the current instruments are not always sufficient. Many examples have been presented where drug crime is evident and where only criminal action can now be taken. Those are also mentioned in the pieces. The purpose of this proposal is to enable the integrated approach to be applied in these situations as well. This is an important addition. I would like to stress once again that closure is not a punitive sanction, but an administrative recovery sanction which ends the infringement and prevents recurrence. Closure focuses on the property used for committing criminal offences. Criminal justice is targeting the perpetrator. I looked this up again in the pieces. It contains the note on the basis of the report, which I made very clear on page 2 on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Court of 29 November 2017 on how it works with that recovery sanction compared to the punitive sanction, also on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. As many of you have stayed within the speaking time, I will spare you a repeat of that. But it's very clear there. In conclusion, I believe that the legislative proposal makes a good and necessary contribution to tackling drug crime and undermining. I am of course happy to answer the questions raised by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u24	In my contribution, I said that it is indeed only a legal measure of order. It is therefore not a punitive sanction. But my point is how it works out for people. It can indeed be seen as a sanction. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u25	Then I have to go into the world of people's experience, especially people whose premises are indeed closed, because it has been established that there are things in which one can produce drugs. Let us then assume that this happened without a lack of justification and with the application of proportionality. Of course, someone who sees his drug laboratory getting frustrated, because it can't and can't be closed anymore, may, in his subjective experience, see this as some sort of punishment. Because then he won't be able to make any more illegal profits. But from the perspective of society it is exactly what the Department of Justice describes. There is an offence. We want to make sure that this offence stops, so that the stuff that is being made is no longer there and the property is no longer accessible. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u26	That is the way the Minister looks at it, but he also knows that there is very often a situation where there is not a huge drug lab. How does the Minister see the situation in which a mother with a son of 18 with ten hemp plants is thrown out of the house and then nowhere else can find a home? Can she see that as legitimate punishment? Is that a punishment or is that really just an order measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u27	Look, I just mentioned the principle of proportionality. I'm going to anticipate the answers to the questions a little bit. I am going to say it again later, but I would like to say it to Mrs Buitenweg. There is, of course, an obligation on management to consider proportionality. You can also see this in the current case law. Then there is then a test possible by the judge. And let's face it, that could be all the amenities court. We must be aware that if tomorrow a building is closed by the mayor of the City of X in the street Y where drugs are found in the amount of a trading stock, then it is still possible for those of us who own or own that property to ask the amenities court for an emergency facility to suspend that closure. The Court of Justice will then consider whether this is indeed justified, in particular on the basis of the principle of proportionality. Anyway, those are considerations that the judge has to make at the time. I will deal with this in a more structured manner in a moment, but here you can see that this is an administrative recovery and not a punitive action. I would like to continue with the questions and then I will come straight to Mrs Buitenweg. She asked: how does the Minister view the conclusions of Mrs Bruijn's research report? The recent media coverage outlines the view that one in three closures by mayors would be unlawful. But that image in the media is, I think, unsophisticated. I assume it is based on Michelle Bruijn's investigation into 217 published statements on Article 13b Opium Law from 2008 to 2016. That examination shows that 30% of the lower court rulings justify the action against the closure. But if you look at it more closely, you will see that in most cases it is a so-called lack of motivation. The mayor can restore that by taking a new decision and motivating it again and then better. Mr President, what I also think is very important is that this 30% does not include the fact that the number of actual closures per year is many times higher and that a large proportion of those involved do not go to court to challenge the decision. So that 30% is 30% of only part of the closures, namely the cases that have ended up in court. In that respect, therefore, we really need to nuance the number exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u28	I'm trying to understand what the Minister's conclusion is that some people don't go to court. Is the Minister's conclusion that they then see this as a legitimate measure? Or can it also be that people have completely lost their way in the legal system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u29	It should be noted that the Netherlands has a highly branched legal system with good local ways of obtaining legal aid, also funded legal aid. So I assume that the proper system of legal aid, legal aid and justice does not lead to very large numbers of people not being legally put on a path that they could actually be entitled to. That's one. Secondly, the people who accept the decision do so for their own reasons. At least that means that the number of 30% of cases where the judge destroys the mayor's decision should just be much lower when you make the whole number of decisions. So, yeah, that seems like a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u30	I don't think the latter is possible. If we do not know the reasons why people do not initiate proceedings, I fully recognise that it may well be that they did know the way to court but did not go there for all kinds of reasons. I am just saying that the Minister cannot blame himself and cannot say: so all these people have actually accepted it. So I think it would be good if there were a little more research to map this out. So the Minister can't pull the figure all the way to himself, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u31	I think I didn't do that. At least I tried to be courteous by not dissecting it entirely. I have said that it is 30% based on 217 published statements in eight years' time. The number of closures over that period is much higher. Let us continue to speak in Dutch for the sake of argument, as Mrs Helder said, and say that there have been ten times as many. There's a lot more, but let's just say there's been 2,000 closures. That 30% is already going down by a factor of ten. So I think we should see the relativisation of it together. I would like to stress once again to Mrs Buitenweg that it may certainly be possible that people have not found the way to the legal system that came to them, so that they have not, in short, been able to find the legal aid that led to the closure being destroyed. But there is no indication that this would have happened more often than occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u32	On this point, I assume, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u33	The fact that many people do not know the way to achieve their rights seems absolutely right to me, but I think that is a slightly different discussion. I understand the Minister in such a way that he says: the investigation that would show that 30% of mayor's decisions are being flagged back by the judge must be seriously taken into account. I find that complicated to follow. I hear the Minister say it, but I do not hear the Minister put another figure against it. So my question to the Minister is: how many of the mayors' decisions to evict people by means of the Damocles law stays with the judge? Or the opposite: how much per cent of the cases is the Minister's opinion that the judge is going to whistle back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u34	As 30% of those 217 judgments by the lower court...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u35	271!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u36	I don't know about that. My text says 217, but if Mrs Buitenweg says it, I immediately assume that it is 271, with my own number being 217. 30% of the 271 judgments published have therefore been destroyed on the basis of a lack of justification, let me stress first of all. This means that the decision was not well or clearly motivated. The mayor can restore that by better motivating his decision. In 70% of cases, though a large majority, the judge simply maintained the closure. I just had a little discussion with Mrs Buitenweg about the fact that you have to put those percentages into perspective, because this is only about the cases that have come before the courts. All those cases that have not been brought before the courts because they are accepted on closure are therefore not included in the statistics. I hope I've been able to explain it a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u37	Honestly, no. The Minister does put the research of another person into perspective, but does not himself have the exact figures of what it is like. I notice that every year we see more house expulsions under the Damocles Act. We are familiar with the case law for which the law was clearly not meant to be. In certain cases, the judge finds that the decision was disproportionate, with major consequences: families with children on the streets. Then the question to the Minister is legitimate whether he is concerned about the development in practice in which judges regularly whistle mayors who have used this power too enthusiastically. So the Minister doesn't know how often that happens and neither do I. According to the investigation, it would be 30%, but that figure is relative to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u38	In fact, this question is almost entirely congruent with Mr Van Nispen's question, which I shall deal with immediately: does the Minister think that in practice we have drifted away from the purpose of the law? The bill made it possible to deal with drug houses. In practice, in certain cases, people use their home as a drug lab. This causes nuisance and public order problems. There may be occasional situations where the closure would not have been obvious, let me put it this way. In those situations, it is good that there is a judicial test. This could be a very short-term test, i.e. in the case of a provisional provision, whereby the closure may be suspended. In retrospect, it may even appear that that provisional provision was not lawful and that closure was actually justified. However, there is that possibility of the provisional application and there is also the possibility that the court in the main proceedings will give a final ruling on the closure. Michelle Bruijn's investigation is, of course, about the judgments of courts. At most, closures have hardly been destroyed. I think that decisions should be proportionate and well motivated, is a question from Mrs Buitenweg. Yes, I do. The mayor shall, on the basis of police reports, consider whether a closure is appropriate to end the infringement of the Opium Act and prevent recurrence. In doing so, he shall consider whether the adverse effects on the person concerned are not disproportionate. This is an important point, because you were looking at it in particular. A closure shall not have disproportionate consequences and shall be well substantiated. These requirements follow from the case law on this subject. Are we not in danger of increasing the number of buildings being closed down as a result of the extension of the law? That is a question from Mr Van Nispen. Is randomness prevented by different approaches to municipalities? Well, there's a ground to close buildings, so it's expected that buildings will be closed more often, namely in those situations where the drugs, the product, are no longer present, but the stuff you use to manufacture them are still found. In other words, these are premises where criminal preparations are being carried out in connection with drugs. They're supposed to be closed. Municipalities have their own powers and, in fact, always draw up an enforcement policy on the application of Article 13b. They often coordinate, as is the case for example with the five large municipalities in Brabant. National case law, of course, also indicates how the law can be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u39	The Minister reworded my question and then managed to answer it very well. According to the Minister, the question was: does the Minister think that the mayors should properly motivate their decision? He felt that they should indeed be well motivated. But my question was another, namely: how does the Minister encourage the mayors to properly motivate their decision and what are the criteria for a good justification? In what way does he want to monitor this, given that there are the necessary problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u40	Yeah, I'll have to take a look. I would have noted a number of questions which touch on this, such as Mr Rutte's question, whether I can ensure that the mayors are properly trained when they have to impose that measure or not. In reply to that, I also respond immediately to what Mrs Buitenweg says. It is primarily up to the mayor to finalise his motivation and to demonstrate the proportionality of these measures, but I am, of course, willing to contribute to the provision of information to municipalities on this issue in the implementation of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u41	It was a very sharp question from Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'm going on. Mr Van Nispen asked: when is something a drug house? What's the situation in the building supposed to be? There's no final definition for that. It is clear that this must be a property that can in any way be related to drug trafficking or production or its preparation. What I have done is to clarify in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal the situations for which the extension of the power of closure is intended. The circumstances in the individual case are very decisive for the assessment of the existence of criminal preparatory actions. With regard to the question of whether closure is a proportionate and effective measure in this situation, I cannot give a list of the cases in which the mayor can use the new power. Is it always useful and necessary to leave empty premises in which preparatory work is being carried out for months? In reply to Mr Van Nispen's question, it is up to the mayor to determine and motivate the duration of a closure. The mayor will have to be able to prove the proportionality of this measure before the courts. The same applies to the duration of the measure. I can't stress that enough. It is a recovery action and not a punitive action, but the mayor must be able to justify himself to the courts on these points. I have already said that municipalities are increasingly exchanging knowledge in this area. More and more policies are being developed, including between municipalities. Mr Van Nispen asked whether it was true that the mayor could suffice to determine the actual circumstances as determined by the police. Is it possible to prove that there isn't? Without proof, the mayor can rely on the police's administrative reporting. It's made up on oath. However, the case-law expressly provides the person concerned with the possibility of counter-video. That doesn't have to be hard. For example, a clear and consistent argument may be sufficient under circumstances to conclude that there is a self-use despite a slight exceedance of the limit for a trade quantity. Is closing buildings increasingly a good development? Well, Mrs Helder and/or Mrs Van Toorenburg have already pointed out that mayors are asking for this. The task force has made this very urgent. It is an additional tool in the fight against drug crime. I think it's a good development that we're doing this. Can or should the good faith of the hiring entrepreneur play a role in the weighting or proportionality? I'll answer that question in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u43	I hope the Minister will put my question a little in the context of my story. I have expressly said that I support this extension of the law, but I have a great deal of concern about the application of the current law in practice. I have mentioned several examples, as have other colleagues. In this context, I raised the question as to whether the Minister thinks it is a good development that mayors seem increasingly enthusiastic about using the current competence. It is my impression that the concept of 'drug house' is being abandoned in practice. First of all, there had to be a certain walk to the property leading to nuisance or a certain danger to the neighborhood. We see this in several cases in which judges have whistled back mayors. Does the Minister share those concerns on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u44	Let us say first of all that it is a good thing that the judge is calling back the mayor in those situations where, if I may put it simply, the mayor does not use this power properly. I'll leave it in the middle if it was disproportionate or otherwise. That's one. Two. I don't know if the mayors have suddenly become overenthusiastic or something. I think it is more of a question that this regulation is now beginning to flow into the administrative veins. It has just become clear to many municipalities how it works. As I have already said a few times, people are consulting and exchanging knowledge. The procedures are getting better and better. I also think they're more alert. I say with you that this addition to the law will increase the number of closures. But I think it's necessary, too. After all, there are still buildings where the criminals, or the people who produce drugs, are wise enough to take their trading stock elsewhere immediately. According to the current legislation, you would no longer be able to do anything, but according to the new legislation we are aiming for, you can also close the premises where the drugs were produced but where only the machines are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u45	I get that. That is precisely why I have said that I understand this extension. But against every example I set, the Minister sets an obvious example where it is logical and right that the building should be closed down. A case of obvious nuisance for the neighborhood, drug runners running off and off, dangers for the neighborhood: that's what it's meant for. But just a little more than a user quantity present in a building, left behind by an ex, and a property is closed. Then the Minister says: it is good that the judge then whistles back. But we have just pointed out that it sometimes takes two years for a judge to make a final judgment. It can have enormous consequences for those involved if, in retrospect, they have been evicted from their homes. I still miss that in the Minister's story. He does not sufficiently outline the consequences of this. I think he recognizes them, but I haven't heard it back in the Minister's concerns. I don't know what he's thinking about doing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u46	I have just referred to a case of a slight exceedance of the limit for a commercial quantity as an example of an argument or an explanation in which there is evidence against the official report of the police. You have cited such an example, as I believe Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Van Toorenburg have done. There are, of course, always issues that, quite rightly, are getting the newspaper because something has not gone well and that competence has not been properly exercised. That may have happened because the mayor had been misjudged before he took his action in terms of education, or perhaps because there was a misjudgement. This sometimes leads to poignant consequences; that is why it gets the newspaper. I come back to the point that, fortunately, there is a very good, rapid emergency procedure in the Netherlands, in which someone who happens to be able to refer it to the judge: listen, I am wronged here. Then the judge can suspend that decision. That means the closure's off for the time being. It is then up to the court to determine whether the decision has indeed been unlawful or not. Anyway, that's legal practice. We should not go into this too much of a case-by-case approach. However, I believe that I have always said in my speech so far that, of course, drivers must apply these rules in a correct, legitimate and proportionate manner. Thank you. I actually wanted to go to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u47	Well, Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u48	I spoke to a couple of mayors the other day. They were telling each other what course they had received in the booklet they were taking. I looked through that book. In fact, there are all kinds of courses of learning about the use of powers of this kind in particular. Can the Minister not take a specific look with his colleague in the Interior to see whether the case is sufficiently anchored, or whether the mayors are given enough? Isn't it much better to prevent than to heal by a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u49	I say this to you without long reflection. I also think it is a good idea to take another look at that. Through you, I would also like to emphasise, in the direction of Mr Van Nispen, that it is certainly important to me that mayors apply these powers properly. Even if I have nuanced that 30%, I say through you to Mrs Buitenweg, it is, of course, always the challenge to bring down that nuanced number. Then there was the question about the good faith of the hiring entrepreneur. I was already working on that. The fact that homeowners and other landlords are affected by a closure is obvious. But, there you get that point again, then it's not about punishment. The closure is intended to prevent recurrence. That is also necessary, as witnessed by the problems with drug labs and hemp farms in homes. Mrs Helder referred to a working visit which I made and which I believe the standing committee has also made. You were run by an Eindhoven neighborhood with a touring van "minitouring van" I regret to say. And then you could see exactly those properties, just in a very normal neighborhood, with ordinary, modest, hardworking people. One building with bullet holes, the next building where huge supplies of drugs were stored, and also a garage, amidst thoroughfares, where some pill stuff was prepared by two second cousins who had still figured in Pulp Fiction. In any case, they did so dangerously that they themselves were intoxicated at some point. That's why firefighters and ambulances were alerted. But it could have ended very badly for the neighborhood. You know that, because you've been there. I do not want to make it too much of a drama, but I would like to stress once again that these are really just the problems that happen to the people who live in those neighbourhoods. Mr Grothuizen raised the question of whether the power to close should not lie with the courts. It's an administrative decision. So it would be very complicated. You will forgive me if I go into a small piece of Juridica with Mr Groothuizen. The complicated thing is that the judge can't take administrative decisions. He can test them marginally, as you know. Then you'd get something very bizarre, which is that the judge takes an administrative decision that's only marginally in order. So that would just mean that we're going backwards in life. That's one. Two, I should like to say to your consolation, is that the case law shows that the administrative judge is perfectly capable of making a decisive assessment of their legality. So far, you can also see the 30% as a positive number. I would just like to say once again, I repeat, that there is the possibility of applying for a preliminary ruling immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u50	I understand, of course, that the judge cannot make administrative decisions. In the Awb system, an administrative body takes the decision and the judge can review the decision. Now, of course, the Minister is not only the Minister of the General Administrative Law but also a bit wider. And I can imagine that there are other models for a judge to make a certain decision. That is also what we do when it comes to banning a legal person. The judge can play a part in that. In civil proceedings, a judge can shut down premises. There are other possibilities. In my view, the fundamental question that floats over this debate and more debates is whether it is obvious that we should anchor this kind of far-reaching powers in administrative law. Or is it better to do it another way, where the judge has a more central role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u51	I don't think that's better. The point is to stop the nuisance and the breach of public order. It is not about the trial of the drug trafficking crime or the crime of drug production. It is about stopping the situation in which a property facilitates the production of drugs. When we invest that in criminal law, we come first, indeed, with very different safeguards, which have to do with the defendant in criminal law. Secondly, however, we are suddenly going to pass on the administrative measure that is necessary to a criminal act. And now I'm gonna say something special. The fact that someone is in a building where a trading stock of drugs has been found, I mentioned yesterday in my lecture at the IDEC conference in English the example of the single mother who has been pressured by a drug gang to make her attic available, perhaps means that the mayor, if one finds out, should decide to close that building, whether that shed or that garage or something like that. But that doesn't mean that single mother immediately as a suspect in drug trafficking...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u52	A single mother, eh, in Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u53	A single mother, yes. You're right. I was just... sorry. That single mom doesn't end up as a suspect in the bench. And you know, because there is such a guarantee of good administrative review with an emergency provision, the justitive has a good, fair chance of a fair assessment of the use of that administrative means, the closure of the property, without that justitive being considered a suspect. I think that is an important distinction. That's how I sit there conceptually or what do you call it? - Oh, my God. It is not easy for the European Court of Human Rights or the Administrative Court to say: this is an administrative sanction. I also think that does justice to the position of the rightful person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u54	It is good that the Minister, in reply to my first question, sees a little more space and dares to think a little out of the Awb system. He is right to say that the safeguards in criminal law are generally higher. That could be a solution, but there may be other possibilities. At the same time, in his reply, he is exposing exactly the dilemma, because he says: we must be careful with the safeguards in criminal law, because it has not yet been said that the single mother in question is suspect or possibly convicted. At the same time, however, the same lady on the administrative route is outside her home. That is precisely the tension on current development, where we are investing more and more powers in administrative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u55	But there is also a proportionality assessment. It is again much less at issue in criminal law, when a fact has been proven. But in administrative law, that proportionality assessment is in any case ahead of us. And let's face it, the mayor is ordered to apply this power in a proportionate manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u56	That is the proportionality test, which, in 30% of cases, the judge considers to be poorly motivated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u57	Yeah, badly motivated. That's what the judge says in 30% of the cases brought to justice. You could also say that in 70% of cases, the judge considers that there is no possibility of any discussion. I've nuanced those numbers before. I didn't want to do that again, Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to ask another question from Mr Groothuizen, if you will. I'm doing my best to get through it quickly. When is there a trade volume of drugs? When is it no longer for your own use? For hard drugs, more than 0.5 grams is considered as a commercial quantity. In the case of soft drugs, more than five plants are subject to a commercial quantity. If it is less than those quantities, it shall be considered as "for own use'. I have already said that a final argument that explains why there has been a slight overrun of that trading stock in the past has been met. How does the Minister view the development that closing without warning has become the rule? Well, when finding a small amount of trade in a home, it is usually warned first, provided there are no indications that drugs are being sold in or out of that home. I think it's painful that those indications are often there. So it closes immediately. The case law supports that line and I endorse it. Then I come to an important point raised by a number of Members of Parliament, namely the safety net clause. I am referring here to a provision concerning the availability of a certain stock of precursors. I can be quite brief about that in this first term. If I have the opportunity from the Chamber to find out again whether it would be possible to include a provision on this in a separate legislative proposal, then I would like to say that I will find out and come back to your Chamber. I would like to leave it at that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u58	That is a step in the right direction, so thank you for that. My question would only be whether it would help, of course, if I had to look at my fellow Members. Of course, it's a little weird, too, if that's rejected. I'm still struggling a little bit: should we set a deadline? I myself included in my amendment a text for an article of law with an explanatory statement, so anything to help it move forward a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u59	That's very much appreciated. I find it a little difficult to mention a time limit right now. I think we should get back to that in about four months, six months. I say "four or six months," because there's suddenly a hole in it, as you know. By September at the latest, we would be able to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u60	That sounds like a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u61	Then we could come here with what we've figured out. I can give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u62	That does sound like a deadline. I agree with you, Mr President. The only question is: a deadline for what? Is that a letter or is that a draft bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u63	Depends on what comes out of that search. Let me put it this way, because then perhaps Mrs Helder will be best served. That would be a letter in which we would also refer directly to a text which I do not, of course, have, but to what would then be a possible text. Then you can explain it immediately if the search results in negative "this would be a possible text, but for that reason not" or "this would be a possible text and for that reason it is." But we'd like to discuss it with your room first. Yeah? At least that commitment has been made to your Chamber. Then there is Mrs Helder's question about a generic sentence for the new psychoactive substances, the NPS. We are indeed talking about this with fellow services in Germany and Belgium. There we have first experience of banning groups of these NPS. We are exploring the possibility of introducing this in the Netherlands. The first experiences in Belgium are positive, but very complex and also need adjustment. So it's not a one-two, an abc. There was also a question from Mrs Helder about the weed experiment. Surely the mayors who take part in this are going to get to work on this bill? Yes, the experiment focuses on decriminalizing the supply to coffeeshops. Illegal cultivation will continue to be tackled. The experiment doesn't change that, not even in the municipalities that participate. Illegal cultivation and preparation remain undesirable and can be addressed by the proposed extension of the closure power. I am on my last two answers to Mrs Van Toorenburg. Does the Minister see opportunities to return what is being taken from criminals to the community? Now, the stolen criminal assets, the collection, fall directly into the state treasury treasury. Justice and security have no control over that. I'd like to inform you that the money goes to crime victims as well. Of course, it is an interesting idea in itself to give it all back to the community, but we need to avoid perverse incentives that will only be taken away if they are returned. A revolver fund is not possible, as the budgetary rules oppose it. Last question: when can means of transport and money contribute to closure? The power of closure is defined in Article 13b as an administrative burden. It is a repairable sanction, as I said, not a punitive one. That legal nature of the closure requires, according to the caselaw, that the relationship between property and drug crime is not too loose. You'd have that with a car or money. So the property really has to be a link in the chain of drug production or trafficking. That's my first-term input, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u64	Very good. One more question from Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I apologize if I missed it, but I also had a question about the settlement of damages. We hear sometimes it's a hell of a tour to get your damages compensated. I believe that the Minister has left that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u66	Let's see. No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u67	Pay attention, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u68	I'm really looking, but I don't have one here. I can't find him right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Grand Houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u70	Perhaps the Minister could take the question with him in the second term and then go into it specifically, if there are any bottlenecks, if he sees opportunities to speed it up. If people were unjustly evicted from their homes, it would be very acidic if they subsequently suffered serious damage and had to make a great deal of effort to get compensation for that damage. Surely the Minister will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u71	I'm just looking. However, I have answered here that legal protection is guaranteed in the General Administrative Law Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u72	Why don't we just take it with us in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u73	I'm sorry, I can't find him as soon as I can. I had it, but I can't find it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u74	That's okay. Is there a need for a second term? Mrs Helder, you have the floor, and everyone has a third of the first-term speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr President, I can be very brief. Thank you to the Minister for the answers to the questions. Of course also for the undertaking that he will examine the possibility of a safety net provision. He even set a deadline: September or around four months. Depending on what comes out of the investigation, there will be either a letter or possibly even a draft legislative proposal. Normally you count your blessings with a commitment, especially as a PVV'er. After all, I asked Bureau of Legislation to table the amendment, because at least the text will be public as I think the article of law should look like. I'll take my chances. I trust that the Minister will not withdraw his promise shortly. That would be a bit of a shame. Then we have an important motion from Mr Van Nispen. For now, I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u76	Very good. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that all the groups have said this evening that they could very well imagine that this extension of competence in the instruments of a mayor was necessary or desirable. I had the impression that the Minister kept calling for this, but that point was actually already in place. One of the main points made by many colleagues, and also by me, was the concern about implementation. I found that the Minister was very patient about that. He talked very much about the figures and didn't mention very much himself in how many cases there is actually a problem. He can always refer to the judge, but people already have a problem. Hence my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 30% of house expulsions are subsequently declared unlawful because of cannabis;]] [[Whereas these removals have enormous consequences for the persons concerned and are perceived as punishment;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the use of administrative closure powers for legality, due diligence in the application and impact on data subjects and to inform the Court of Justice annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34763-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u78	I would like to do so because we will have the facts and we will then be able to discuss this further with each other, while we will have to do so at the moment with a report which is disputed by the Minister. It's nice if there's something opposite that's also contained in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u80	I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this law. I do that because I think it's a good law. I understand the extension of the power of closure. So a mayor doesn't have to wait until drugs are made from found raw materials. But my concerns about the effect in practice have not been removed. I fully agree with the comments made by Mr Buitenweg on this. I think it is too often wrong, for example in the case of a small quantity of trade. I would like to point out once again that a removal of residence can have enormous consequences. People end up on blacklists, can't get a rental house until the end of the day and are actually more or less banned from the community where they lived. So that has a huge impact. That's why it's all the more disturbing when it's finally flagged back by the judge. The Minister can say that this is good because the system will work, but the huge consequences will not be reduced. That is precisely why I, together with GroenLinks, tabled the motion that has just been read out. The Minister gave a favourable response to the safety net clause. In order to give direction to the investigation, I submit the motion already announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a complex detour (pre-) precursors intended for the manufacture of synthetic drugs or narcotic drugs are now punishable under the Opium Act or the Anti-Abush Chemicals Act;]] [[noting that it is not able to respond quickly and adequately to new substances used by criminals making it very difficult for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to tackle these forms of drug crime, and that, for example, the Brabant Zeeland Task Force has called for a solution to this;]] [[Considers that the inclusion of a safety net provision in the Opium Act similar to or similar to Article 2, Category IV (7) of the Arms and Ammunition Act may be useful, in which, in addition to the classification and description of List I and List II substances, unknown (pre-) precursors are also punishable, in view of the specific facts and circumstances under which they were found, it can reasonably be assumed that they are intended for no other purpose than for the production of means already prohibited under List I and List II of the Opium Act;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a provision for the Opium Act as described above, to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible and to consult such a bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Kuik, Van Toorenburg and Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34763-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr Grothuizen has waived his speaking time. Mrs Van Toorenburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u82	Mr President, very briefly. Many thanks to the Minister for his reply. I believe that this is indeed an important step that can only be taken carefully. That is why it is important that everyone is focused on how this regulation should be used again, especially now that the law is being revised. It is not enough just to have a correction afterwards. One must know in advance what one is getting into. Another point that I raised indirectly, but to which I would like to have a reply from the Minister, is the coverage of what they are doing in Rotterdam. That's punitive; I realize that. They're gonna take something from me. But when can we ensure that what is taken away can be returned to society? The mayor of Rotterdam raises that again. So I think I keep saying it to every debate. It is important to see where the possibilities lie. So can the Minister comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you. Mr Rutte of the VVD also waived his speaking time. This means that the second term of office has been completed. I shall suspend for a few minutes so that the Minister can take a look at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u84	Honourable Members are now delighted with the amendment tabled by Mr Helder. That's in their mailboxes, but it was also distributed on paper. We assume the Minister will comment on that as well. He has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Groothuizen's question as to whether the damage procedure can be speeded up. I think administrative law works well, to be honest. If decisions are assessed as unlawful, they are entitled to compensation. I do not see any possibility of saying here that these procedures will always go faster, because the illegality of the decision will of course always have to be established first. But I have started by saying that, in my opinion, administrative law is already working well and vigorously in this respect. Then I come to the amendment and the motion. I think it's okay to start with the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u86	We've received two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u87	Yes, we have two motions. Excuse me. Then perhaps first Mrs Buitenweg's motion on item No. 8. I will not really go into the fact that you say that 30% of the house expulsions are declared unlawful, because that is not the statistically correct figure, I think. But I wanted to approach it constructively. If Mrs Buitenweg were prepared to amend the motion in such a way that it says 'to inform the Chamber about it three years after its entry into force', I would leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u88	Are you prepared to do so, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u89	I understand what you said about that 30%, because it's only about cases where there's a case. I get that. It is not just about monitoring after the entry into force of Mr Van Nispen and me, but I can imagine that every year is a little too much. If we turn it into a three-yearly exercise, we may soon be able to have an initial monitoring of the practice as it is today. Then I come to the point that we don't have a whole circus every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u90	Triennial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u91	Every three years, but not just going into the new law, but from now on. So the first report, over the last three years, can be produced soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u92	My gesture was really meant to say: the law will enter into force in autumn 2018 and then we would have such a first monitoring in autumn 2021 in the area of legality, care and so on. Then we really have a relevant period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u93	But I think we have a period now. Of course, we do not yet have the change in the law, which also monitors the closure of premises if there are no drugs, but tools. We do not have them, but we do have the concern expressed by a lot of people about the fact that buildings may be unjustly closed if only a limited amount of drugs are present. So we could have another triennial test in 2021, but we could be dealing with the period 2015 to 2018 or the period 2014 to 2017 in an initial monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u94	We now have Michelle Bruijn's report, which you mentioned. Contrary to what you said, I do not dispute that report, certainly not its existence, nor that it is scientifically correct. My offer is as follows. We are talking here about this amendment of the law and my proposal, yes, Mr President, I am beginning to repeat myself: three years after the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u95	I will work with a number of colleagues to ensure that the recital is correct. And then I want to go for three years, but then I want to cover that part of the law that is already in force. So that's from, say, 2014 to 2017 and then the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u96	Yeah, but wait a minute. Then we're really talking about the first time in 2021. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Then it is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u97	Clear. Then the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u98	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen will then be free to table a new, amended motion, but this motion has been discouraged. Then the motion to part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u100	That is the motion by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuik, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Helder. If I may explain that motion as the commitment I made earlier, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u101	That's what you want confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u103	Your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yeah, or I'm gonna have to go into it. The motion is now a little tighter, but if I may read it in such a way that the government is asked to find out to what extent such a provision in the Opium Act would be feasible, and to come up with findings by the end of September 2018, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u105	I saw some cautious nods, and now a little more convincing, from Mr Van Nispen. So then we read the motion like this and now it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u106	Was it possible to follow how I described him? Yes. Good. Then I have Mrs Helder's amendment. I really must advise against this in the light of the commitment made earlier to Mr Van Nispen's motion. I would also like to say that the point that I want to get to the bottom of for your Chamber is the question of provisionability. Let me give you the example of a transporter who has a large logistics warehouse in which all kinds of goods are stored for customers. It may well be that he has certain precursors in a stock there that, as you know, can also be used for legal purposes. Then there is simply no provision for those involved. This is contrary to the basic principles of law. I want that point sorted out. That is why I must now advise against Mrs Helder's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u107	That is what has happened here. One more question from Mrs Helder. Short, pointy!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u108	In itself, I took that risk, too. That's not what I'm talking about. But I'm going to go into this example. That is why the text I have proposed also says 'for no other purpose than'. Anyway, this is gonna be quite an exercise. We're not gonna do that today. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u109	The amendment has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u110	That was my reason for having this debate. In the future, then, fine. That's what we'll see in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u111	Well, that doesn't change my objection. Anyway, we don't have to have that discussion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u113	May I submit my alternative motion or should I do so in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u114	If you come forward with an amended motion, you must do so in writing. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u115	Okay. But perhaps the Minister still wants to give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u116	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u117	Then I say: Whereas residence expulsions due to drug offences are regularly declared illegal because of drug offences; Whereas these removals have enormous consequences for the persons concerned and are perceived as punishment; calls on the Government to monitor the use of the administrative closing power and judgments of the Court and to inform the Court of Justice on this matter every three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u118	If that starts every three years in 2021, let me just say that, and who knows, the law will only enter into force later, then I will give you those months that will be shorter for that first three-yearly monitor. Then I can agree with that. I don't want to create the illusion that we're gonna do that monitor next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u119	We're gonna be in some kind of rehalink right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u120	Yeah, but I really don't understand what it matters that this new law is in force. Because there are measures now. It is important for the Chamber to know how often things go wrong. It doesn't have to be today or in the next few months. But it's possible that such a report will come in the course of next year, so there's just going to be an investigation. I really don't understand what the problem is with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u121	I would like to say one thing about this, through you, Mr President, to Mrs Buitenweg. I say this very motivated. We have a law that really works well and where the judge in any case in 70% of the published case law allows the closure. The remaining 30% is mainly due to a lack of justification. I have explained that a mayor can fix that quite easily. That law works well, so much so that we decide to extend that law a little bit. The Chamber agrees. We already have this investigation from Mrs Bruijn. That is very helpful; let me put it first. If we're going to work with that law in a new form, then we need to give it a chance. I'm not gonna monitor it in a year. I would hope that the explanation I just mentioned could still be found in order in the 89th minute. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to keep dissuading that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u122	It's become injury time. I think the minister is clear, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u123	That he can get out of his way with a first evaluation next year? Yes, that seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u124	I'm gonna put an end to this debate. It's over! Do you have another word for it, Mr. Secretary? 'Cause I see you're ready to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u125	Well, it's another week or so, maybe. I have already said that I would be very pleased if the motion were to focus on an initial evaluation three years after the entry into force of the law, by 1 June 2021 at the latest. Come on, we're gonna go crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u126	Clear. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-10.u127	On Tuesday we shall vote on the two motions, on the amendment and on the law. Thank you to the Minister for his presence. Thank you to the Members.
