ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to raise the item on the budget for Social Affairs and Employment. We have invited the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to this debate. Welcome to the Chamber. Thank you for coming to the Chamber. I would like to agree with the Members that we are doing interrupting in two. Then you know that in the front and you can take that into account. The speaking time you see on the screen is the speaking time per person in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	I would like to be the first to call to the cathedral Mr De Jong, member of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Social Affairs and Employment budget. Those who look closely at it will not be happy, because this cabinet continues to make it virtually impossible for ordinary Dutch people to overcome the consequences of the crisis of recent years. Young and old, workers, pensioners, disabled people, you name it, everyone is screwed with this cabinet. While our hard-working middle class is still struggling to keep their heads above water and is working hard for a little security of existence, this cabinet makes it even easier for companies to fire people, the cabinet affects the rights of WW and continues with the flexibility of the labour market that has been so advanced. In short, even more uncertainty for those who want to put their hands up, who have already had so much to do in recent years and want to make a living without holding up their hands. These people can whistle for perks. For them no free care or priority on a rental house. You know, all those things that non-Western immigrants who have not contributed anything to the construction of this country can count on in this cabinet. Ordinary Dutch people have checked; they are only good at this cabinet to take the hits in economic bad times as they have done for many years. Now that things are getting better, they don't have to count on a little extra in practice, because for this cabinet ordinary Dutch people are only good to be squeezed out. Mr. Chairman. Now I hear you thinking: but this cabinet promised that everyone would get it better? It was this minister, Minister Koolmees himself, who said exactly a year ago in that place that people would get better after all these years of austerity. That they were gonna feel it in their wallet. That people would notice economic growth. Yeah, that's right, but now the practice. All these purchasing power promises to ordinary Dutch people have proved to be gross lies. 'Cause what's the deal now? For 2017, Rutte promised us 1% purchasing power. That turned out to be 0.3% in the books. Half the people have even gotten worse. And for 2018, an embarrassing 0.6% has been promised. That became even less, namely 0.4%. But it didn't stop there. The Minister had to adjust his purchasing power figures presented in September in October so that workers would have less left in the new figures. This adaptation was only made and made public after the Political Reviews had already been done; so after all the attention and spotlights had long been focused on other political subjects. These adjustments to the disadvantage of workers have therefore not received the attention they would otherwise have had. And that worked out well for this cabinet for a while, didn't it? It was a really good time for him. Mr. Chairman. Those are games, games that get sick of people. Now we have to believe the crumbs we are promised by 2019, you know the 1.5% announced with a lot of bombs, which amounts to one euro a day? So I'm not doing that. Certainly not because these figures are also dependent on a 3% increase in wages and if inflation is disappointing, the euro will be gone before we have much to gain from it and millions of Dutch people will be even more screwed. I'm certainly not the only one who doesn't trust it. According to a poll by EenVandaag, 77% of the Dutch do not believe the promised purchasing power of this cabinet. It turns out that this cabinet cannot fool the people forever. Are these purchasing power figures worthless and unnecessary? No, definitely not. They clearly show what this cabinet stands for, how the Netherlands sees it and for whom it does and for whom it is not a priority. Take a family with two children in which the partners both work and together earn €30,000. According to the Nibud, these people are declining €8 per month. But if a family of the same composition earns €200,000, then it gets better €128 per month. So if you make two tons a year, you're gonna get ahead of this cabinet, but if you're trying to make a living on a normal salary, you're gonna lose it. A difference of over €1,600 per year to the disadvantage of ordinary Dutch. The VVD really knows who it wants to take care of, which people in their eyes are allowed to benefit and which people are not. As has been said, ordinary Dutch people are virtually prevented from overcoming the consequences of the crisis. While the promised purchasing power improvements are therefore highly uncertain, it is 100% certain that Dutch people will lose more money for everyday life. For example, messages become hundreds of euros more expensive as a result of the VAT increase, people are going to pay more for the energy bill, the healthcare premium is going up again and the rents are going up again. Everything's only gonna be more expensive. How are people going to pay for all this later? How are all those Dutch people who get up early every day to get in traffic to go to work, who just want to do it well, going to stronghold all this? They're practically nothing left by now. And that's not so crazy. Wages, on which this minister depends when it comes to purchasing power, have been lagging behind economic growth for years. And now, too. In three years there is an economic growth of almost, about, 10%. In the meantime, many Dutch people are getting crumbs or even getting worse. And it has been for many years. According to the CPB, the economy has increased by 15% over the last 15 years. Business profits doubled, but purchasing power barely increased. Only 2%. The Dutchman has an average of as much to spend as someone from 1977, while the economy is fivefold. So this cabinet is not doing anything to address this unfair inequality of people, of our own people. It doesn't do anything to get our own people to take advantage of it. In fact, against all promises, the burdens with this cabinet simply continue to rise, simply because they are Dutch. Mr. Chairman. This has to stop. I therefore call on the Minister to come up with real reliefs. For example, stop the expat scheme and use the money released, hundreds of millions, to reduce the burden on citizens. Make sure that Dutch people really improve in purchasing power. Turn the proposed VAT increase back on messages. Lower the rents by 15% and freeze the care premium. Use part of the budget surplus for this purpose. That is a political choice that we can make today and which has a direct effect on all those Dutch people who have had a hard time for years and can barely keep their heads above water. Surely it is not too much to ask for our own people to take advantage of it? When we look at all these foreigners here in the Netherlands, we see that they are taking full advantage. For billions of euros a year. The assistance has become an immigrant allowance. The number of non-Western immigrants alone costs us more than EUR 3 billion a year in assistance money. In ten years, nearly 100,000 non-Western welfare workers have joined. It'll cost us claws full of money. And that's only gonna get worse in the years to come. Just look at all those status holders. Almost all of them receive a single assistance immediately upon entry, without having to do anything for it. Right away. Free money. There's extra money in this cabinet for that. A lot of money. For status holders, the assistance budget for 2018 and 2019 has been increased by 185 million euros. For people who only come here to plunder our welfare state, there is enough money to be found. And gratitude towards all those Dutch people who have to cough that up for these people? Whoa, whoa, whoa, As a thank you, they're being tricked hard and hard. Just look at all those welfare turks. It is estimated that one out of every five Turks with welfare benefits commit fraud with the assistance. Because, for example, they have a second house in Turkey or own a piece of land in Turkey. They're hardly getting caught. And if a Turk fraud is ever caught, then we must also have 'understanding'. Then it is almost always: "I don't know" and "I don't understand." They're all gonna get away with it. And if there is a wake-up call to tackle this Turk fraud, then of course there are always those D66 judges who are not on the side of society, but on the side of the Turk fraud. For example, this year there was a Turk who had €60,000 in his safe and meanwhile received a welfare allowance. The judge indicated that account had to be taken of this and I quote 'uses in their culture'. The municipality could therefore whistle to the €74.000 in illegally received welfare money that it wanted to recover. In fact, the municipality even had to pay the legal expenses of this Turkish fraudster. We've gone crazy in this country. Meanwhile, by bending the cabinet, our social security is at stake for everything that is not Dutch and for the open border policy of the cabinet. This cabinet stood by and looked at how 10,000 Poles committed undisturbed fraud with the WW. It stands and looks at how municipalities do not maintain the requirements within the assistance. Looking away must really be over. We therefore call on the Cabinet to take the following measures. Acknowledging that maintaining our welfare state and mass immigration is an impossible combination. I just can't. For the sake of social security, close the borders for all immigrants from Islamic countries and for all asylum seekers. They just come to take advantage, just to get it. These people are no use to us at all. For foreigners who will be here, it should be possible for them to be eligible for the assistance only after 10 years of being a Dutch citizen, not a criminal and who have worked. Status holders should be completely excluded from the assistance, immediately. Make sure foreign welfare fraudsters are arrested, the amount repaid and the country deported, along with their entire family. Get out of here! Logical measures, but this cabinet, together with an overwhelming majority of this Chamber, does not want to do so. They accept that our welfare state will be destroyed. And our own people have to pay for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	An interruption by Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I doubted for a moment, because so much nonsense combined... Do you really have to respond to that? Do you have to pay attention to that? Yes, you do. I was at Lesbos a few weeks ago. That's where I was at refugee camps. People who fled from war and tried to find a safe way through a shaky boat, and thus also come to the Netherlands. And then the PVV puts these people, who fled war and violence, away as profiteers. That's bullshit! I really want to distance myself from that, because it's about people fleeing, not profiteers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	Our country is flooded by profiteers. Look at our welfare state, it's about to jump. Look at our assistance, it's about to jump. Look at all these so-called doctors, all these so-called highly-educated Syrians; they're almost all on welfare, they're just here to hold their hand. That's the story. And if the people you are talking about are refugees, let them be taken in their own region. Why should we take the problems of the whole world on our shoulders? We are dealing here with the Netherlands, that in the past what is it? For decades now, more than enough has been done. It's over. It should be time for our own people. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	An interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had the same hesitation as Gijs van Dijk. Firstly, I would like to invite Mr De Jong to visit Jordan or Beirut to see how many refugees are in camps in Jordan and Lebanon. A huge proportion of the population there is refugee, so that accusation makes no sense at all. But let's get back to the question that was just asked. Big words fly through this room: "profiteers." But that plumber from Aleppo whose house has been bombed, has to flee the safety of his daughter on the street, comes eventually to the Netherlands because we give a place to people who flee war and violence and are not sure of their lives. According to Mr De Jong, these people did not come here because their homes are broken, their families are threatened with death and bombs are falling from the sky, but to receive welfare benefits. Is that the motive of all these refugees? Is that really what De Jong dares to tell us honestly? That's bullshit, isn't it? That you feel differently, Mr. De Jong, may, I say, through you, Chairman. But say that people have to leave that house and fireplace, come here for the assistance: that can't even be the PVV mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	The same D66 wheel is given here again, that I have to go to Jordan or Beirut for a work visit. I would say: go to work in the neighborhoods in the Netherlands. Take a look at the disadvantaged Dutch, who have had to see for years that someone who comes in from outside can hold his hand and just get money in his hand without having to do anything. Those people, the Dutch, have to pay for all that. He's gonna leave you in the lurch. And then all those Syrians you're talking about, they're going back and forth to celebrate vacation! There are whole parts in Syria where they can just go. And you're saying that's bullshit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	"Mr. Van Weyenberg says."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr President, Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 sees that, as soon as they come in, people will receive a single assistance. And then, when they sit comfortably here, they go back to Syria to celebrate vacation. There's no way to explain that. So it is time for me and the PVV to be alone in this Chamber, but I am also proud of that for our own people. It is time for them to take advantage, for them to be rewarded for all the hard work, for feeling the crisis and for paying for the asylum drama. I'm standing in front of these people, and I like to stand up for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	Sure, but in practice, you've never really meant anything to those people. But my question was another one. Mr De Jong said quite literally that people are coming from Syria to benefit from the assistance here. I repeat my question, because apart from the usual tirade, I did not receive an answer. Are these people coming to you and I am giving you the chance to correct that, and their house was bombed while Assad's bombs fell out of the sky, whose children were not sure of their lives, whose husband or wife were not sure of their lives, here for assistance? That's what Mr. De Jong said. I dare him to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	I don't need to be challenged at all. If you choose to cross through seven safe countries in Europe to end up in the Netherlands, I wonder if you are a real refugee. Of course, there are people who are in dramatic situations. Then you always have the opportunity to be taken care of in your own region. If it is so now that I don't know how many Syrians go on vacation in Syria, why couldn't I ask all Syrians to go back to their own country, to build their own country? What is too much to ask for? It's time for our own people. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. For all this, for all those gifts that D66 wants to give away to profiteers, our own people have to work longer and longer. As a result, more and more Dutch people are going sick towards their pension due to the antisocial AOW-age increase. This was the subject of an extensive debate yesterday, but I would like to say something about it. It is an unprecedented shame that this cabinet continues the antisocial AOW age increase. A majority of Dutch people and a majority of employers do not want to do so, but the government continues to do so, just like breaking down our beautiful pension system. It has to be broken down, because that is what this cabinet has agreed in the back rooms. Shameful. Although Minister Koolmees has announced in recent weeks that he will be able to avoid discounts, even to enable indexation and to reach a settlement for those who do not make it anymore, he does not do all this. It is precisely because of this action by the minister that more and more Dutch people lose faith in our pension system, but that does not interest this minister at all. In fact, the loss of confidence in our pension system is the profit for this cabinet. By inciting mistrust, this minister is trying to create a basis for his dreamed reforms. Politics on its dirtiest. I call on this minister to stop his demolition policy and focus on our own people. That is why I propose the following measures. Adjust the calculation rate so that pension funds get some air again, discounts can be avoided and indexation is possible again. Stop developing and use this money to stop the anti-social age increase at the AOW and put the AOW age back to 65. You can, if you want. Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the purchasing power cards. We can see that these purchasing power cards are always disappointing in practice. It's always said that we're all making progress. Wages must then rise. Those wages are left behind. That's what employers say. People are being fooled. Is it not time for this minister to be honest and to inform the Chamber in a fair manner? My question to this Minister is therefore to come up with adapted purchasing power figures. And therefore provide these adjusted purchasing power figures with local charges. Because these burdens go up all over the Netherlands, but are never included in the purchasing power pictures and in the beautiful party mood of this cabinet. I therefore ask for these purchasing power figures to be sent to the Chamber during this budget debate, so that we can answer the questions tomorrow. Mr President, as I said, I will conclude. It all has to be different. We have to choose our own people. We must stop baconking and preaching everything that is non-Dutch, and put the Dutch back on one, on two and on three. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. The second speaker of the PVV is Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps today I am the only one in the whole Chamber who is talking about integration, but it does not matter, because it is part of this budget. I found the previous discussions too short, and there are still too many questions to ask and too many comments to make. Mr. Chairman. It happened: we got us right through Trouw daily. It doesn't happen often. Earlier this week, a comprehensive article of criminologist Werdmölder, who warned long ago about a number of things that went wrong in integration policy. He argued that the failure of newcomers, in this case seen in crime statistics, should not necessarily be sought from the receiving society, as is still happening and has always happened. The Dutch, the recipients, are always portrayed as the perpetrators of things that go wrong, even in this reign of Rutte III. We tell ourselves that we are doing too little, that we are failing. Why is failure always due to discrimination, no opportunities, no work or poor education, as Werdmölder also wonders. Mr. Chairman. This integration policy of recent years has only led to the Islamisation of our society. I therefore ask the Minister to distance himself from this self-hatred policy in the Netherlands, and simply to make a firm effort to enforce the law, and, of course, to denaturalise and expel criminals with a double passport, as I always ask and will continue to ask. For example, ask Turks who they are suffering from, and the answer will be: from Moroccans. Amsterdam's research showed that. 70% of the 30-year-old Moroccans have been suspected at least once. We are dealing with genital mutilation, with honour vengeance, with benefit dependency, with women who are kept at home and with violence hidden behind cotton bars. Is that the fault of the Netherlands? In the article in Trouw, Werdmölder also cites a group of 40 immigrant problem youngsters from the eighties with whom he had contact. They also had every chance, however 25 out of those 40 has either died or is still addicted, criminal, hangs on the government infusion or walks on the psychiatry. Depends on the Netherlands, I also ask here. I'd like an answer to that. Then the Surinam economist and sociologist Gowricharn will also be performed, and that confirms the image. The Dutch, he says, always seek the causes of the failure of others outside the other self. And that is exactly the only thing that lies with the Netherlands: we did not regard the other's culture as equal, but considered the other's backwardness and flaws to be superior. The Netherlands did not want to show its own culture as superior and did not want to demand assimilation. This is the result of the Marxist takeover of education, media and politics since 1968. Those who stand up for their own culture, such as the PVV, are condemned here in this house and in many other houses of democracy in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Earlier this week we heard for the umpteenth time that Jews no longer dare to recognize them on the street. They're hiding their yarmulke. They're afraid to say they're Jewish anymore. Jewish institutions must be protected because of Islam. Hiding the yarmulke is also because of Islam. Islam commands Muslims to seek Jews behind every stone and behind every tree, and to kill them. And that outcome of yesterday's EenVandaag's investigation as if it were up to all kinds of other things is not true. It's Islam, Islam and Islam, that hatred of Jews in the Netherlands. Because Jews are, in addition to perfectly assimilated Dutch, the proverbial canaries in the coal mine for a society. We know very well the story of the beaten up Jewish lady in Amsterdam a few years ago. It was an elderly lady in her house. But it is not the only one in Europe. We see the same movement everywhere: where Islam grows, there Jews are threatened. Eventually, many Jews choose to leave, often to Israel, a country in the midst of Islamic dictatorships and under constant threat from Islam, but they feel safer there than here in the Netherlands. That says a lot. I would like a statement from the Minister. Does the minister really think that the hatred of the Jews can be removed from Islam and if so, how? For so far history has always shown that where Islam grows, the Jews are screwed. And not just the Jews. Professor Hans Jansen taught us the Islamic proverb: "after Saturday comes Sunday." According to his explanation, this means: when the Jews run out, the Christians are next. We have seen this in North Africa, at the first enlargements of Islam, but today we still see it in the headlines, which are decimated. Recently we saw it in Syria, of course, with the Jezidis. The Christians are next, and how. In the Netherlands, the day before yesterday, even a hotline for threatened Christian refugees was opened; the day before yesterday, in the Netherlands! How much further is it? Is the Minister proud of this enrichment, created by his policies and those of his predecessors? I would like to mention this. It remains strange that many Christians in the Netherlands continue to facilitate and import not all of them, but a lot of them. Because that is the cause of the hotline I just mentioned. The CDA is cooperating, the Christian Union is cooperating. I have already argued before that the PVV is taking the chestnuts out of the fire for the Christians in the Netherlands. Again, we do so with love, because we are proud of our Jewish-Christian culture. We want to preserve them, so that people can adhere to the Christian faith for eternity. Because we see this threat and we dare to name it and we are the only ones who really tackle it. That is why I am asking that part of the Christian population of the Netherlands which does bend the head: where has the practical implementation of the "forward, Christian fighters, after Christ's salvation's crucifixion" gone? Where'd it go? Where is your patriotic breast in daily life? Your other cheek is once devastated by turning, broken by political correctness. Your humility has been abused to promote the destruction of your own Christian culture. Your tolerance has gone crazy and led to the import of intolerance. Does 2 John 1 not tell you that someone who brings another teaching should not be received in your house? But why do you allow that to happen so massively? Can the Minister respond to this, by the way? Why does he and the cabinet throw away this beautiful foundation under our culture? Don't forget that the likeness of the merciful Samaritan is often abused by people to let everyone in. That merciful Samaritan returned home after his good deed. He paid the cost for the person he helped. Now it's completely the other way around. We help everyone who comes here, we pay their expenses, but they never leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. Another subject: the mayor of Amsterdam, who loves the Islamization of that city so much. She used to change tough language against headscarves a few times, when she first debated with Muslims in the city she went down her knees. Muslims have it heavier than others, was her line. Where does she get it? This mayor also thinks he can decide which laws she has to implement and which laws she does not have to implement. This morning we could see that the colleges in Amsterdam I was talking about Marxists and support her as well. As an ordinary Dutchman, you have to decide which laws you do and do not want to apply and what you do and do not want to follow; then the police, the Tax Office or the CJIB are on the doorstep. Who does the mayor of Amsterdam think she is? Yesterday De Telegraaf published the question as a statement of the day: is the burka ban not to be enforced? 95% of respondents replied with "oness," a skinny 4% said "oness," and only 1% said "I don't know" or "no opinion." Mayor Halsema isn't really known as the great connecter in this country, but here she made sure of unity, but then directed against her own person. A small selection of the statements of a number of professors from the past few days. Then I get to Wim Voermans, Monday at the NOS. He said: "Halsema has nothing to want here and she already has no room to pursue her own policies. She sends a very wrong signal to society. We have a rule of law and one of the people who has to make it clear that we have rules is a mayor." Professor of State and Administrative Law Jon Schilder joins. He says, "That's not Halsema's concern at all. She openly discusses the fact that she is going to frustrate national legislation, and I think this is very unwise." They also say that they do not remember that a mayor openly announces that he is ignoring a penal code. This is the first time that I have ignored a criminal law; criminal law! "No one is above the law," said Secretary of State Visser, "not even Mrs. Halsema." And then we get to Prime Minister Rutte. It will be no surprise: he is clearly one of the lean 1% of the "don't know" and "no opinioners." He said, "I'm not gonna respond to every mayor. Minister Ollongren also belongs to that 1% category. She speaks through a spokesperson because she has to address D66 people in another country. That seems to be more important than doing her job here. Her spokesperson says: mayors' statements about prioritization are therefore premature." What good is that gonna do us? There's only one sanction the Crown can give here, and the Crown can. That's resignation. The mayor of Amsterdam does not care about her oath of office and is a damn bad example for the people she should serve and for her colleagues. See those colleges, too. So take that, too, I'll tell the Minister. And, if so, how? Mr. Chairman. To return to the statement of the mayor of Amsterdam that Muslims are having a harder time here than others, I would like to say the following. The PVV has been arguing here for years with figures and practical examples that Muslims get all the opportunities in the Netherlands. All the odds! From entry onwards, they are pampered, with housing, food and drink, free care and education and a whole range of asylum procedures. If you're rejected, you'll just go again, just as long as the asylum lawyer made available by the Dutch taxpayer has pushed your way through and you can stay. Then priority is given to the allocation of a social housing and integration assistance. Will the Minister finally enforce the law in the area of integration before he comes up with a new law by simply removing all those fraudsters? Because there's been a lot of fraud in the last few months. There was news about that. And also the failing citizen customers: maintain! If you don't make it, you get out. What reason is there to keep that scumbag from abroad that's cheating here? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to present something to the Minister. We received a report from someone who had completed his 600 hours of Dutch lessons at an Islamic school. But he only received Koran lessons and saw in the surroundings that there were a lot of people who only received Quran lessons in those 600 hours. They did not receive a Dutch lesson, but Koran lessons, and many others with them. After four bags before the exam these people could pass for the Dutch passport and also for the remission of their €10,000 tax money they had received in loans. Of course, there are also people who have less good intentions with the Netherlands. Let me say it nicely. How is that possible? Does the Minister understand that he must first enforce these abuses and also investigate this case before he comes forward with his non-working hammock law for citizens? There are only three reasons why this integration doesn't work. The pressure on the system continues through the open borders, fraud and failure are not maintained and no one is sent back to safe areas in the region, such as Syrians and Eritreans. And what do we get in return for so much goodness? Our girls are being attacked near azc's. That was yesterday's news and today's news. I'd like a reaction to that, too. Mr. Chairman. If a few fail to obtain a residence permit after so much innocence from the Dutchman, you will get bed-bath-bread. There is nothing to prevent you from cracking buildings in Amsterdam and chasing people who are showering, women who are vulnerable, out of their homes. We've all seen it this year. Or you're under a general's pardon. And if you're not a stranger, then there's always the church to help you break our laws. What a country! Mr. Chairman. The fact that there is no assimilation and even barely integrated is not because of the Netherlands and the Dutch. We are a tolerant and generous people. The problem lies on the side of those who come here and in almost all cases it is Islam. In De Telegraaf we recently read the story of a former Shell director who after fifteen years free Dutch lessons to Muslims was thrown out like a bag of old dirt by the Hague neighbourhood De Mussen. The cause of this: Muslim women who did not wish to cooperate with this fine gentleman. And a Moroccan boy bit him there: "Wait, if we're in charge here, you're gonna get your heads off." Whatever he went through there was that a 8-year-old girl asked him what he was, this neat Shell gentleman. Whether he was Moroccan, Berber, Somali or Turk, she asked, but that he was Dutch, that did not occur to her. Finally, he observed the same thing as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau concluded from research: mistrust is increasing in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to come to a conclusion. The calls for violence of imams they always do through Allah, we have seen at Mohammed Bouyeri. But it's just real calls for violence. So I'd like to punish you like that, too. I'd like a reaction to that. I would like to draw attention to another Islamization phenomenon, the halal banking. I quote: "Halal mortgages are in demand. Are they coming to the Netherlands?" That's what the NOS headlined this weekend as an advertising video on its website. Well, not as far as we're concerned. The NOS cheers in a cheerful explanation video about the possible positive effects of "shatters of Islam and tufts of halal" yes, they really say it on our financial system. How crazy do you have to make it up? Of course, the possible negative effects are not addressed. But research conducted by the IMF in 2016 shows that Islamic banking would be sensitive to money laundering and financing terrorism. For example, Hamas terrorist organisation used the Islamic bank Al-Aqsa, the Al-Aqsa Islamic Group, to finance terror. The PVV already asked written questions about this in 2007. Minister Bos of Finance saw it all in front of him. The Netherlands as a financial center for Islamic banking. Following the example of London, it was going to happen all the way here. I ask the Minister to fight the rise of halal banking and its establishment in the Netherlands and to ensure that it does not happen. After that, I will come to a conclusion, but I see that there are interruptions, and you have warned me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	Let me give you an explanation, because I heard Mr De Graaf say: imams call for violence to be applied, and I find that barbaric. No misunderstanding about that, but then he said: does the government want to think about similar penalties for that kind of imams? Or did I misunderstand him? Did you just call for the use of force against those imams? 'Cause I think that's just as barbaric.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u20	I don't know where Mr Van Dijk gets it. I never call for violence. The PVV will never call for violence, not at all. I asked the government to see... You have a call for violence, but of course there is a "Ruttian" saying a goat path: then we do it nicely through Allah. But then you also know that there are followers ready to carry it out. We saw that at Mohammed Bouyeri, who slaughtered Theo van Gogh. I believe that such an imam should be tried according to the call for violence and that he cannot go free through that goat path, as Fawaz Jneid has been free all along.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u21	Clear. Well, that's not so bad. I think you should check that the PVV never calls for violence, because I remember your group leader saying that hooligans, especially those of a certain origin, should have a knee shot. So it's not entirely true that you never call for violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u22	Former colleague Brinkman once said that you can do so within the law as soon as a police officer feels appropriate. I thought I remembered that so well. In doing so, we have not called for violence but for the law to be enforced. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u23	I would have liked to have interrupted at the end of Mr De Graaf's speech, but I will do it now. I found it very nice that Mr. De Graaf quoted from the merciful Samaritan. I also had the impression that he sort of put himself in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u24	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u25	So much for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u26	So much for the compliment, yes, but there might be more. What I really like about that merciful Samaritan is that when he finally left the person who was injured at the inn, he also said, "Here's money," and eventually he also said, "If it costs more later, I'll come back and then I'll pay it too." Do I now hear a plea from the PVV for development cooperation, to help those people who are struggling elsewhere, or does mercy stop at the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u27	Very nice of course, because that was also exactly in my story. He gave me two more screams, I think, or were two first and then four, but at least he gave me two more screams, I think. Then the merciful Samaritan went back and did his own thing. He didn't stay, he went back, compared to now. No, Mr Stoffer does not hear me making a call for development cooperation. In fact, over the past 60, 70 years, we've pumped enough of development cooperation into Africa and other parts of the world. Mercy and kindness have been at the forefront of the Netherlands for all these decades. In the meantime, the people of their own country are in the water and we will first have to take the beam out of our own eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's a shame, because when I read history, the neighbor doesn't stop at the borders. I call on Mr De Graaf to think again. If you want to show mercy and love your neighbor, you have to look beyond the Dutch border, because I think this would be great. Will Mr De Graaf reconsider this so that we can come back to it later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u29	I can give you about the same reaction right now. It is a very nice interruption, because it makes a lot of sense. We have done very well over the past decades as Dutch people, but we have also seen that the money we have given to others, that mercy, has disappeared in the pockets of dictators. My colleague, Van Weerdenburg, will also be speaking about it tonight in the budget of BuHa/OS, said at his Hague. It will also indicate, I estimate, that we should stop developing because this is not working. Many investigations have shown that. Let us use this kindness above all for our own neighbour. That neighbor doesn't live in Syria, not Eritrea, not Kenya, but just here on the corner, on the Spui.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u30	I hear the mercy at the PVV unfortunately ends at the border. I am also here tonight at the external trade and development cooperation budget debate. I am going to try to convince Mr De Graaf's colleague again this evening to think a little away from that border, but I think it will stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you. Proceed, Mr De Graaf. You were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yes, I'll pass this on to my colleague. Rounding up. The Netherlands has gotten themselves into a mess. Those in power have done exactly the opposite of what had to be done all these years. Cultural Marxism, resulting in political correctness, demolished the Jewish-Christian foundations under our society. Islam was facilitated. Being of any minority has been elevated to victimisation. See its excrements: Gloria Alkker, Jeffrey Atee and Sylvana Simons, the mosque authorities. Minorities or people with a certain deviation are always the victims. On the left, politically correct, the Netherlands has encouraged this. That is why it is now time to stand up for our Jewish-Christian culture, for ourselves and for others to assimilate. If you don't, you're leaving. We need to enforce laws, like the Civilization Act. Criminals with a double passport must be denaturalized and deported. Jihadists, their brides and the Caliphate children should not be allowed in. We must de-Islamicise the Netherlands, set borders and close borders for asylum and immigration from Islamic countries. It has to be, because only then can we save the Netherlands for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you. I call Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the large Social Affairs and Employment budget. I realize every day how privileged I am to be able to do this portfolio, because it affects everyone, young and old, at the start of your career or at the end of your career, as an employed person, as an entrepreneur, as an educated or unskilled person. So that's a big responsibility. Because this portfolio affects so many people, I will discuss a wide range of topics today. I start with a somewhat general picture of the Netherlands. Then I will deal with two specific issues, the shortage of the labour market and then the general labour market and the policy for that labour market. Then my colleague, Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan, would take over from me when it comes to the Secretary of State's portfolio, plus Integration, but she unfortunately fell out last minute because of force majeure. At the end of my speech, I also take on board her main points for the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure we all know the picture: if you look at the Netherlands from the sky. The last time for me was last summer: with the fresh family actually fleeing the Dutch heat. I saw the view over our beautiful country. I keep finding that magical: raked, organized, innovative. Plug green with then whole picking city. Roads that wriggle over and among each other and important industry that helps the Netherlands so well. It's the feeling that many people will recognize when you're on that plane and look down. A beautiful country. What made it even more beautiful to me was that on my lap was my eleven-year-old daughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u35	"Elf months" I hear yelling, sorry. Did I say 11 years? Then I'd get very different questions by interrupting, I guess. It would have helped a lot if she had been eleven years old, because now she was eleven months crying on my lap, so that makes the moment a lot less beautiful. But in between, between that crying and that beautiful image of the Netherlands from the plane I also had a voice in my head that whispered: how do we hold that beautiful Netherlands? Later that week, I read Mathijs Bouman's column. He made the rankings for the third time in a row. If you add all the lists together, the Netherlands is in second place after Switzerland on the list of best countries in the world. That is nice, chairman, but of course the typical Dutchman likes to nuance it. One of the best countries in the world is a beautiful medal, but also a two-way medal. Of course, on the one hand, the growing economy, purchasing power, consumption, investment, the lowest unemployment since 2001, a sharp increase in the number of jobs, a cabinet that also drives that with a whole package of burden relief. I'm proud of that. But there's also another side of the coin. If you're in the rush hour of your life, getting up early in the morning, taking the kids to the shelter, racing to work and maybe running an errand in between for your sick parent, then you want everything we're talking about here to be just right. Because of all the rapid changes in the labour market, that feeling of security, of both having a job and that basis to fall back on, is quite a challenge. In the meantime, job seekers who are sidelined see that they are falling behind in terms of knowledge and skills. People with disabilities sometimes do not experience enough support. The entrepreneur cannot find suitable staff and runs against walls at UWV and municipality. For both of you, the challenge of not leaving a piece of money for a month at the end of your money. I therefore use the continuation of my speech on that other side of the coin, because I see that our own systems and rules also create unnecessary uncertainty. I will give a few examples of this and propose solutions to it. I would like to cut that into two blocks, as I said: the cut-off in the labour market and the labour market itself: how can it be better? The shortage in the labour market. "The labour market is now almost as ten years old as it was ten years ago" CBS headlined two weeks ago. In plain language: the Dutch economy cannot be kept. For example, we now have a real record of open vacancies: 262,000. Is that good news? Yes, of course, that's good news. But here too a two-way story, because so many vacancies also means that one in four entrepreneurs can't get the production done. This in turn results in employers increasingly reaching out to migrant workers. That has an effect that we don't know how it's gonna work out. That could just be a silent revolution. Because, Mr President, there is urgency and it is getting bigger. Our country is ageing, so our potential is falling in the future. Meanwhile, we still have 1.1 million people on the sidelines who want to work more. I cannot reconcile that with the 262,000 vacancies and the fact that we actually need everyone to face the big challenges we already face. Think of the energy transition, the hundreds of thousands of newly built homes or enough hands on the bed in the nursing home around the corner. And on the other hand, how come you still haven't found a job, if you've been looking for a while? It doesn't match. The cabinet's working on tight. We are also very pleased with this, but the great demand of the future remains how to reduce mismatches between supply and demand. If we now have sufficient ownership and an approach, I ask the cabinet. And how can we do that even better in the near future? Following last year's budget, the cabinet has shown what has happened to the retraining budget that has been released for amendment by D66, CDA, Christian Union and ourselves. We have released 30 million to help people who have been on the sidelines for a long time to get back to work through training, but we now see in the figures that the use is still limited, while a lot of people still need it. And of course, the scheme just started, but there's a concern here, because how are we gonna do it better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. We've been working on the VVD input for about five minutes now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u38	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u39	Seven. Yeah, I think I'm gonna wait a little while when that excuse is gonna come from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u40	For what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u41	Well, the excuse to the Dutch people for all those purchasing power lies. I remember, a year ago, we had the budgetary treatment here and it was said that everyone is getting better, that everyone is really going to notice that the economy is going better. Buying power, look how fantastic! And then we see that people haven't improved at all. So when is the VVD going to apologize to the Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u42	I am still very much in favour of purchasing power, but I can see Mr De Jong so eagerly that I do not want to disappoint him too much either. It seems as if Mr.De Jong, as purchasing power gets better and there is more money in the wallet of all those Dutch people, is getting more restless and almost hopes that things will go even worse than they do in practice. Honestly, I'm surprised. Apparently, Mr De Jong would very much like to tell us that a lot of people are going backwards, but if we catch 100 people, 95 are going forward, an average of 1.5%. I think that's a good story. It is a story that I can imagine the PVV says: we apologize because we did not contribute to it. Good, I'll take that, but it's not a story I'd say you're not proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u43	I'm really excited about this. There's the VVD, which said last year that everyone is really improving. Then the purchasing power plates are adjusted and we find that half of the Dutch have deteriorated. Get back! Stop lying! It just doesn't make sense what Mr Wiersma is saying here. In the last three years, the purchasing power stories have not come true. In fact, people have been worse off. And if only it were such a party that people would have more money left in their wallet. That would be great. I would be the first to compliment this cabinet, but that is not happening. So my question to the VVD is: if you're really worried and really care about all those people and their wallets, if you really want them to feel it in that wallet, doesn't the VVD feel like withdrawing, for example, that tax increase, which makes people go down hundreds of euros a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mr De Jong apparently wants to scare people unnecessarily. He walks away from reality and grabs some figures from the Nibud, while I've just searched it out of all the numbers that are there, eight pluses and one minus. Yeah, that's right, and I'm honest about that: 95 out of 100 people are getting better. The number of pensioners is even higher. And yes, because I see Mr De Jong looking, of course there are also costs going up. When you run groceries, yeah, they get more expensive sometimes. And the care premium is also getting more expensive. But with the whole package, if that ordinary man opens his wallet in January, there's more in it than the year before. Not only is there more, this cabinet also invests in a lot of things that the ordinary man desperately needs. The education he sends his children to every day: goes more money. Older people care: goes more money. Police and security: goes more money. So at the bottom of the line, there's more money in that wallet. Mr De Jong does not like that, but that is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u45	It's all long stories. The facts. In 2017, 1% purchasing power was promised. That was 0.3% and half of the Dutch have deteriorated. In 2018, 0.6% was promised. That became 0.4% and people have deteriorated on it. By 2019, we have to believe it now. But the VVD forgets to mention that it depends on wage increases. The employers themselves say that there is no room at all for wage increases. So the VVD's lying. Why is the VVD going through with that? Last year, you did it. You have been able to think for a whole year about what the answer would be. And again, you choose to continue with your purchasing power lies. Wouldn't it be much better to say: of course we hope that people will get more money in their pockets, but we depend on the employers and we can't? You're not saying that. You're driving them crazy. You raise the burden and then people are in the cold. Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr. De Jong, this is an argument, not a question. Mr. Wiersma, you may respond briefly and then I will go to Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u47	Just those wages are going up. Next year, an average of 2.9% is expected. That's not the only thing. It's also important that people start to feel that in the wallet, and that's what we're going to do. For the vast majority of people, we do. If you're in the grocery store in a minute, you just have more money to spend than the year before. If you have to get your car fixed, you can do it again. Mr De Jong wants to deny that, but these figures are basically good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u48	No, Mr. De Jong. I'm going to see Mrs. Van Brenk. Mr Wiersma has just begun, so you can come back later. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u49	I have just heard that pensioners are getting so much better, but in the Nibud report commissioned by the 50PLUS Group in the First Chamber, we really see different stories than Mr Wiersma says. We're talking about people with a moral income. A single worker declined €300 in the period 2010-2019, but a single retired €1,800. Even greater is the difference at one and a half modes. On an annual basis, a working couple lost a thick €800 and a retired couple almost €3,200. What nonsense is the VVD here claiming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u50	I think no one here denies that we have all turned in elderly people over the past few years because we came out of a crisis in which everyone has experienced pain. Now that things are getting better, we're trying to get everyone to take advantage of it. Then I am very glad to see in these figures that 97 out of 100 elderly people are making progress. 97 out of 100 elderly; and yes, that's very acidic for the other 3. Don't I have solutions for that? Yeah, I can think of a few for that. If we did something about the pension system, it could help a lot of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u52	Let's see where I left off. Just before the summer, the VVD proposed seven concrete measures to address labour shortages. Of course, I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals. I will not repeat them all; he undoubtedly knows them well. But I would add three more, which focus specifically on sometimes limited changes in our policies, but which may have major positive effects. Mr. Chairman. The first is the Academy of Crafts; the Minister knows it too. This is an example of how we can connect real craftsmanship and entrepreneurship with older jobseekers. I was allowed to see that Friday. I was a guest of such a beautiful example, where former supermarket manager Reinier is helped by a furniture maker, Niels, to learn that profession and eventually to start working as an independent entrepreneur. That twinkling in Reinier's eyes is priceless. He had found the energy again to throw the whole future, which he still has in front of him with his 53 years, over a new bow. Mr. Chairman. We're actually giving it to everyone. Two years ago, the initiative here in the budget was brought to life by the CDA and the VVD. It's running like a train. There are dozens of good examples. Besides Reinier there are many others, but the funding will stop as of January 1st, with all the consequences, also for Reinier. It would be a shame if these people could not complete their journey, but it would also be a shame if all those interested, for there are hundreds of people who could not follow this journey. That is why, together with the CDA, I have tabled an amendment to continue funding for three years and also to give the Craft Academy the opportunity to give a wider group than just 50-plussers the opportunity to do so. That craft is so beautiful, you actually give it to everyone. Mr. Chairman. As a follow-up, the VVD would like the cabinet to look at how to implement this principle of training even better in practice. This can be done, for example, by having existing companies, some larger ones, for example with a business school, also trained for SMEs in their environment. SMEs in particular have the greatest difficulty in finding good people and find it difficult to train themselves, because they do not always have the infrastructure to do so. It would be very nice to connect large companies and small businesses in this way, and we could also encourage SMEs academies, for example. Will the Minister and also the Secretary of State, since this is a broader issue, also take this up? The use of these training resources, which we released last year, may be disappointing in the end. Could we use them by making them available not only from the UWV, but also from SME academies, for example, to train people in SMEs through the large companies that already have business schools to do so? Mr. Chairman. Then my second example of how we can perhaps achieve much more with small adjustments: customization options in the WW. I was recently visiting a training company here in The Hague for stukadoors, Traub Stuc. That's where I heard Donny's story. He's 38, got fired just before the summer as a personal trainer and knocked on the door at the UWV. He showed me these mail changes after that. The summary is that that was rather difficult. He wanted to do that training as a plasterer, but the money for this training was not available at the UWV and he didn't have his own account. He could get the education budget of €2,500, but that was actually too little here. Donny himself said that he would be very helpful if he could have agreed that he could, for example, use part of his WW benefit. Of course, this would be done under conditions, because he could have gotten a job guarantee there; he could really have started as a stucco. Does the Minister think that is an interesting idea and could we have looked further at how we could have helped Donny with customization of the UWV earlier? Meanwhile, last week, he found another job. He did get to work in his old role as a personal trainer. So with Donny it worked out, but the Donnys of the future would still like this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think that the VVD is right to raise a point. There was a meeting I missed you there, but we can't be everywhere at FNV Woman. A number of young mothers absolutely wanted to get to work and they saw opportunities for themselves, but they needed training of €6,000. Then they could get guaranteed work in health care. But the UWV didn't pay for that and preferred them to receive benefits for years instead of funding this training. But these people can't afford that from their WW benefit at all, because they already have a shortage there. They have now come to the assistance. Can we just agree with the VVD that we're gonna give the room here to pay for that training? That saves us years of benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u54	That last one always sounds good. I share what Mrs Van Brenk says. You don't want to get into the WW. If you come up against your will, you want to get back to work as soon as possible. Then you want to be able to take advantage of everything that leads to that. If that's a piece of training, that's what I think it's going to be more and more often. That's a piece of training, and then we have to take care of it together. If you have listened between the lines, and you have, you have heard that my question was twofold. Do we have enough training budget? And: how can you give people space to make their own choices, if that is not enough, for example to bring the budget forward in the WW and thereby increase it? I can also imagine that, as you say, that is not always possible for everyone. I don't want to take a right either, not at all. I'm just looking for new ways to better respond to these rapid changes in the labour market. The money from the education budgets is left behind. I wonder if we can both do these two things better, so use the budget better, even if that sometimes requires more, but someone is out of the benefit sooner, and on the other hand offer room to choose whether you want some room for education in your WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u55	I am strict with Members of Parliament who intervene: it really must be concrete and short. But that also applies to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u56	I am very happy to hear that the VVD is not looking to take away people's WW, because indeed, a lot of people would not be able to afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u57	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. A check question, because we are dealing with the VVD and it's about benefits. The WW is income protection. You're losing your job. That sucks anyway. Then you want to get back to work as soon as possible. How does the VVD see it practically for itself, bringing forward the WW?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr Van Dijk says it well, it is income support. It is also true that people bring it to themselves, of course in a collective, as Mr Van Dijk knows. But people do have the feeling: I pay for it every month, and if it's a problem I get it, but then it's actually poured into concrete that I don't have a choice as to whether I want to use something for education. I think we should think about that kind of possibility with each other. I have a few examples of people saying that they would have been helped with that. I immediately acknowledge that there may also be disadvantages and that this requires good thinking. But I hope that Mr Van Dijk will take part in that reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u59	Training is particularly important in order to get people back to work quickly. You could therefore think of increasing the educational budget at the UWV and you still have the transition fee that people receive. It can also be used for this purpose. That would be the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u60	On top of that, it would be nice to see how the WW could contribute by giving people the space to think about their own WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u61	WW benefits are paid from the General Unemployment Fund. The first question to Mr Wiersma: do you know who pays the premium? Are you aware that this premium will have to be raised? Are you prepared to do so? The second question. You want to use the Awf, that unemployment spot, as some kind of education budget. To what extent can people who have two years' entitlement to WW, for example, become unemployed and enter the WW, withdraw a whole year of WW money from the VVD? Where do you set that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u62	This goes beyond technical questions. Of course I know him. What is important here is that the step to work for people should be made as small as possible. I hear people knocking at the UWV get to hear it: we have this; we are thinking for a while. Then they don't get a reaction for weeks. So there's no thought about it. I want there to be opportunities to think with. If this is possible by increasing the training budget by a few euros, we should not be too difficult about it. If you can do that through the WW, we shouldn't be too hard on you. Let me give you an example. Take the Craft Academy. There, people get a pathway that is funded while retaining benefits. That takes, for example, a year and a half. What if your WW benefit is only for one year? Then it would be nice if people could consider spreading a little, so that they can follow the trajectory within their benefit. That would be an idea, too. That could be an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u63	That's the next VVD test balloon. I ask a few substantive questions and I note that Mr Wiersma has not yet given any thought to what his proposal should look like. I will help Mr Wiersma. It is the employers who pay the contribution to the unemployment fund. This will be enhanced by making it possible for you to learn from it. What increase in the WW premium does Mr Wiersma consider desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u64	I find it very strange that Mr Van Kent is actually denying that people who work also simply contribute to their WW benefit. I find it even weirder that he then says: "But once they get that WW benefit, they have nothing to say about it at all. I put a bag of money into that account every month, and otherwise, you may need it more, but you're not gonna get it out of that bag. It's up to the government. That's gotta happen right there. That must be done there." I think we should think about that. If you say you don't want to, that's fine, then I don't think you're going with me. But I hope that there are more parties that are willing to think about new ways to respond to that question that people have when they come to the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u65	I note that the VVD itself has not thought about it at all. They have no idea what kind of proposal they are putting on the table, but they are making a number of accusations to me, which I think are very unjustified, because I never said that. The question I asked the VVD is: where is the limit; how much money can people get out of the WW pool for education? The WW-pot must be supplemented by the employers, because they do pay the premium and not the employees. How much extra money are we going to ask the employers to make this plan possible? That's what I asked. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u66	This is about the fact that we can also use the current rights in a different way and that we could create opportunities for customization at the UVW. I think that I have been very clear about this, but I can see between the lines that Mr Van Kent does not like it, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u67	I see Mr Wiersma looking for new ways to get people out of the WW. I think more parties are looking for that. Different proposals have been made by different parties in recent years. When I see the different elements, I tend to say that one can be a little more positive than the other. If a plea is made here to look more closely at the money available for training and to see if more tailor-made training can be provided for specific training, then I do not think anyone is very opposed to this in advance. But if you say "we're going to allow the WW to be used individually for training," there's a risk that supply will create demand that wouldn't otherwise have been there. There is a risk that training budgets that were not actually in demand before will be financed by the WW. And then you certainly have the risk of premiums going up. I assume that is not what Mr Wiersma wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u68	In reply to Mr Gijs van Dijk's question, I said that there could also be disadvantages. We don't want to, but I think it's interesting enough to see how you could make it possible if there's an individual demand for it from someone who can just get a job that way. That's what we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u69	For this, the other suggestion, which is therefore more in the corner of more flexible management of training budgets, could also be a good option. Look at such a craft academy; there is already working with maintenance of WW. So it's about looking for different possibilities to deliver more customization here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u70	That's exactly what I said. I believe that you should look at the two sides of the coin, as I said in reply to Mrs Van Brenk, who also asked for it. But you have to look at both, I would like to say to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u71	I think we're all looking for innovative ways that work for that group that unfortunately still can't get to work. I just want to make sure I understand Mr Wiersma. A big risk that I see is that because demand creates its own supply and the supply here also its own demand, we eventually lost a lot more money to people who would normally have flowed out of the WW very quickly. I don't think we should want to. Does Mr Wiersma agree with me that we should also look at how we can use this especially where it is really necessary? Does he agree with D66 that you should indeed look wider? For example, I think that you really need to look at whether the UWV should not support wider retraining and whether the amount of training of €2,500 cannot be raised. I find that at least as interesting. Do I understand that Mr Wiersma not only wants to look at his idea, but also that he really wants to look much wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr Van Weyenberg is actually saying what I said earlier, namely that both sides are relevant. This also applies to the training budget of the UWV and the possibility of offering more tailor-made work there than is currently the case. That's one way. On the other hand, I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that we do not want to create something here where it is possible to bring the WW forward for training if it increases the risk that it costs a lot more money. The goal here is that we help people get a job sooner, that we save benefits and that we see people in that job faster. If we can't do that, of course we should never do that. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u73	I look forward to the concrete implementation of these proposals. What I really find profitable today is that I also hear the VVD here very positive about education and retraining in the WW. I remember previous Cabinets, a little further back, who wanted to put the knife in them. There's about no more education money at all. I find the focus on how we can help people in the WW really a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u74	It's a search for how people themselves can take more direction. It fits in very well with what the cabinet does to develop a lifetime. We have had several debates on this, including the learning account and its filling. All these possibilities will soon be part of that choice in the WW to get to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mr. Chairman. I built up my story to a third point. The points went from less controversial to controversial. So now it's going to be the reboot runway, the reboot runway. The VVD argues for this together with the ANBO. In the pension world, we see the success of the generation pact. That's actually some kind of innovation. We wanted to help people cut down from work to retirement, and we came up with new things for that, for example 70% work at 80% pay and 90% retirement. But that same innovation would be very helpful for all those people who are not yet ready for that step, who are still a little younger, but old enough to face problems in the labour market, and which we have seen in recent times that this group is the hardest to get in the way of the 45-pluser, the 50-pluser. As you get older, it gets more complicated. How do you get back to work? A permanent job is sometimes just too much to ask for. The short-term job is actually too much to ask of the older one. Yeah, sure, it's nice if it helps you get back to work. But wouldn't it be much nicer if we chose that golden middle way a lot more often? A long-term contract of about three years with the right extra education, with perhaps a slightly lower start, but then a faster growth, with a good chance to get back in the way. In doing so, I call on employers in particular to offer this opportunity. We see examples of this type of contract... not so much for the elderly, but in general.... in the supermarkets, in universities. Those are more and more long-term temporary contracts. Should we not be talking to social partners in order to make it a good package specifically for the elderly target group that we agree in collective agreements, with which we give older people real perspective again? I believe that we are obliged to do so because we now have a lot of instruments, such as no-risk policies, development advice and training budgets, but we see that they are not enough yet. Shouldn't we stimulate innovation with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u77	This was the category controversial?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u78	There's two people at the Interrupt Microphone, so it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u79	I'll see if you can wrap this up. Then I'll go to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u80	This point has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u81	It is a controversial proposal, but in itself we are quite prepared to look at it, also because it was drafted together with the ANBO. In any case, this makes it clear that there is social support for it, at least in part of society. But then there must be clarity on two very important points. I hope you can provide it. The first is that it cannot be the intention to pay people below the minimum wage that 80%. I like to be clear about that. The second point is at least as important to us: how are you going to ensure that people get a permanent contract after three years? You say it's not fixed, it's not flex. But if you do not know how to deal with this in your proposal, it will become yet another form of flex. And we already have way too many of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u82	On that last point, we have a whole package of measures taken by this cabinet, which you also have an opinion on. We will soon be discussing this package in the Chamber and the aim is to increase the attractiveness of permanent jobs. On that first point: no, it is not my intention to be below the minimum wage here. Not at all, I'd say. However, it is intended to tempt an employer to hire someone, to tempt an employee, a job seeker in this case, to accept that he may need a step of training. Indeed, that 80% could be an example of what you agree on in collective agreements. Once again, I would like to put the question to the Minister whether he would like to discuss with the social partners what works for this. We cannot impose that here. That is up to them, but it might be a suggestion to pay 80% and allow 20% in training. In the end, the costs to the employer may remain the same, but then the employee will also be paid out in training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u83	I welcome Mr Wiersma's answer to my first question, namely that it is not intended to be below the minimum wage. I hope that is also hard in the proposal that you are probably going to submit this. Secondly, I am much less reassured, because I read that you said to the NIS that you hope that this will lead to a fixed contract. I think a lot of things have been invented in the past that we hoped would lead to a permanent contract. If you don't take care of that a little better, that's probably not gonna happen. So I would really like to know from you how you are going to do that, otherwise it will be very difficult for us to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u84	Like Mr Smeulders, I do not have a red button with which we are going to get that fixed orbit, even though we would sometimes like that red button. However, I do not think that Mr Smeulders and the cabinet have a whole package of measures to ensure that this opportunity is as great as possible. I challenge Mr Smeulders to take part in that package in thinking about how we are going to achieve it. I see him smiling and I see that's confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u85	Oh, Mr. Smeulders, it says in the Acts that you laughed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u86	He's not denying it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u87	No, he's not denying it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u88	It's a good thing you're laughing around here. I am very pleased that the VVD is taking part in helping older workers get back to work, because that is very important. But I have the same concerns as GroenLinks. How do we ensure that employers do not think: we have the next dose of cheaper labour and after three years I can go back to asking them? What's different about this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u89	What is different, hopefully, is that we really do see that for a lot of older people there is actually too little choice to get back to work. They really want to apply for a job, but they are told that they are not suitable, too old or want to earn too much salary, while Joop Schippers' research, which you also know, indicated that older people are very willing, also want to be very flexible, also like to meet the employer and actually want to drag him to his jacket: come on, give me the chance to work again. Two weeks ago, it was a day of work. Then I talked to someone from 63, Jan, who wanted to get back to work and didn't get in the way either. He then went to get his taxi diploma and was rehired. I thought he showed that company that he was very motivated and wanted to do that part of the training. That company gave him the confidence: okay, then you're there; you have a job again. That kind of example needs to be made much more. We need new ideas for that. So this is a new idea. No, it's not an idea to put older people away cheaply or put them on the labour market cheaply, because I think that's both bad. No, it's an idea to attract people. I hope that we are going to do this together, but we also know that this is certainly true for you, Mr President, that we should settle this at the collective agreement table. We cannot impose this on each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u90	Sure, we've seen that Vlasblom and Schippers' research was pretty worrying, because it also said that older people were willing to pay, but that still didn't get any extra work. We would be very much in favour of this proposal if there were also a job guarantee after three years of registration. Then you would make us incredibly happy, because then it is really worth the investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u91	As far as I am concerned, we are sending the Minister to discuss this with the social partners and see what he can do about it. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u92	I just said, when it came to the WW, how careful that we are dealing with the VVD. Now we are really dealing with the VVD, because I am a little less friendly about this proposal. This is because you are 45 years old and you are allowed to work more flexibly for a lower salary. That's the true nature of the VVD, I'd say. They are fine words, because we also want to solve this, so that people who are a little older can just get to work, but not with a lower salary and with longer temporary contracts, because that doesn't help those people at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u93	I think we are both about the same young, but in thinking Mr Van Dijk repeats here in particular the thinking that we have also seen at the FNV. There are also trade unions who think very positive and new about this. For example, the CNV has done very good things in the supermarket sector. The FNV wouldn't take part in that. I hear a bit of the same line. I would like to say to Mr Van Dijk: let us not think about these institutions and old things. Let us think about how to help older people to work, with the agreement that more training is needed and then a faster growth towards a nice and better wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u94	The VVD sketches it as if it's all rose scent and moonshine, but so many people don't have that solid ground under their feet. What we want is to give that certainty to everyone. That is 2018, I say to the VVD, and that is absolutely necessary. We do not do this by breaking down security for some groups of people, but by increasing security. That's 2018 and that's new thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u95	That is exactly the proposal we are making and precisely the one you are dismissing. I think that's really old thinking and mortal sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u96	The reality is that it is simply extremely difficult for a lot of elderly people who want to get to work. This has to do with the crisis, for example; people have been evicted. The latest figures show that people are struggling to overcome the effects of the crisis. Next I hear that the VVD makes proposals to increase the AOW age. So on the one hand people don't get to work, but you also see a group of people who, when they are at work, find it increasingly difficult to reach the AOW age. Then increase the AOW age. That's not consistent, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u97	I think we all see that this is not just about people who are 65 or 66 years old. Joop Schippers' research indicates that the group of people who are difficult to get to work is a broad group. I assume it is not your proposal to send people with 55 years of AOW, but frankly I haven't heard a single proposal in your contribution for what you would like to do for this group to help them get a job, except for a lot of honking horn. I am happy to give you the opportunity to give us something about this so that we can find something about it. It's very easy to burn it down only when someone else comes up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u98	That is not an answer to the question at all. I just asked a question. You can see that it's hard for a lot of older people to get to work, no matter how much they want, because there's a lot on the side, and on the other hand you can see that when people are already working, they're getting sick more and more. Last week we saw an increase in the number of disability benefits for the older age group. There are more and more people who are disabled due to the increase in the AOW age. But you will continue to raise the AOW age. You could also say: we are going to try to do everything in our power to help these people get to work, and until then we will at least freeze the AOW age. What's wrong with that? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u99	This surprises me very much. There was a whole debate yesterday about retirement. Mr De Jong also heard at the time that the coalition parties are prepared to step over their shadow here. They are prepared to take all kinds of mitigating measures for that group that is having a hard time getting that last tail to the AOW. On that package, Mr De Jong says: I think all this is bad, I do not like it; no, what I want is freezing at 66, 11 billion and burdening future generations with the burden. That is all very well, but I think that is an incredibly bad proposal. Then the Netherlands is not going to help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u100	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u101	That's what you get every time. If you say, "Listen, we want to help the people who are struggling right now and who are going sick towards the AOW age, by freezing at least the AOW age; then the VVD says, "No, we don't want that." In the meantime, they make a beautiful ornament by saying: we must help these people. That doesn't rhyme with each other. That is why I would like to call on the VVD to be honest with that group of people for once and say: we only use you as a milk cow, we just want you to work until your death and we are not going to help you. That is the honest story of the VVD. Just admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u102	I would like to hear Mr De Jong's honest story about the ideas he has to really get this group to work and really move forward. I don't hear that one. I would remind Mr De Jong that he was the first to give away the AOW immediately in the 2010 elections. Then maybe he could have helped those old people, and he didn't do that at all. Those promises by the PVV are therefore worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u103	In the past, proposals have been made very often, especially from the VVD angle, to give employers discounts and gifts in the hope that this will lead to more jobs for people who are difficult to get into the labour market. I would like to mention, for example, the no-risk policies, the low-income advantage and wage costs subsidies. We have seen a lot of regulations over the last ten years. Can Mr Wiersma mention one that has really demonstrated progress for workers in terms of employment and later on a fixed contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u104	I think those examples are there, but I don't have them here for picking up now. We don't have these instruments for nothing. I have said, however, that I am struck by the fact that these instruments are not always used equally well and do not always work as well. So I also asked the Minister how we could do better, because we have a whole range of things. You rightly mentioned them, but then you must use them as well. Then we must also ensure that this leads to perspective. I am curious how we can do better, but there are really examples of employers who I know who have hired and are delighted with no-riskpolis people. They have seen that they have a lot to gain and then, and sometimes also immediately, give them that permanent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u105	I've been following the way that's happened for the past ten years. It has always been the case that employers did indeed receive pennies, but in my view it has never really been established that it has a real effect. There are, of course, exemplary examples to come up with. Of course, there are employers who say they are grateful for that. I also spoke to employers who said, "I was surprised. I just got paid up. I don't know why." But it's always been gifts from the VVD for those employers. And now the VVD goes even further. Now it's not just a gift from the government to those employers, but now the VVD is even asking for a wage offer from the employees, just a 20% discount, for that employer. So what problem are you solving here? Do you not see that the subsidies and gifts for employers have not always worked in the past, and that this is not therefore a solution to the problem that you are right to raise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u106	What I regret is that Mr Van Kent is actually putting the blackhead in companies that, while they really need everyone who can work at the company, also help a lot of people to work at that company, including people who have been on the sidelines for a while. As a result, they can do their work in the shop on Saturdays or Sunday mornings. There are many examples of this. It's always those companies you always say "they're the grabbers, they're the wrong ones, they don't want that at all." No, those are companies that are helping people get a job. They will allow these people to spend more when they shop in the grocery store. Anything that contributes to helping these people get a job, anything, we have to do. It's not always gonna work out. No. But that's what we're together for to make that better, isn't it? I think it's such a shame that you just say, "Well, those employers, they don't do anything." Because if we don't have any employers at all, then we don't have any jobs at all, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u107	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u108	That's the usual string of the VVD, when I was talking about the proposal that the VVD was doing here. The VVD mentions the supermarkets here. Do you remember how that went with the young disabled who with subsidy at the Albert Heijn... A contract was signed, a deal was made with Ahold. Do you remember how those young disabled people ended?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u109	Will Mr. Van Kent say that if things don't go well sometimes you shouldn't try? Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u110	You cannot mention any example where it went well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u111	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u112	I think there are a lot of examples. There are also examples where the retraining budget... The letters we received from the cabinet show many examples of how many people use career advice and how many people use retraining budgets. I have mentioned here the Craft Academy and Reinier who, simply because of the help he gets from the UWV and by retaining the benefit, can get to work. If Mr Van Kent says "nothing works," then I think he is very cynical. Then I think there is no point in him adding anything at all to this debate. We're trying to find things that work together, aren't we? I want to challenge you to think together about innovations that help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u113	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u114	I note that the VVD is only interested in giving gifts to the big companies and that it does not really mean anything to the people who are looking for work: young disabled people, older jobseekers and so on. That disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u115	I will then wait for Mr Van Kent's good ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u117	I had three proposals. I still have a lifelong development of a concern at this particular The cabinet is also aware of that. It is about taxation and obstacles to training. This cabinet is working hard in many branches on all kinds of opportunities to start learning accounts, for example, but it often encounters two problems. Even without paying VAT, you can take the budget with you to another employer. This has already been discussed in the general consultation Lifelong Learning. The Minister also wrote a letter about this, but branches still have concerns about it. I think this will require a longer search in the near future. How can we do that right so we don't create fear? And how do we prevent, if the training is not seen as a follow-up to your current work, that the budget is regarded as a wage and that it also has to be taxed? There are also good examples. The AWVN has mentioned a lot of them, also towards the Chamber, which is now being made unnecessarily complicated. So I'd like an approach from the cabinet on that. I'm getting to the labour market block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr. Chairman. I am now responding because Mr Wiersma refers to the AWVN. I think they wrote a very interesting piece a few months ago, containing elements that may appeal to you more, but also to me as a GroenLinks politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr Wiersma says he'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u120	Also on disability insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u121	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u122	You will then have the opportunity to ask questions about this. Proceed, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr. Chairman. Everyone is needed in the labour market, but it is not self-evident. This requires a labour market that works for everyone. The labour market will only really work for everyone if we improve the right of dismissal, address bottlenecks in SMEs, make the temporary contract more secure and make the fixed contract more attractive. It is good that all these elements are brought together in one law. But it is a law to hurry; preferably this year. We are therefore dealing with the law, which I am assuming very soon, so for now I leave him for what he is, and I focus on two important elements that the VVD still lacks in that law. The first is pay-as-you-go in case of illness. It is precisely for the small employers that it is a crime to find the good people now and then to dare to accept them. The easing of this payment of wages in the event of illness is something these entrepreneurs are waiting for with sorrow, which the whole Chamber is waiting for, which I think is what the whole polder is waiting for, but which we can actually say takes a very long time. So I ask the Minister: what is the state of affairs, when is the white smoke coming? The second point concerns thezzp'ers, to which I think Mr Smeulders also wanted to refer. Last year the VVD together with D66 asked for a quick elaboration of the relationship of authority. There is now a section of the cabinet which, in my opinion, looks generally good and is in the right direction. I can imagine that not everything was immediately poured into concrete, and that there is room to make things better when we are running into it in practice. So it's an ungoing piece; that's how we see it. It is good that it is there now, because then we can have that discussion even further. In this respect, we are therefore pleased that it is on course. We therefore insist that this realzzp'er deserves clarity as soon as possible, so that he can do what he is good at: doing important assignments. The possible effect with the aim of giving clients certainty, for example through that law module, also sounds hopeful. Is it true that the Minister is on the way to putting that module into operation on 1 January 2020? On the bottom, progress is more limited. There is also our concern, and I think it will be widely shared in this Chamber. In fact, the coalition agreement contains a comprehensive package of measures aimed at bringing this goal of firm and flexible closer together. I am very curious to see what the Minister's expectations on this particular point are now, also in relation to what he keeps writing about Europe. Are we going to get Europe in the right position? Now we're gonna say to each other, guys, we want this and we're gonna fight it for each other? Or are we overtaken by another reality? And can he explain how, until then, we are going to maintain stronger at the bottom, so that we may achieve more results on that point than we do now? The Minister has shown what happened at the bottom in enforcement. My question is: how does the Minister himself reflect on this and does he see the possibility of giving the Tax Administration an even clearer and more decisive role in this? Last year, the VVD, together with D66, presented a proposal to examine the future of the contract of employment. A year later, the Minister even set up a whole committee for this. Good, but we also have one concern, and it is actually in the debate on the share of wages. The CPB showed a nice piece about that last week. We have had discussions before about the labour income ratio and the role of flexibilisation. The CPB sees a declining share of wages and also an important factor, namely labour productivity. As a result of this, my group would find it very interesting to think through, in particular because the CPB points out that the government could influence labour productivity, and that there is still too little knowledge about it, as well as its effectiveness. That's actually a shame. So isn't this a process we have to go through? If this labour productivity is so important, then we also have a button to increase the purchasing power of that share of wages, the increase in wages. That is something I think we all want. So we'd like to see a follow-up. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Van Dijk standing, but I just promised Mr Smeulders that I would come back... I think it would be nice if I did that first and Mr Van Dijk then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u124	That is indeed up to the President, as Mr Van Dijk says. You're taking over, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u125	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u126	Mr Wiersma also has cubes, I understand. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u127	I see Mr Smeulders standing so impatiently. He wants to hear something. I wonder if he really wants to hear it. You may not be able to imagine it, I say to Mr Smeulders, but there are people who are deliberately leaving employment behind. I'd feel like it's a damn shame to push those people into employment. But there are also people, I say immediately, who are pushed into something but are not entrepreneurs. I believe that we should have the fundamental courage to choose within those groups, and to separate the real entrepreneur from the non-real entrepreneur. But I'm not gonna bother that real entrepreneur with all kinds of obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u128	You were done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u129	Yeah, I'm expecting another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u130	You would come back to Mr Smeulders. That's what you've done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u131	I leave that to Mr Smeulders. But I think I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u132	Good. Mr. Smeulders, is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u133	It's a nice introductory shooting. We'll just get back to that. I think we might be able to find each other on this. We also see, of course, that there are real entrepreneurs who choose to bezzp'er, with the advantages and disadvantages that go with it. You can also see that more and more people arezzp'er when they don't really want to be. My first question to you concerns that. You just said something about it. The Cabinet does the same. But we just see that practically nothing happens. Do you think that's unacceptable? Do you also think that measures really need to be taken in the short term? Because we've been talking about it for a long time now, but nothing's actually happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u134	And not "find you" but "find Mr Wiersma." Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u135	This is a question that can be about a lot of things at once. I'm just gonna take the measures that the cabinet wants to take forzzp'ers. We have that search with Europe. I say then: come on, let us show Europe that we have solutions for this that will help many more countries, which are also being discussed on this issue. That solution is to work with a minimum rate. We're gonna distinguish thatzzp'er at the bottom that's not a realzzp'er. We're gonna get it back on the job. Everything that comes with it, insurance against disability, unemployment and sickness and pension, is in it. That's the route this cabinet chooses. In doing so, the real entrepreneur keeps the freedom to decide for himself, because he also chooses to do so, how he implements his entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u136	That's an interesting point. I am curious to see what rates Mr Wiersma sees for himself. If you want to pay pensions, disability and all kinds of other social matters, what rates do you intend to pay, so that this can actually be paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr Smeulders has not been a spokesperson for very long, but I suspect he knows what rates the cabinet has written down in the government agreement. Those are the rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u138	Let's talk about the entrepreneurs. Then let me take the hardworking construction worker who works through self-employment and earns a good living. That construction worker's 58 or 59. He's paid contributions for years and he's got himself a decent insurance policy, because he could fall off that dock one day. But then he gets to hear from his insurance company: sorry, you're too old, goodbye. What is the message of the VVD for this hardworking construction worker?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u139	This is a valid point. That construction worker deliberately chose to do it on his own. He does that with all the risks around him. He wants to make sure of that. If you've had a job and then become an adult, there are possibilities to insure you immediately, via UWV and insurance, but especially when you're older, there are categories that insurers look at. They let that depend on whether you can assure yourself or not. The cabinet has also said that, and we think this is very important: it cannot lead to the fact that the person who is working for the agency has nowhere to go at all in the end? I thought you said that was a damn shame. But it cannot lead us to say: then it must be compulsory, and then we will decide for them what is good. And right on the middle road, the cabinet has made proposals, not only for those rates, but also for the conversation with insurers about this. There has also been a letter, which you have undoubtedly seen, in which actions are put in place. Is that enough for me? Well, I hope there'll be more action, let me put it this way. Because I think it should be more accessible and easier to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u140	That's exactly the letter. The letter says: we will continue the conversation with the insurers. Well, you can keep feeding that endlessly, but the insurance company will just say, "You're a little old. You're a big risk to us. You're too expensive. Goodbye!" That's just the practice. It's not gonna change. I can give you that on a note. You can throw three more committees at that, but that's not gonna happen. So I ask the VVD if the VVD is willing to look with us at forms of an acceptance obligation for all those insurers, so that apart from your disease history, regardless of your age and regardless of your profession is said: you are welcome to us and you can insure yourself with us at an affordable premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u141	However, I am hopeful that the conversation with insurance companies can produce something. And when it comes to all kinds of things that are necessary for that, I trust that the Minister will look closely at them with the insurers. Then we'll hear as a chamber how that can be done. But I've seen it, and I agree with you: that yield is lean. But that doesn't mean we don't think it's important that it gets better. And that is precisely the commitment of this cabinet. I would like to say: have some confidence in those insurers to do it, because they see this problem too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u142	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u143	Finally, Mr President. I would like to ask Mr Wiersma of the VVD. What if these conversations don't work out? And I would point out to you that the insurers will say: rightly, but it is very difficult for us, because risks and so on. Is the VVD prepared to show the political will to take the necessary measures here? Quite apart from compulsory, but at least an acceptance obligation and at least an affordable premium? Does the VVD want to activate that? Because I expect us to stand here again in a year's time and say: that's really necessary. Is the VVD willing to do that to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u144	The cabinet wants to increase the level of insurance amongzzp'ers and talks about this with the insurers. I'll wait for that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u145	I also read the letter. I found it disappointing, because I had hoped that further steps would be taken. It is extremely important for us that it is affordable for everyone. So is the VVD also willing to look at a collective alternative, possibly in public hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u146	The cabinet chooses a different route, and so do we. We choose with the cabinet the route of distinguishing between the realzzp'er and the one who actually had to become an entrepreneur in order to keep his job at all. Of those kinds of constructions we say to each other: we do not want them. That's the route the cabinet chooses. And the cabinet doesn't choose the route to put all those entrepreneurs in compulsory insurance. No, because we say quite a lot of people choose to become entrepreneurs themselves. The last thing they want is to be forced into that employment. And that you think lightly is fine. But I do not, because I speak to a lot of entrepreneurs who say: I can take care of it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u147	Another point is the question of what is a'self-employed person'. We do not yet see any immediate clarity about this either. That too is being pushed up again. And in the meantime, we see a lot of people getting stuck and uninsured at work. We both don't want that. Then my question is: can we not do something together now? You belong to the outstretched hand, also to the PvdA and to many others. This is a problem that needs to be solved now. And we don't really see these insurers moving enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u148	I recognize the problem. I have now also given this to the Minister: hurry up with the elaboration and with the discussion with the insurers. So I share the urgency, but I say honestly about the solution: I am not going to impose obligations on entrepreneurs who do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u149	I heard a spokesperson on Radio 1 on behalf of the Association of Insurers say that they simply do not insure people with a heavy occupation over 60 years at all, because the risk of disability is far too great for those people. Does Mr Wiersma estimate that if Mr Koolmees keeps chatting with those insurers, then something will change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u150	I'll leave you to chat. But I do hope we're just gonna settle this with those insurance companies. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u151	What is the VVD's view if it is not settled with the insurers? Do you think that the government has a responsibility in this, for example for the real entrepreneur who wants to ensure himself, but is systematically refused for years because the work is too heavy? We both know that for a construction worker over 60 years old, for example, there is a high risk of incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr Van Kent obviously cannot imagine that there are also people who consciously choose to do so. They want that freedom and don't choose to be an employee. So I am not going over the bridge that you are proposing here, namely that we should force all those people into insurance. I'll go over the bridge and we'll have to speed up the conversation with insurance companies, as you say. I also said that I would like to know how the Minister is going to deal with this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u153	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u154	The assessment of many here is that chatting with insurers is not gonna do anything. My question to the VVD is: if that real entrepreneur wants to insure himself now, today, but is refused by the insurer, do you think the government has a responsibility in that at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u155	We fill in that responsibility by having the conversation with these insurers. We hope we can get out of there. You can call it "talking," but I hope there'll just be a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u156	I suggest that you continue your speech now, because you have been standing here for over an hour. But you still have speaking time and it also has to do with interruptions. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u157	I end up with the easiest theme, the polder. As former chairman of FNV Jong, I will be the first to recognise the value of employers' and employees' representatives. That's what I said last year in this place. The employee no longer exists, the representativeness sometimes clouds best and the degree of organization is falling, while one thing is not changing: the parties sitting at the consultation tables. Therefore, for the future-proofing of the consultative economy, I closed last year's minister to the role of union coach of the polder. I said very carefully at the time: I hope you are more successful than we have seen on the football field in recent years. Seriously, there's a big concern here. I am curious to see how the Minister views this concern, because our common strength is that together we take responsibility for difficult choices, so that we move forward together and jump to a higher point together. How does the Minister see this, with many more items on the agenda? There's been a lot of interruptions here, too. How does the Minister see that in the near future? Does the Minister now see room for new collectives at the existing tables? Thezzp'ers are frequently mentioned in the debate, but they have so far visited the minister twice in a field meeting. I am also thinking of youth organisations. They may occasionally join the ESC, but do they really have something to say? I know very well myself, from my role at FNV Jong. Isn't it better to use these auxiliary transmitters for the future of the consultative economy to coach the polder in the right direction? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up for my contribution. We've got a big year ahead of us. Hopefully next year, during this same debate, we will be able to look back and see that the progress of the Netherlands is not only visible when you look down from an airplane, but that people also experience it themselves by the certainty of a beautiful job or study, that we can see it from the empty card boxes of the UWV and the municipality, that we notice it in the wallet, that we notice it to the satisfied entrepreneurs, who can handle the work again, and that we notice it to the employees, who feel sure in the rapidly changing world. If we can achieve that, I'm happy. That's the challenge I'd like to face, with all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u158	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u159	No, I still have Mrs Nijkerken's contribution here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u160	You said, "I'll finish." So I thought I could go to the next speaker. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u161	The best is yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u162	Well, we're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u163	I get the suggestion of wearing something else, but I don't think I'm doing you any favors in view of time. Mr. Chairman. My colleague would have liked to make a number of points. I'll make it sec and pass it on to the cabinet. First, the broad offensive. This has now been presented with many interested parties in order to offer people with disabilities the opportunity to work. The principles are clear: to make it easier for employers and jobseekers, to make it more attractive for people with disabilities and to make it easier for employers and jobseekers to find each other. It is good that these different schemes are now harmonised and simplified so that employers can also contribute to creating jobs for people with disabilities. And that it's also about making work really pay off. The VVD appreciates the ambition and also the pace the Secretary of State chooses for this further elaboration. We are all obliged to do so, because we must now continue and achieve the ambition and keep the pace high. Then the candidate scout. In doing so, municipalities and UWV must really know the people. Two times 35 million euros are going to these labour market regions. The VVD wants to ask the Secretary of State what stick it has behind the door now that funds are being made available again and who is responsible, despite the funds already made available to those labour market regions. But it is still not in order to include, for example, people in that candidate scout. What's the consequence if that doesn't work out? What does that mean for those resources? And making the file transparent also helps to get people back to work. That is what the labour market is all about. So we're really gonna have to take care of this. Then there's the digital participation file. The VVD has previously drawn attention to this, for a personal overview of what someone can do and where clearly states what support someone needs to be able to work again and all the agreements he or she has made with the municipality regarding that request for help. The Secretary of State would discuss this with the municipalities. The VVD likes to hear the results. Then there's the language requirement and the consideration. In the government agreement, we agreed that the Secretary of State will discuss the active implementation of the language requirement and the contribution to the assistance. The VVD would like to hear what the government's commitment is on all these points if the municipalities do not comply with these agreements and if the results of their efforts are not forthcoming. Are there sufficient incentives for municipalities to be able to actively implement that language requirement and that consideration? Because there is more and more money going to municipalities, but with these results, how is the cabinet going to ensure this? Mr. Chairman. Then wealth and fraud in welfare. Fraud in benefits is unacceptable to all of us here. It can't be true that you hold your hand up here and have assets abroad. That is the theft of our community money, and as far as the VVD is concerned, the benefit will be stopped in that case and will be recovered as to what was wrongly paid, plus a fine. Fraud shouldn't be able to pay. It only turns out that the practice for municipalities is tough and that municipalities often comply too little with agreements to detect and deal with fraud abroad. Municipalities that do carry on, then run into bizarre rules. The municipality finds fraud and suspends the benefit, but then imposes a fine and recovers the undue benefits. It is only through this fine and this recovery that the fraudster is entitled to a benefit, which is precisely what we do not want. The Secretary of State has announced to investigate this, but as far as the VVD is concerned this needs to be adjusted and as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Finally. My colleague Mr Becker has asked for an action plan for self-determination from the Minister. That motion was also passed this week. It would be nice for the Minister to tell us in a letter how he is going to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u164	Were you really done with your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u165	Now I'm really done. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u167	Tough talk from the VVD. We also saw it this morning in De Telegraaf, that they would supposedly want to tackle benefit fraud. Besides, I don't have to go back eight years for the next thing I'm gonna say. 11 October 2018, a PVV motion: "calls on the government to do everything in the event of benefit fraud and to recover the amount of fraud up to the last cent plus penalty and legal interest." And not with a statute of limitations. What do I see? The VVD is against it. That's the way it goes over and over. We have budgetary treatment, the treatments for it and all those motions that call for a stricter approach to benefit fraud to vote against and then pretend to be in favour of it during the budgetary procedure. Explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u168	I think I'm very clear. We've now asked the Secretary of State to do it. So we have the same message. Mr De Jong did not manage to do it. I'm gonna try to get it done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u169	I didn't get it done? What nonsense is that? I'll make you a deal. Every time it is said that we do not make proposals, but we do them on the conveyor belt. I put forward a proposal a few weeks ago, which we have made for years, to really tackle benefit fraud. I'm filing a motion. Anyone can read it back, but the VVD votes against! Two, three weeks later, they're standing here telling me it has to be done. You can't explain that, can you? The same applies to the municipalities. It is a nice story towards the Secretary of State: the municipalities must maintain the language requirement. I shall table a motion requiring that the language requirement be maintained. The VVD is against it. You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u170	I think we are in the same position here and we are trying to figure out how you're really gonna do this. We are now asking the Secretary of State to do this. I don't know about that motion back then. I wasn't in the Chamber at the time, so I don't know what the considerations were to vote against. We're making a proposal now. I hope, together with Mr De Jong, that we will be able to strengthen the policy of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u171	Rounding up. I wasn't in the room? Perhaps Mr Wiersma was asleep, because the motion dates from 11 October 2018. A motion from the PVV of 11 October 2018: retrieve the money from those welfare fraudsters. The VVD is against, but a few weeks later they say: we have to do that. This is the way it goes over and over again, including the municipalities. And then say we can't do anything. The VVD's holding it back! In a moment, the Secretary of State says, "We're going to have a conversation." Then the VVD says again: we agree. Mr Wiersma must be ashamed of himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u172	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u173	We're not stopping anything. In fact, we just want to take care of this. We're asking the Secretary of State to put this into action as well. We do not do that by means of a motion with texts on matters that may not be possible in practice. We're just asking the Secretary of State to fight this for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u174	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u175	Mr. Chairman. I have a question about social services. The previous cabinet had invented to close it under the pretext that these people would then be able to enter the labour market, within regular companies. In practice, we see that this is a difficult process. There may be hundreds of thousands of people on the sidelines. They fall between shore and ship, people with disabilities whom you and I are dying to get to work. Is Mr Wiersma prepared to see with me how we can broaden access to the SW for people who are now at home and cannot work in a regular business?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u176	I'll take over this argument. I am not in the details, but I understand that this is part of a broad offensive to see how we can get people back in, including by making the old SW companies work more together with companies in the environment in a new way. I assume this will be further worked out in the letter from the Secretary of State. I'll leave that to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u177	I interpret this as: the glass is half full. Mr Wiersma does not rule it out, but I am actually asking him to answer with common sense, without knowing all the letters and texts. Does he agree with me that people with disabilities should not be at home, but should be able to get to work? If that doesn't work because of the hectic nature of an ordinary business, then we need to be able to offer them a safe place in a social work facility or whatever you want to call it these days. I don't care, but we need to create a safe place for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u178	There is a search for how you can clear that safe place and how you can help with that through innovations. I think it would be a good idea to continue this search, although I do not have full knowledge on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u179	Thank you very much, Mr Wiersma. I call Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating these two rulers. It is exactly 100 years since the Ministry of Labour was founded this year. That was a very important beginning of our welfare state and of our social security. 'Cause think about it. 1919: the introduction of the eight-hour working day. 1930: the introduction of the Disease Act. 1941: child benefit. 1965: the introduction of the General Assistance Act. We have built up a lot over the last 100 years, but you may already feel it coming, Mr President, our social security system has unfortunately been less and less secure in recent years. More and more people have an insecure contract. They are, for example,zzp'er, when they don't really want to. More and more people have to claim supplementary poverty schemes and more and more people are in debt. My colleague Wim-Jan Renkema will discuss this later. Of course it is very different now than 100 years ago, but GroenLinks is worried. Because living in uncertainty leads to stress and discontent. It leads to your survival, and that doesn't make you a better person. Our system is increasingly based on mistrust, financial incentives and efficiency. And less and less on trust, participation and support. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is really time for more trust in people, more security and more welfare state. We will therefore make a number of proposals today and tomorrow to ensure that we make our social security better and not worse. I shall begin with the most topical issue: pensions. We had a debate yesterday with the Prime Minister and Minister Koolmees. I thought that was a good debate, because from that debate it became clear that the whole Chamber, from left to right, wants us to come up with a new pension system. Two moments in that debate were, in our view, very important. That was Mr Buma's motion from the CDA, which was tabled very widely, to really look at that one-on-one link and actually to let it go in the long run, because we all know that it is not feasible and real. This is an important step towards a more social system. The second step, which I think was important, was the motion that Mr Klaver tabled with the group chairmen of the two other left parties, with a number of principles that a new pension system should comply with. Mr Koolmees still struggled a little with the answer. It won't be voted on until next week. I really hope that on this basis we can take a joint step towards a new system. Twice a hand out, huh? Yesterday in the discussion, there was relatively little attention to the pension contract itself, which is still quite an important part of the new pension system. Actually, that makes a lot of sense. In order to be able to make a wise decision about this in future as GroenLinks, it is really important that we know exactly what was discussed and what was discussed. The Prime Minister said: we have made a lot of calculations, on the main lines and more at the level of detail, of what, for example, means abolishing the average systematique. I would like to ask the Minister whether we can understand these calculations, because it is important for us to be able to see whether or not we agree with them. Then there is my final point about pensions. This concerns the initiative law which Mr Klaver announced yesterday and which I submitted this morning. The main aim of this initiative law is to avoid short-term cuts in pension benefits and pensions, because we believe that this is very bad for the system's support. We are going to talk about this as soon as possible, hopefully as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u181	I always find it a little complicated, if you don't change the contract, to start working on the rules of the game. I have two questions. The first is: the calculation time for the first funds is December next year. That gives us more than a year. What I would find, apart from the content, a very unfortunate picture, is that the impression is that it will no longer be possible to reach an agreement on pensions before next December. That is, I hope, not the background to this proposal? As far as I'm concerned, we have another year. I get the impression that GroenLinks has given up a pension agreement in the coming months. That's not the issue, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u182	No, that's definitely not the issue. We also hope that a new pension agreement will be reached as soon as possible, but a social one. We just saw it collapsed. We all regret that. Then we can say: it's either that or it's the one, but it just failed. We are always prepared to think, on the basis of the three points mentioned yesterday in that motion, about how we can achieve a better system. But quite frankly, I am not very hopeful at the moment that it will be possible in the very short term. If you have any other ideas, we are always prepared to do so. The reason why we are now putting forward this initiative law is because we say that it would be totally bad for the support base if there were discounts. I would like to add one more thing. Mr Klaver did the same yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u183	That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u184	Mr Klaver did that yesterday, but it is also a hand-off to D66. We do not see this as: we postpone it for a few years and we will see. Suppose the initiative law is adopted, then we feel the obligation as GroenLinks to come up with a new system in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u185	The initiative proposal was tabled today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u187	So it's still being treated in the Chamber, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u188	Hopefully, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u189	Okay, but you're already anticipating that. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u190	We are talking about some 1,300, 1,400 billion pension money, so I think that should also be included in the Social Affairs budget. In Mr Klaver's motion I think we are looking together, wide in this Chamber, for a solution, three themes were identified. There was a whole debate about the exact wording. There was one not in it, and that was the accounting rate. The social partners had said in their draft opinion: no, we continue to count on risk-free interest rates. Can I conclude from the fact that it has not been mentioned that the advocacy to a higher interest rate, which I always hear from Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Krol, is not part of the hard work of GroenLinks? I was a little worried about that yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u191	Look, when it comes to pensions, it's very often about calculation rates. I understand that in itself, because it determines whether or not you can index, but in the end it has to be about how much pension we build up and can pay out. The calculation rate is only one of the components. I also know what Mr Van Weyenberg probably wants to make as follows: in the past, GroenLinks was always very critical of looking at the calculation rate and I see that GroenLinks might be putting it there now. I would like to say a few words about this. That interest rate is not a sacred grail for us. There are many people who say: please stay away from it, but there are also people who say, among other things, Koen Teulings, not one of the dumbest people in the Netherlands, former CP director, you can do something about that. We organised a hearing on this at the beginning of the year. There you can hear different signals. So we would like to look at this arithmetic rate, but in the overall package. In the whole new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u192	Mr Van Weyenberg, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u193	If you really have personal pots, then you could indeed go to another calculation rate. That is my party's preference, but Mr Smeulders knows it. My point was: I understand that the facts change, but as long as money is in a collective pot, you're going to redistribute. I think we both want something that is good for young people and pensioners. Mr Klaver referred earlier to the calculation rate approach "the disadvantage of young people." The circumstances may change, but that fact is and I really hope for the stability of GroenLinks, because I would not like to see that party in the camp of 50PLUS and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u194	It's like a swear word or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u195	To respond briefly. This is the reason why we do not support the 50PLUS initiative proposal on interest rates. The reason why we are now proposing a different own-initiative law, which actually extends the deadlines and does not mean that we are going to make every effort to do so, is also to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u196	Yesterday, I argued that this is the time to change the pension system, now that there is a boom. And the best moment is actually behind us in the past five years when interest rates were even higher. Does Mr Smeulders agree with me? Does he therefore agree with me that we must act now and that this new system must be introduced now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u197	I agree with Mr Bruins on the need for a new system. And at GroenLinks we are also willing to cooperate. We do have a problem with the following. The cabinet now seems to say a little bit: we have the pension contract, and that is the system, and then we also have a few additional things, including the AOW, which we will still settle. For example, we do not find the one-to-one coupling of the AOW very real. Let us now settle this with each other, as this country is doing well financially and economically. Let us not postpone it until another cabinet formation when we have no idea what the country is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u198	I thank Mr Smeulders for confirming that this is the time. I find it very difficult that this initiative law actually gives two years to relax. I do not rule out the fact that 'we', the polder, the employers, the workers, were almost out because there is pressure on the kettle, because there is a danger that these pensions will be cut. And no one wants and dares to do that in this country. That's why the parties were almost out. Now GroenLinks says: let's just give it another two years. Then we're in a time when the economy is going down again and there's no money to add to that pension deal. Then it doesn't come around and then GroenLinks made sure that there can't be a pension review because the money isn't there. This, Mr Smeulders, is the time for a new pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u199	I do have a problem with what Mr Bruins is doing. The cabinet would have done something similar. It was said there too: if there is a new pension system, then it will take a number of years for us to deal with all the laws that are needed for this. Mr Bruins is now creating a contradiction. He says: if we adopt the initiative law of GroenLinks, we have two years. I just don't agree with that contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u200	There was 7 billion on the shelf next to that retirement deal that was almost there. That money was there to ensure that employees' wishes could also be met. People with a heavy occupation could have quit sooner. The retirement age would increase less quickly and an investigation would be carried out. It was also said yesterday in Chambers: this is the time to close that deal. We are all in favour of this politically. I therefore call on all parties to return to the table, not to wait two years to get back into the same situation as we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u201	I would like to say one more thing about that. There was definitely something on the table. But the big problem was that all that was incidental. If, in these times of high economics, it is not possible to solve the problems in a structural way, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u202	I suggest that you continue, because there is now a wide-ranging discussion about a bill that is not yet being discussed in the Chamber. That makes the discussion a little complicated. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u203	True, but of course we are also talking about pensions in this budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u204	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u205	And then it's crazy if I don't mention them, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u206	Sure. That's what you've done extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u207	Sure, I'll get on with thezzp. The group of self-employed people in the Netherlands has doubled over the last ten years. An increasingly large group actually experiences the disadvantages of being azzp'er. Thesezzp'ers cannot insure themselves, or at least not at a decent price, they do not build up a pension and they actually work in disguised employment. And I think we all agree that measures are needed, especially for the bottom. And that's why we were disappointed when we read the letter from Minister Koolmees. In it he wrote: Europe cannot allow it. To be quite honest, GroenLinks finds that extremely regrettable. For we are in favour of Europe, as I believe Minister Koolmees is. But we are in favour of a Europe that ensures that people have security, not a Europe that only allows companies to benefit from market forces. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at this and, in particular, how he sees the follow-up. How's he gonna make sure we're really gonna do something at the bottom, which aren't actually zzp'ers? I would like to mention one specific point: the Labour Market Act in balance. We're going to be dealing with them soon, so I'll be brief about that. The idea of the Labour Market Act in balance and thezzp discussion was that they were held at the same time, because if you do the Labour Market Act in balance and do nothing fundamental to thezzp'ers, many more people are still going to grow into the category that we all do not want. So I am very curious whether Minister Koolmees still believes that these two laws should enter into force simultaneously, so the Labour Market Act in balance and the successor to the DBA Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u208	One clarifying question. I have often heard parties say here in the past: we should actually oblige all the self-employed in this country. My group has a different view on this; we prefer to seduce. But yesterday I heard Mr Klaver and today Mr Smeulders say: I am not talking about all those independent professionals and entrepreneurs who really want to be, but I am talking about the group at the bottom that is not really self-reliant and does not do it voluntarily. The coalition agreement is also trying to do something about it; I am going to say a lot about it myself. Do I hear that you are actually letting go that this is about all thezzp'ers but that you want to focus on the more vulnerable group at the bottom, which is very close to being an employee, and that you want to arrange something for that? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u209	That is also a nice little bridge to my next point: the incapacity for work for zzp'ers. If you ask us as GroenLinks, we say that we would prefer to make that mandatory. We see that at the moment 80% ofzzp'ers are not insured, while 60% say that they should, but there is no money for it or it is too complicated. That's really undesirable. Can I precalculate something for you? The statistics show that it is real that 1 in 30 Dutch people eventually become disabled. That means 50,000zzp'ers. Ten thousand of them are insured, 40,000 are not. As long as we do nothing about it, as a society, we accept that we will eventually lose 40,000 people to incapacity for work when nothing is arranged for it. For us, that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u210	I share the concerns about the low level of insurance; no misunderstanding. But I also find the group very different. One needs it, the other has arranged something else. The reason why I come back to this is that yesterday, in the event of interruption, Mr Klaver said quite explicitly: I am not talking about all those entrepreneurs. Now perhaps I hear Mr Smeulders say something else, namely that he would actually like to say that. Then I don't understand it anymore. Is this about all the self-employed? Mr Klaver was very clear and made that distinction. I found that helpful. Is that the position of GroenLinks or not? 'Cause there's a little doubt about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u211	I'm going to be helpful, too, in line with Mr Klaver. So I hope Mr Van Weyenberg will be pleased. In fact, we believe that everyone should simply be obliged to do so. But because we think this is such an important point, we are also prepared to see what we can do for this group in concrete terms. That is why tomorrow, together with the SP and the PvdA, we are tabling a motion which will keep it more open and which does not require that it should necessarily be done in this way. If we're gonna do that, our estimate is that there's probably no room for majority and nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u212	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u213	'Cause that's the way it is. We're pretty smart, aren't we? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the bottom of the labour market. It is precisely at the bottom of the labour market that there is increasing uncertainty. People are forced to work as a call force, as a payroller or as a self-employed person. Part of that is because employers' costs at low wages are relatively high and we are responsible for that ourselves. What is very positive is that the previous cabinet headed by Minister Asscher of Social Affairs said: we really need to do something about that. The cabinet came with the low-income advantage, the LIV. The idea behind it fully supports GroenLinks. We can only see that the effects may not work out quite as we had hoped. It's actually used to keep wages artificially low. The trade unions are also very critical of this. GroenLinks finds this undesirable. I wonder if the Minister thinks this is undesirable. Would it perhaps be a solution to impose some more conditions on LIV so that it can no longer be abused? I would like to make two suggestions to the Minister and I am very curious to see what he thinks about that. The first is: is it perhaps an idea to grant LIV only on fixed contracts? The second is: is it not also a better idea to do this for up to two years? 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna get people stuck in a low pay grade. Is the Minister willing to look into this? I sincerely hope that it is, because it would be a shame to throw away the baby with the bath water. Then there's the control part. That is also very important for my party, GroenLinks. It is important for workers to be able to defend their own rights, especially if they suspect that this is being violated. Unfortunately, the sham structures on the current labour market do so regularly. One of the ways to counter that is to sue an employer. This can now only be done by an individual employee. You just see in practice that's problematic. It hardly happens either, because employees are afraid that they may be fired or because they face all kinds of legal procedures that they are not at home in at all. There even seems to be international blacklists of workers who have spoken out and who are said not to accept them. In our view, that is really absurd and totally undesirable. How does the Minister feel about that? And does he see opportunities to do something about this in the framework of the Fake Constructions Act? Would it help, for example, if trade unions were given the opportunity to sue on behalf of someone or on behalf of a group? I'm really looking forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. This is about a group that GroenLinks is really worried about, also with a view to the future. That's the group of working carers. We are now talking about one in five employees. There are a lot of them. We all know that this group is going to get even bigger in the coming years. This has to do with an ageing population, but it also has to do with the huge cuts in the labour market, in the care sector. Working carers are having a very hard time. They combine a busy job with care for a close friend, so unfortunately they often come too little to themselves. That does not rhyme well with the relaxed society that we as GroenLinks stand for. Fortunately, our social security system has come up with something for this over the last 100 years, namely care leave. The problem is that care leave is barely used. Of short-term care leave, only 5% of the carers and long-term unpaid but 1% of the people use it. That's a real shame. When I became a Member of Parliament, about five months ago, it was said: on your portfolio we once filed these own-initiative laws in the past. There was an initiative law of about ten years old, tabled by colleagues Van Gent and Sap, illustrious people in the GroenLinks history, who said: we should actually do it much better. I thought, "Well, funny, let's dust off that law and get to work on it." But I would like to take a step forward today and tomorrow, together with Mr Van Weyenberg of D66. That is a question I am asking the Minister: is he prepared to see how it really is that so little is being used and to come up with a proposal to improve it? I'm curious to hear the answer. I see that I have had enough time left for the most important part of the day, namely the maiden speech by my colleague, Wim-Jan Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u214	Thank you. Mr Heerma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u215	Sorry, Mr President, I am a bit of a regret, because I would like to ask a question about Mr Smeulder's last point. That touches on the Law's approach to bogus constructions. That is a law which has been broadly supported here in the previous period. Our two groups have also supported it. The civil law chain appeal was a way to deal with companies that are underpaid. The risk of a procedure may also have a cleansing effect. I think the last question is: is it possible for trade unions to play a greater role? It is interesting and I am also curious to hear the answer. But Mr Smeulders talked about blacklists that would go around internationally. I don't know that message. Would Mr Smeulders please explain what blacklists are involved? Can he give us some examples? It's pretty worrying what he's bringing up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u216	Agreed. I suggest I get back to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u217	Good. Thank you. Now we go to Mr Renkema, who is making his maiden speech. As usual in this house, during the maiden speech is not interrupted. I can tell you, many rulers are jealous of that. Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u218	Thank you, Mr President. It is a great honour for me today to express my maiden speech in the Social Affairs and Employment budget, because in this budget, politics is expressing itself on the Dutch labour market, on the Dutch social services and, in fact, on the way in which our society operates. What kind of society do we have at the moment? What kind of society are we aiming for? For that reason, let me start with a little philosophical reflection. The Roman god Janus is known as the two-faced god. Our performance society also has such a sad face; it shows two faces. On the one hand, you have the modernisation of social relations. On the other hand, you have competition and an increase in anxiety, disease and loss. Again a while ago, in 2004, the book Status Fear of the British philosopher Alain de Botton appeared. He uses that term for the agonizing thought that people can have because they may not be able to meet the demands and expectations our society places on them. People, he says, worry about their position on the social ladder and experience the fear that they may fall off at any moment. Am I successful? Am I productive enough? Who are my competitors? Am I even being seen? Can I also participate in our society if I'm not perfect, if I have a disability or if I'm chronically ill? Mr. Chairman. From left to right over the past decades we have embraced the idea of meritocracy; the ideal that doesn't matter your origins, but your qualities and your achievements and thus determine your social position. I think it has been a very big step forward in relation to the hierarchical class society. That society emphasized inequality based on birth. There a dime never became a quarter. The education system has been able to achieve social mobility and emancipation in recent decades. That's how my grandfather was carpenter, my father went to grow school and I went to college. But now, after three or four generations, our performance society also shows its other face. Because that thought, that idea of a meritocracy, has led to a sharp, inconspicuous competition between people. After all, this thinking makes us believe that everyone in life gets what he or she deserves. Those who fail now only owe it to themselves. The winner takes it all. And the number of winners is limited. Success has become the norm in our performance society. Young people experience study pressure, competition, choice stress, but show nice pictures of their successes on Instagram. In his 2012 book Identity, the Belgian psychologist Verhaeghe describes the effects of what he calls "three decades of neoliberalism" on our identity. He says: "Mental disorders are not diseases, but expressions in the individual of broader social problems." One in seven working Dutch people gets a burn-out, partly because of the stress of too much work combined with having to meet high expectations. My colleague said: GroenLinks stands for a relaxed society. We want everyone who wants it to be able to work well and well. Burn-out is then the symptom of an overstretched performance society. This not only helps to inform employees about how to deal with stress; more is needed for this. In 2014, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau stated that very little research has been done on the effects of social developments on burn-out. The SCP also very much wants empirical research on this. We think that's a very good idea. What developments in our society have made us all so overworked? What policy lessons can we draw from that? What else is there to do? My question to the Secretary of State is: does she agree with me that we should dive deeper into the problems of social developments and burn-out? Mr. Chairman. A burnout can also occur because someone doesn't feel safe. Lately, we've been hearing more and more noises about unwanted behavior in the workplace. On average, about half a million people are victims of bullying in the workplace every year. TNO calculates that more than 130,000 Dutch people per year face sexual cross-border behavior. So they are the victims of colleagues and executives. We find that unacceptable. We believe that this should be combated. One of the ways to create more security is to appoint a trusted person. We believe that every work organisation should have such a trusted person. He or she can provide support, but also has an important preventive function. As far as we are concerned, a legal obligation to do so is very important. I know how the Secretary of State feels about this, and I therefore intend to introduce an initiative law of my own in order to achieve such a legal obligation. Given the broad support that this has in society, I also expect broad support in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The mantra of our society is work. That's not bad. Work provides income, but also meaning and social contacts. But my group also wonders whether the right instruments have been used in recent years to guide people towards work and to keep them at work. A lot of rules have been devised. The Secretary of State is now launching a broad offensive to help people with disabilities to get to work. It is to be commended that one of its aims is to make it easier for everyone: for employers and employees. We see this clearly in her new approach. We share the urgency to make real progress on this right now. I'd like to give the Secretary of State two suggestions. First of all... There are now all kinds of different regimes, tools and rules to help someone move towards a job. There's the Wajong in all kinds of variants. There are several target groups and several registers. I am truly convinced that if we simplify the system, we must also go to one instrument to compensate someone's reduced wage value. It is not new: for my group that is the instrument of wage costs subsidy. A new study has recently been published which shows that employers also prefer this instrument to wage dispensation. In my view, it fits perfectly with the Secretary of State's ambitions to simplify labour costs subsidies and ensure harmonisation in order to also look at their possible deployment in the Wajong. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this seriously and to assess its financial consequences? My second point concerns the broad offensive. We are concerned about the group of young people from practical education and secondary special education. Young people with disabilities need very good guidance in order to be able to move from school to their first job. From the Wajong in the past there were very good networks between UWV, schools and employers, but with the introduction of the Participation Act, this group seems to be increasingly falling between ship and ship and coming home. I welcome the vote by Mr Segers of the Christian Union to make more money available to this group. But that was occasional money, while this group enters the labour market every year. They need structural attention. It is precisely in the ages between 18 and 27 that the question is: can I find my own place in this complicated society or can I not? How is the Secretary of State going to get these networks back to work? Is it prepared to give priority to additional resources for labour market regions to this group? Mr. Chairman. The Social Affairs and Employment budget is also specifically concerned with income disparities, poverty and debt. My group is disappointed by the progress made on the debt issue, especially since the government is too often a co-causer of debt and does not often help enough to solve this problem. It cannot be explained that legislation that was adopted a long time ago and which many people are waiting for is not being implemented. If the unwound foot is not properly executed, people will end up in the street. We just have to prevent that at all times. There is no ICT argument against that. I have a feeling this will take a lot more perseverance. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if she's willing to use that power. The same applies to the herd register. Two years ago, there was an intention to connect to it, but it has not yet happened. Finally, it also applies to the state-wide collection. I myself believe that these three issues are not given sufficient priority by the services and agencies concerned and would like to call on the Secretary of State as a coordinating director on this debt issue to ensure that it does. I'd like a reaction to that. Finally, assistance. Relief recipients deserve trust. Unfortunately, many parties in this Chamber have also been able to hear it this morning, as well as the cabinet, looking at assistance with glasses of consideration, mistrust and enforcement. Municipals lay down, so pale, even finger cans. Social detectives count toothbrushes and use hidden cameras. Let us be very clear: GroenLinks also thinks that you should prevent abuse. But the Participation Act doesn't ask cops. Research shows that it is precisely involved, non-distance policy that brings people to participation. An inclusive labour market and an inclusive society start with real confidence. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the state of play of the experiments in the Participation Act. Then I come to a conclusion; I see that I have 20 seconds left. I hope to be able to use my spokespersonship in the near future for all those who do not belong to the successful citizens in our performance society and who see the other side of the blunderhead. I look forward to working closely with all the Members of this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u219	Thank you. Seeing it that way, I think it's gonna work. Congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u221	I have the honour to be the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-5.u222	I shall suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. because I know that the family has come all the way from Drenthe and Zeeland to be present on this occasion. So welcome!
