ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Middendorp, who will put questions on behalf of the VVD to the Secretary of State for the Interior, whom I have not yet seen. We'll wait for him for a second. Secretary of State is here, welcome. Mr Middendorp has the floor for his questions on the safety of the Turf market towers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Officials do such important work for our country. A lot of people are busy with the public business all day long. It is important that these officials feel comfortable at work and feel safe at work. Last March we were shocked by the reports about floors at the Ministry of Justice and Security and BZK on which you could not stand with groups of more than eight. The VVD also asked questions about this. In his reply, the Secretary of State indicated that the floors were safe for existing use, that the National Real Estate Company was working and that further research would be carried out. Last week we were therefore shocked by the new reports about unsafe floors, TNO's second opinion on the building and especially TNO's conclusion that the ministries were more unsafe than expected. We would like to ask the Secretary of State the following questions. Are all the people who are working today at the Turf Market safe? Do you share TNO's conclusion, Secretary of State, that there is a risk to human life and that the economic consequences are unacceptable? What has been done after the TNO report and is there any reason to do more now? Finally, why was the TNO report not sent to the Chamber after it came out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Middendorp for the questions he has asked. It is a subject of great importance. We do not want to run any risk when it comes to the security of our officials. Nor do we want to run any risk for people who work in buildings equipped with these floors. That is precisely why, after the collapse of the parking garage in May 2017, the Minister of the Interior issued a letter in which she wrote that there should be research into all buildings and constructions where these wide-plate floors were used. This also applies, but not only to the buildings of the government. That is why the National Real Estate Company was commissioned by the Minister of the Interior to find out. Those floors have been in use since 1999. The incident in Eindhoven was the first major incident that revealed that problems may arise. In the end, the Chamber was informed about this. The Minister also wrote a letter about it. Mr Middendorp rightly says that he has asked questions about this before. In early 2018 we investigated the consequences for the two buildings of Justice and Security and Home Affairs at the Turfmarkt in The Hague; a building where about 4,000 officials work. It's a pretty big government building. A review of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf also went over that. You have also been informed of this. At the request of the works council we take the signals from the officials who work there very seriously we have had a second opinion done. It was carried out by TNO. After that initial examination, all the spaces were immediately out of use where additional risk might be possible. So we did not want to run any risk in this area in the roadmap we have gone through. This means, in fact, that there are deposits in a number of places in the construction and that civil servants are not allowed to do their work there for the time being. The building is a bit more dimensioned than those 4,000 officials, so that doesn't immediately cause a problem. The reason you're standing here is actually the article from Home Office that was followed up by a number of other media. It states that the towers at the Turf market would be unsafe. This post was cancelled by TNO the next day. I would like to emphasise that. This message is therefore incorrect on the basis of the reporting. TNO has explained, I quote: "The article in question misreads the conclusions of the RIP investigation and has been prepared without TNO's knowledge. As explained at the staff meeting of 13 September 2018, TNO considers that the measures now taken make it safe to use the Turfmarkt 147 building." This confirms that the roadmap that we have gone through, which was designed not to take any risks, has been properly implemented. At the moment, we are investigating the areas that have been abandoned, how they can be strengthened so that, in the end, the officials there can do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	TNO's quote is good to hear, because a question was indeed whether the officials there are now safe. Thank you to the Secretary of State for that. But closing the story about areas doesn't really sound like a very structural solution. Does the Secretary of State share that view? What is going to happen now to ensure that people can work in the building without the need to close down areas, as in March or a few weeks ago? The TNO report was not sent to the Chamber. What's the reason for that? In the first round of questions, the Chamber asked the Secretary of State to share the results of the inquiries with the Chamber. I would now like to ask that question again. If there are new insights now, I would ask the Secretary of State to share them with the Chamber. Finally, Madam President. The building on the Turfmarkt was opened in 2013. How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that a government building that was opened five years ago is now so cramped, to put it this way, that we are standing here to talk about it? What is he going to do to learn from this with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	It will be clear that the measures we have taken are intended to implement that principle of first and foremost safety. That means we don't want to take any chances. I would like to stay far away from crooked floors............................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's why parts are sealed off. The question of what is going to happen now is entirely justified. Research is currently under way. That is also the reason why the TNO investigation has not yet been sent to your Chamber. There are several studies currently under way, which look at the measures at which costs are best taken to resolve that temporary situation. It is not the case that we have the ambition to keep a number of parts of the building permanently out of use. The building is too important for that. It is also too important for civil servants to be able to do their job there. I would like to say that we are doing everything we can to ensure that safety is guaranteed. I work there every day and I really wouldn't go into the building if I had an unsafe feeling about it. We've looked very closely at that. We have taken the most stringent safety measures from all the reports, the three reports that have been produced. So we didn't shop in a negative way, but we took the most stringent safety measures: safety first. That is why this situation is now emerging. If you're asking me when that can be solved, I can't say. We are doing our best to do this as soon as possible, but here too, I think it is very important that it is done in a good way and not only quickly. Then TNO's report. I have nothing to hide, so that report is completely public as far as I am concerned. The only thing I haven't done is send a partial report to the Chamber every time or every week. If the Chamber so wishes, you can, but that's why you haven't received the report yet. The officials who live in that building were also able to take note of the report. We are completely transparent in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	In any case, the VVD Group wishes to do so. That was also question 11 in the first round of questions in March, so please. The same applies to the new investigations. Having said that, I have a question. I'm curious when the Secretary of State is going to send a plan to the Chamber for how he's going to solve this structuralally. Because closing down departments, taking no risk: support. The only question is, how are we gonna solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have said before that this is a very fair question, but of a construction that has been in use since 1999 after which this property was delivered in 2013 and which in 2017 causes problems in Eindhoven, you cannot say that it causes problems everywhere. We want to rule everything out, so we're gonna look very carefully at how we can handle this. As soon as I have more clarity, I will inform the Chamber. I hope and expect it to be early next year. There are now a number of parties studying how to do that best. That's not so easy with an existing building. It's easier with new buildings. You'll need to know the cause before you can come up with plans to fix this. But it is clear that this is a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	I missed the answer to the question of whether there is going to be a retrospective study. That building was opened five years ago. I think it's a little early to talk about this, actually. We want to rule out all the risks. I wonder if the Secretary of State will also send a lesson from the situation to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Of course. Mr Middendorp also knows me as someone who wants to learn from the actual mistakes that have been made in the past. Again, this construction has been applied on a very large scale, even outside the government. But precisely because this incident took place in Eindhoven, and could potentially have very serious consequences, we must rule out everything here. If I inform you about this, I will also see how this can be prevented in the future, if we have the information we need to do so at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp. Thanks to the Secretary of State, too.
