ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. We are in need of first-term response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u2	I would ask the Minister to begin her term. There are 13 Members who have subscribed to this debate. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had to wait for it, but at last we can enter into the debate on the budget of agriculture, the first budget of the new department. I may seem a little emotional. Sometimes I am of your contributions, but for the record: it is mainly because I have a bad cold, so sometimes I have to snout some noses and stuff. I hope that does not disturb the order of the debate. Mr. Chairman. A first real budget of the new department. When I was preparing it in the run-up to this debate, I zoomed out a little bit: what has actually happened in recent years? That's an incredible amount. We have had many debates with each other, including on difficult dossiers: pulse, manure, the restoration of pig farming, food safety, declining biodiversity, drought, African swine fever. All themes that have an impact on society, impact on the people who produce our food, impact on those who consume our food, we all are. When I thought of that, I remembered what is said in Psalm 8: that the creation is entrusted to us, that the cattle, the animals in the field, the birds in the air, the fish in the sea are entrusted to us. I think that is a very good word, because it also bears some responsibility. So it's not "it's there and we can do whatever we want" but we have a responsibility in that. We can enjoy that, too. We are also given the opportunity to live on this and to enjoy nature around us, but we also have to deal with it in a responsible way. As far as I am concerned, that is also the debate we are having tonight: what choices do you always make? That is also, if I just stay close to myself, perhaps the reason why I thought: we should also make choices in the vision we are developing. Over the past few months, I have said it to you many times, and I have also spoken a great deal with people who produce our food, with nature organisations, with people who think about our food, farmers, fishermen, gardeners. That was also to ask: what moves you, what drives you? Where the contrasts between all the worlds seem huge here, I noticed and found in all those conversations that, if you ask very deeply about the motives of people, who are not so far apart at all. Because everyone wants to produce food with respect for the environment, with respect for animals, with respect for nature. But many people also say: we feel that we are stuck, that sometimes we do not have the room for movement that we would like to make precisely in order to make the choices. In that responsibility, I believe that we, as politicians, should also go to those people and come to say: but what do you need to get that space? That was the reason why I started the whole process around the vision. The vision was presented in September and is called "valued and connected." Those are also two words which, as far as I am concerned, have a deeper layer. Valuable: the food we take to ourselves has value. That gives us life sometimes I say, maybe a little grotesque. If we don't have food, we can't live either. There's a lot of value in that. But also connected: not just stand against each other and say what the other should do better, but look together for the direction we should take with our agriculture. What I also outlined in the introduction to the vision is that the system in which our production has been designed for a long time has run against borders and that we are now facing other issues that we must also give other answers to. I know there was an interruption of one of the members, in the sense of "how do you look back on production as we have always done; was it not good?" I think at that time it provided an answer to the choices that were there at the time, to the questions that were there at the time. Questions about "do we have enough opportunities to feed our mouths?" That's a big question at a time, after the Second World War, we almost forgot where that question was very essential. The fact that we have almost forgotten that already says a lot about where we stand. But we must not deny that we now have other choices to make. Can we still produce in balance with our environment? How do we deal with the climate issues that exist? But also, for example, how do we ensure that farmers keep an income that they can produce? Things like globalisation, the easier going of food around the world, putting pressure on our own farmers, our own producers, force us to put these kinds of questions at the centre. That's what I've been trying to do in this vision. My commitment is well known. You talked about it, too. The commitment is to close resource and resource cycles at the lowest possible level by 2030. As far as I am concerned, we should also be the frontrunner in this circular agriculture. It is no longer a question of producing as much as possible at the lowest possible cost, but of dealing with our raw materials as efficiently as possible in order to deal with the various issues of production but also about climate and the efficient use of our raw materials, thus providing a perspective for everyone working in the sector. We must not forget the issues of the environment and nature. I have also indicated, and I really think, that this is a movement that is not just with me or with you as a chamber. It's not just about politics. This change to circular agriculture is a social movement that everyone participates in. Farmers, industry, commerce and consumers Everyone has a role to play in this. The broad movement needs that direction. That's what I'm offering. I've heard questions about that, too. Members asked yesterday: what is your role as a whole? I'm a director here, but a director doesn't just do it, I want to put that at the heart of things. It indicates where we're going. That's what I do with everything I have in me. I will look at the issues that I have to deal with about legislation and regulation, perhaps about proposals with subsidies or other economic incentives, for example throughout the CAP debate. As far as I am concerned, I will convey this from Beetsterzwaag to Brussels and from Lochem to London. But in the first instance, it is my responsibility to ensure that parties go with us and that we feel the motivation to make the transition to circular agriculture. There are a number of areas where we need to do this in particular; some of your Members have already been mentioned. What's in it? I can share the lines. I would like to mention a number of things: combating food waste, restoring biodiversity, farmers' incomes, developing the soil strategy, the whole process of manure, opening up a young farmer's fund. These are all examples that fit in with the story of circular agriculture. In the vision, I have also indicated that we are now fully engaged in the elaboration and that we want to agree with social parties in mid-2019 on concrete results that will realise the vision and what the contribution of these parties will be. There's pressure on the kettle. That is also important, because we have no time to waste. The vision sets a course and describes the direction to be taken by 2030. In order to determine whether the vision actually has the intended impact, it needs to be implemented. I see, for myself and for our ministry, the task of ensuring that the objectives and results are defined in concrete terms, that choices are made and that progress is monitored properly. I repeat Mr Futselaar, who asked whether that was the case. Yes. I would like to use the period until the summer of 2019 to specifically name those concrete, measurable results. We are going to start the process in two weeks, on 14 November, which should lead to those agreements. We then meet with people from agriculture and horticulture, the food chain, nature and environmental organisations, banks and knowledge institutions. We will then discuss what matters we really need to concrete out. I also expect constructive discussions on this, because I have generally heard positive reactions to the vision. But that doesn't mean that until the middle of next year we're just working on paper in that process. During the renovation, the shop is open. We are still working on that and we are already working hard on that. It is important that we start implementing the vision now. That's possible, because we don't start at zero. In order to give your Chamber a good overview of the steps we are going to take, I will inform her this month about what the whole process will look like next year. In this way you can follow the steps we are taking and what concrete steps will be taken. That also gives me the opportunity to include what we are discussing in the letter. If there are certain issues that need to be taken into account, this debate can also be addressed. This can then also possibly be given a place in the whole process. So you will receive a letter this month in which we will describe in concrete terms what we want to have achieved at any time, so that you can follow it and we can talk about it periodically. Because let me make one thing clear: that vision is not just mine or the Ministry. As far as I am concerned, it is a continuous process, on which we, as Chambers, of course, also have the conversation and of which we all own, so that we can make sure that what we agree with each other is also carried out. It also offers you the opportunity to say "this is really not going well at all, we need to find some of this" or "this can be done faster." I'll give you that letter of formal notice. This is reflected in today's debate. I think that this document also gives us a very clear overview of what is going to happen. There are also a number of issues which, of course, are important in the context of the elaboration of the vision. Mrs Lodders already asked me how, in the context of the LNV vision, I am going to map the obstructive legislation and regulations. Mr De Groot also asked about the implementation of his widely adopted motion on obstructive legislation. He also mentioned, for example, the separate categories of manure for worms and insects. He has also indicated that he thinks it is important to provide legal experimental space. He's also asking me how I'm going to commit to that. The legislative and regulatory barriers to circular agriculture have been identified under the biomass and food component of the circular economy. I can and I will send it to the Chamber with the letter on the elaboration of the process around the LNV vision, which I have just promised. I'll send you that list with that letter. The inventory of obstructive legislation in the field of circular agriculture has also provided a multitude of insights, for example on regulation regarding the degradation of residual flows, their use in animal feed, manure legislation. In that letter, I will also go into the further implementation of this type of matter in detail. With the Space programme in Rules for Green Growth, we aim to identify regulatory bottlenecks and, if possible, to resolve them immediately. Experience has shown that it is often possible to take steps without having to change the rules. If there are obstructive rules, it will be considered how the adaptation of the rules in question can be achieved, bearing in mind, of course, that this does not have any other effects that we do not want. We think and see what the possibilities are. In general, it is a very far-reaching step to create an opportunity to deviate from the law as an experiment, without really being specifically addressed which problems we solve. That would also mean that I would be given a great deal of space to set aside legislation and regulations at the moments when it has been democratically established. If you want to give me so much space, I have a very nice life, because then I don't have to worry about what this Chamber thinks anymore, but I can imagine that these are the debates that we are going to have with each other. So we need to look very specifically at where the experimental space is needed and where it can be provided. That is also possible, because in a lot of legislation there is already specific scope for experiments, or I already have the power to impose or not to impose certain rules or something like that on a temporary basis. There is no need now to create a generic provision that I need experimental space, because we already have a lot of space. But it is also a matter of the following. I am thinking, for example, of the Council of State, which is going to like this if I wanted to use such a large space. The Council of State then says: where has the primacy of politics gone? I think we can solve this very pragmatically. Where that's not the case, we need to see what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u4	With all due respect, the Minister is almost making a caricature of such an experimental law. The Minister has also rightly indicated that she will continue to discuss with the Chamber the steps she will take. It is precisely the intention that the Minister should use all of her discretionary powers to ensure that circular agriculture is flown. All the legislation that we have so far is to a large extent clinging to the fact that it comes from the time, which the minister described so beautifully, from after the war. There will also have to be a lot of discretionary powers. Yes, that's part of the responsibility, but me and D66 have every confidence in the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u5	It's almost special when you say as a minister: please don't give me that much space. Most of the time it is the other way round and it is the Chamber that says: limit it. I understand Mr De Groot's point. Only at a time when laws and regulations are tighter than they are today, we need to adapt them so that everyone knows what the new framework is. I just indicated how I intend to organise that process. In the letter, I give an overview of the tightening laws and regulations and indicate the steps we are going to take. I'll also describe where we're going. I already have options to use discretion. In some laws, there's also all this experimental space. It's just that you have to address it very well. I get that. Everyone in this country should also be able to assume that the law is equal for everyone. If I'm going to use my discretionary powers so generically, it's just a question of whether it is. There must be some legal certainty for people. If I wanted, so to speak, an experimental law, I suspect that the Council of State would give exactly the same answer. Then where is the legal certainty that you, as a legislator, have to offer? I am trying to find some sort of pragmatic solution, and I think that there is one for the question put by Mr De Groot, without the need for a whole generic experimental law. Because then I think we should just look at how we're going to change the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u6	I understand very well that the Minister says that Mr De Groot's question is rather difficult, but I also appreciate that question. I have been with this for a number of years now and as a government in the field of agriculture we are not very good at ensuring that there is enough room for innovation, so very often we are behind the facts. If there is one slow process, then it is the process of adapting legislation. Mr De Groot made that feeling very clear yesterday, including with regard to the Minister's attitude. I think that we should pay a great deal of attention to this in the next six months. How are we going to ensure that these innovations and flexibility can be used much faster? This applies not only to our national legislation, but also to the legislation and regulations in Brussels. I would like to call for this and then close this interruption, President-in-Office of the Council, in order to think much more clearly in advance about where we need that space, and to bring it into legislation, not just here but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u7	I just indicated that we have room in certain agricultural laws. I see the impatience with Mrs Lodders, and I share it. When there are innovations, it sometimes takes a very long time to go through that process. That is exactly the inventory that we have partly made and which we may need to make even more. Last Monday I was talking to all kinds of start-ups in the field of agriculture and they also indicated that sometimes it takes years before it is clear or something can happen. Sometimes you don't know if you can do anything until you do it. The risk is that you invest a lot and then it's concluded that you can't. Then you have a problem. That's the barrel we hang in sometimes. My ambition is to see what you can do to speed up those kinds of processes. I cannot promise that I will realize it very quickly everywhere, because sometimes, as Mrs Lodder said, things are also at European level. Then I or the national parliament do not have the power to break through. I agree with the emphasis on this, because I am also looking for ways of avoiding such innovations. Once again, I would like to do so in a framework in which legal certainty is also guaranteed. That's the balance we need to find with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u8	Let me say first of all that I am impressed by the Minister's introduction. I am convinced that she has the genuine will to make a system leap, to free the sector from the corset he is in and to simultaneously achieve a number of values. On the other hand, I am also concerned about what is happening here, because the first interruptions are already about laws; an almost instrumental approach. I think it is important that all stakeholders or all parties should have the willingness to change, to commit themselves to goals and sometimes to go through pain limits or to look beyond their borders. That's what I'm worried about. I have made the comparison with the climate agreement, because that is where it happened. A clear standard has been set by the government. Parties have committed themselves to this, in a very difficult process. How is the Minister going to ensure that parties commit themselves in this process that they are actually changing? How is she going to organise this in such a way that this agricultural vision really leads to a system jump?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u9	I think I have just tried to outline how we are going along that path. I agree with Mr Moorlag that it is more than just changing a few laws and rules. For years, we have been thinking very carefully about the question of how we shape our agriculture, and we must also look for new answers to new questions. This must be done in many areas, such as education, which is part of it. I see that things are already happening in this process. I have had quite a lot of discussions over the last few weeks with all kinds of parties about the significance of circular agriculture: what does that mean for my sector, what does that mean for my business, how can I contribute to it? There's a lot of energy coming out, too, I see. I have also indicated that we are now taking the path with all these social parties to reach agreements and concrete results and to determine who is going to do what. I know that Mr Moorlag does indeed often say the word 'agricultural agreement'. On the one hand, I think that is almost too big, but on the other hand I think it is too limited, because in doing so you commit yourself by a number of agreements with which everything has to be done. I think that the further development and reflection of circular agriculture is a process that we go through with each other all the time. But we are going to make agreements with the parties. That is what the ambition is aimed at. That's what we're going to do, even before the summer of 2019, but in the meantime we're just constantly picking up everything we can already pick up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u10	A follow-up question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u11	The Minister has spoken with many parties, but is that commitment sufficiently anchored to those goals and that willingness to change? That's where I care. The Minister also says it: it is almost a task. Mansholt made such a change at the time. At the end of this period, I would like to see the Minister get the stature of such a man as Mansholt. The Minister is laughing, but I mean that sincerely. I believe that the whole of agriculture, nature and biodiversity are crying out for this system to take a leap. My concern is that anchoring anyway. Is it sufficiently secure that everyone will be able to jump through the hoop at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u12	That is why we have now entered into that process. By the way, Mansholt didn't take one year. He's been doing all this for years. That already shows that this is not something we can all achieve at once. This is a change that is going on, which will always raise new questions and which will perhaps give new answers again and again. In doing so, we have set the target: we need to move towards circular agriculture by 2030. As far as I am concerned, this is a continuous process in which we set out all kinds of objectives in the interim, which is what we are going to do with each other and where we know which way to go. Is that what everybody's gonna go along with? I think there will also be people for whom that will be quite complicated because they are working in a way that no longer fits that new vision. Then the choice is: are you coming or are you quitting? The discussions we are going to have with each other are going to be rather intense. But I think that I do feel that it is widely believed in society and, fortunately, widely in the Chamber that this is a direction that offers a perspective and that we should also go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u13	It is very good that Mr De Groot has brought this debate on the experimental space to this debate. I've been a Member of Parliament for six years. In the past period I have only experienced once that the experimental space was really wanted and that it has succeeded. For the rest, I don't have any concrete examples that I'm excited about. That is why I would like to put a specific case to the Minister to see how things might end. For example, we recently received the request for phosphate rights to be released. What you see then is that Brussels says at some point that it is not allowed. Yes, we're also going to ask: is that allowed, Brussels? I'll quote this case, but it can also apply to other parts. Is the Minister prepared to say to Brussels: that is how we are going to do it and we will hear it when we go through the common regulations or evade them? Or whatever you can come up with? Is the Minister prepared to deal with it in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u14	The temptation is, of course, to apply it to this particular case. I do, just... Let me paint it this way. It is true that I will also have to discuss some elements with Brussels, because certain laws and regulations also have to be adopted by Brussels or because they come from Brussels. And sometimes I can say very coolly that I do not listen to that and go my own way, but I do have more things to do with Brussels. In this particular case, let me just mention the derogation. I can say very coolly: I am going to do my own thing, and I'll hear from you when you start an intergroup procedure, so to speak. That is possible, but I also know that Brussels will not say to me in other dossiers, for example in the discussions on pulse fishing or the derogation: fantastic, we are going to think about how you are going to do all that. So I'm gonna have to do that with wisdom. In addition, it is my duty, and I do so in those cases, to go to Brussels myself to explain what the situation is and why I think it can be done. Do I always get right? No. You think I'm gonna have to act on that? Yes. That is the constant discussion we are in. So it is not that we can regulate everything by means of a single national button, but I can promise my commitment: I will do everything I can to do, wherever I think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u15	A follow-up question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u16	I think the Minister is sending the right answer in the direction of the Chamber. But that also equals how stubborn this discussion is going to be. So the illusion that we will be able to get experimental space everywhere, we must not leave it as a chamber. But I think we can all show a little more courage. I understand that the Minister simply needs the political support of a majority of the Chamber for this. Because if it turns out that things are not going well in one way or another, the minister or one of her successors should not be held equally responsible for this. So I think we still need to pursue that discussion in the Chamber. But I'm going to make a call to the Minister through you, Mr. President. Grab a concrete case. Just show the nerve to do it: "We're gonna do it like this. And if you can't, we'll find out."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u17	Within the sometimes complex playing field as I have just outlined, I think that if we agree that something is a desired direction, we need to look at how we can do it within the existing laws and regulations. If it isn't, we need to use the experimental space that there is. And if that doesn't work, we have to change the laws and regulations. That is the instruments we have. And that is also the way I would like to apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u18	This subject has been going on for a while. We also had the discussion in a wide range of general consultations on how the Netherlands is going to act in these negotiations with Brussels. I am pleased with the sound of the CDA, which finally says: let's show some courage. The PVV has been saying that for years, so support for that. But I'd like to go a little further. Look at what other countries are doing. How can you successfully get your way in Brussels? Take the Germans with the shuffle diesels: for years we have been able to buy those shuffle diesels, and now they are not performing at all. We also see it with the finances. The French, the Italians and the Greeks: no one keeps to it, and they all get away with it. So let's not be so scared. We're the biggest net contributor. If the Netherlands says it does not pay, Brussels has a problem. And we have to play that position hard and hard, so don't be so good. Of course, I support the nerve of the CDA, but I think it should go a little further: just put that fist on the table like Thatcher, as I once called it. That works. It's just powerplay in Brussels. We just have to stand up for our interests. So that's not just asking nicely if we can please handle the rules a little creatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u19	I have the impression that Mr Madlener knows exactly how I act in Brussels. That's good, because I don't think he's ever been to Brussels with me or with our officials. Let me put it this way. We are here almost every day in Brussels to ensure that we get Dutch interests to the fore. But it is not that the Netherlands is the only one who can only decide for a moment what is happening. That is a discussion we are having with the European Commission. We do this in many ways nicely, and sometimes less nicely, but we remain connected. That is where we will have to find the solutions. Mr Madlener pretends that we can only put our fist on the table and then get everything done. I know he's been walking around Brussels himself. I don't know what he realized at the time. Maybe he should send me a list of them, because I don't have the impression that just shouting loudly and banging fists on the table is the most effective way of getting things done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u20	A follow-up question from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u21	The opposite is, of course, true. I have indeed walked around Brussels for a number of years and I have seen that the Netherlands has always been the best boy in the class. You can see that in the fact that we are allowed to pay the most and always get the least refund. The Netherlands is always at the bottom when it comes to getting something done. Those are just the facts that speak for themselves. We see that other countries do not. I have already mentioned the French and the Italians, but the Germans have not been interested in European regulations for years either. They just did it and got away with it. Italy is now a test case. We'll see how that ends. This is not about manure legislation, but about very fundamental matters. Even that's what they get away with! Those dirty diesels that drive all over Europe: even that's what the Germans get away with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u23	We are talking about an administrative manure problem here. If we can't even get the fist on the table for that, of course we're not gonna get anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u24	I heard Mr Madlener say that this is a very fundamental issue and not a legislation on manure. This implies that manure legislation is not about very fundamental matters. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u25	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u26	No, Mr. Madlener, the Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u27	I think there are a lot of farmers who see it differently and experience it every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u28	That's, I suppose, an invitation to an answer from my side. That doesn't have to be an interruption, I suppose. But indeed, manure legislation in Brussels is not the main issue for which the whole of Europe is turning its head, of course! The Italian finances, that's big business, but the manure legislation in the Netherlands? Whether we produce a little more or less manure on the left or right, no one will be awake. But I think the Minister himself knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u29	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u30	I think the debate is taking a surprising turn. Because we are talking first of all about circular agriculture, about a huge change in agricultural practice. The interruptions of CDA and PVV colleagues are about the exemptions that Brussels should grant or the space that Brussels should give to the Netherlands to get things done. My question to the Minister is: does she think Brussels will find it a problem if we go more in harmony with nature in the Netherlands? Derogation is about a problem of the Netherlands, namely that we have too much manure. We want to solve this problem with circular agriculture. I find the suggestion that finding room in the rules is a solution for a new agriculture very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u31	I've just started the block on what's needed for circular agriculture. This was just the first topic, so there will soon be some other things to follow. I understand the questions in a moment. Some Members say: we have laws and regulations, which, for example, make innovations, Mrs Lodders spoke specifically about innovations, which could be very good in the context of circular agriculture. Then, of course, it is our job as a legislator to amend the law so that it can be done, but sometimes it is also possible to leave the possibility of looking at what is possible during that period. In some things there is that experiment space just or sometimes there are opportunities to offer space there. I'd like to see if that's helpful at the time. If it isn't, I just have to change the law. That seems obvious to me. That's how I understood these questions. Mr Geurts has said that this is not always easy, because it is also a point in Europe. I'm right about that. That's also the exciting thing about this story. In agriculture, however, you are always looking for what you can do at national level in relation to what is defined at European level. With the CAP, for example, I see a lot of opportunities, because that is where the Netherlands relies on much more national sovereignty and powers, for example, to use the money for those things that we regard as a priority. That's quite a discussion we're having with each other. We do not all agree on this in Europe either. But those are also opportunities that I can use to ensure that we are moving in that direction in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm incredibly curious about that. I agree with that too, because if it helps circular agriculture, it is of course very good, but experience has shown that the discussions in recent years have not been about this, but rather about looking up the boundaries when it comes to the use of pesticides, manure or nature which, according to Europe, has not been properly protected. I'd like to maintain that protection and not look up an experimental space in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u33	I believe that, in response to Mr De Groot's question on experimental space, I began to say that we need legal certainty. With regard to plant protection products, we have taken more steps in the last period than in a very long time together. Sometimes I would like to say to Mrs Bromet "count your injuries," in good Dutch, because things are really happening. Sometimes that is because there are certain movements coming from Europe and sometimes because we in the Netherlands are going to bring certain things into Europe. That will always be the interaction. We need to find our way in there. That's quite an exciting quest, but also a very challenging one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u34	I am going to try to reconnect the vision in Europe. One of the things that quite a lot of people in this room can be excited about is the step to use less fertilizer. At some point, you also run into European rules. There is now an interesting pilot in the Achterhoek. It's an exception, I say for the people who love it. There is a whole battle to be fought in Europe. The Minister says he sees opportunities in the CAP. The European fertilizer lobby is powerful, I'm just saying. Does it see the possibility of actually taking steps there when it comes to more traditional, manure-friendly rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u35	One of the ambitions I mentioned in the vision is that we need to look for ways to use less fertilizer and move more towards high-quality animal manure. This is included in our manure legislation, such as the Sixth Action Programme and that sort of thing. They can lead us to more fertilizer. That's what I find contradictory signals. These are matters that we must also discuss in Europe. Mr Futselaar has already pointed it out: we are looking for space where that can be done. We do indeed have a pilot in the Achterhoek for a fertilizer-free agriculture. These results can also help to show Europe the opportunities if we go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u36	I understand, but I'm trying to move on. Will the Netherlands compete with the fertilizer lobby in Europe? Can we be more distanced from this industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u37	The fertilizer lobby. I think we're already looking at what we can do ourselves. I have just given an example of this. But, of course, if we want to shape circular agriculture in this way, that also means something for manure legislation. I have just sent information to the Chamber on how we see it and how we go about it. We're involving all kinds of parties. It is a discussion that I have to discuss in Europe, but we have to deal with certain issues here in the Netherlands as well. Yeah, I'm gonna work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u38	The Animal Party is also very much in favour of stopping fertilizer, but we already have agriculture that does this: organic and biological-dynamic farmers do not work with fertilizers. What I fear is that I have been on the agricultural dossier for some time now, because it leads to a higher use of animal manure. Is the Minister prepared to say here that moving away from fertilizer does not mean that we are going to use more animal manure on land?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u39	I do not think it is at all about the discussion about more animal manure. It's about what the soil needs. That must be at the heart of this discussion. We are extracting substances from the soil and we need to replenish them so that the soil can grow back what we need. That's what's at the heart of it. That's circular farming. What do we get from the bottom and what do we add? In my opinion, Mrs Ouwehand should welcome a move in which we move away from a kind of manure produced by using an incredible amount of gas, while also having ambitions to reverse the Groningen gas, in a way that is quite natural.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u40	But we've been suggesting that for a while. The Party for Animals was the first to come up with motions to stop the use of fertilizers. We had calculated that it represents 6% of Dutch gas use. And we just can't do that to the Groningers. We can also go organic farmers, then we use neither fertilizer nor excessive animal manure. I'd really like the Minister to be a little sharper in the choices here. You can say: yes, so we go to circular agriculture. But does that still mean in her view: manure factories, manure treatment plants, manure fermentation plants? Where's the line? Agricultural waste can also be just vegetable waste. They're also fertilising agents. Yes, I want to go with her, but we need to make it clear how we define that cycle. No fertilizer, as far as we're concerned, and no fertilizer plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u41	That is exactly the discussion we are going to have over the coming period. What does all this mean for the business we have to do? We have just set up a process to think together about what the whole manure legislation should look like. Last year I indicated that I came to the Ministry and got a big spread in front of me with all the manure legislation on it. There were five laws running side by side and side by side, and I really thought, "How do I get out of here?" And if I don't get out, how does that farmer get out? I refer to simplification but also to making it clear that what the soil needs is central and that we are still in an imbalance in this respect. For example, certain parcels receive too little manure while others get too much. That precision fertilization becomes a very crucial part of this story. I think that's good for everyone. But that can sometimes also mean that certain parcels need more manure, because the soil needs it. That is why I think a discussion about more or less manure is too digital. The point is: what do you need to fertilize that soil properly and how can we balance it properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u42	Minister, you've gone into your vision and the experimental space. Could you tell me which blocks you're going to treat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u43	The vision was actually one point, but it is already a bit mixed up. I still have manure policy and phosphate as a block. I would also like to mention fisheries, food, animal welfare, NVWA, nature and a few other points. But this is the biggest block. We're gonna have to talk about this. I had arrived at education, knowledge and innovation. Some questions have been asked about that too. Mr De Groot pointed out that green education is important for circular agriculture. He also asks how I am going to ensure that this knowledge about circular agriculture is brought to a level. I have just indicated that investing in education is essential to continue to strengthen the innovative capacity of the sector, but also to put that circular agriculture into practice. To this end, green education actively cooperates with partners from regional businesses, civil society organisations and governments, especially in HBO centres of expertise and the MBO centres for innovative craftsmanship. Through the Green Pact I support the development of these practical centres of knowledge, so that the knowledge also works well in professional practice. I would also like to encourage further innovation in education along this line, with attention also to the themes I raised in the LNV vision. This includes, for example, further training of teachers. Mrs Lodders asks how I will involve research institutes in the knowledge questions in the context of the development of the LNV vision. At present, cooperation with knowledge institutions other than the WUR is possible through the PPS premium of the top sectors. For example, there is already cooperation with the Louis Bolk Institute and about 30 other knowledge institutions. It has been asked: does everything have to go to the WUR or can others participate? Others can therefore already report on this. I would add that the research requests and questions must be of sufficient quality to be met. That's a condition for doing this kind of research. This is thus already possible through the PPP premium of the top sectors. In addition, I work with the ministries of EZK, IenW and VWS on a mission-driven top sectors and innovation approach to agriculture, water and food. That's the name of the program. At the beginning of next year, the missions for the themes will be determined and sent to your Chamber. Circulation principles will be given a recognizable place, including from the following knowledge and innovation agendas of the top sectors. The focus is on knowledge development and application for innovations for farmers and gardeners. Connections are also possible with basic research through NWO and the institutions for applied research, such as the WUR and TNO, but also with the other parties. Those cooperating parties shall jointly determine which knowledge institutions they register for this purpose. Mr De Groot also asked about the independence of the advisers who entered the farmyard. He asked about the CAP's ability to support independent advisory services. As far as I am concerned, a distinction must be made between suppliers of food, for example, who also want to give advice, and business consultants in a strict sense. Business advice in the last sentence, as is also regulated by the CAP, is carried out in the Netherlands by private consultants. Then, of course, it is important that the knowledge about the cycle of these farmers, gardeners and fishermen is strengthened and accessible. I would like to look at a number of things for that. Firstly, I want to set up a kind of interactive platform where farmers, gardeners and other stakeholders can show good examples and share knowledge and experience with each other. I think Mr De Groot was talking about the clubhouse. Well, let's baptize this clubhouse and share the knowledge and the different ideas, insights and visions with each other. The point is that this is widely available. I think it is particularly important that primary producers themselves have sufficient knowledge. I want the online platform to be a place where these innovative initiatives can be brought to the fore and knowledge and experience can be exchanged. In this way, farmers really have a voice in the elaboration of the vision and can contribute to it themselves. Mr Bishop asked for this too. Furthermore, with the policy instruments available, I would like to make every effort to ensure that farmers can take steps in the right direction. For example, initiatives in the region should also be considered. Together with other governments, organisations and private parties, I want to make this innovation possible in those areas where it is necessary and possible. We have just said a few words about obstructive legislation. It is also important that I also give the advisers the information of the farmers so that they can make the switch to circular agriculture. That brings me to the point that I think Mr De Groot put quite centrally. I think Mr de Groot said that I do not want to go back to the Agricultural Information Service. Well, then I'll be looking a little bit for what he does want. Of course, you have private parties that give that advice. I've been thinking about how you could do that now. I have looked at how this happens in other areas, for example in the Environment Act. There you can see that certain advisors, who are private parties, form a kind of consortium in which they get to know each other and exchange knowledge with each other. This way they can determine with each other what the advice they are going to give. What are the issues that we can really put down if advice is sought? That's a direction I'd like to explore a little bit more. As an advisor, for example, you can say that I am a member of that consortium and we are given education or knowledge-sharing from a university or whatever. I would also like to see what we can do about this as a ministry and how we can share our insights, so that the advisers, who remain private, can have some kind of up-to-date knowledge and discuss with each other how they would apply it in practice, so to speak. Maybe that's a bit of the middle road we can look for together, because I'm not going back to the Agricultural Information Service either, I'm just saying honestly. But I do see a bit of Mr De Groot's search for how we can make it a bit more of a whole. If you as a farmer know "hey, my advisor is with that consortium," you have an advisor who has that up-to-date knowledge about circular agriculture and also discusses it with others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u44	I think that's a very good idea, that's how I respond. This is certainly worth developing further. I have one more question. What I think is also very important for farmers is that they have an open and accessible knowledge portal. I mentioned bionext.nl, which has a lot of knowledge about how you handle the soil and the manure. Would you like to include these platforms in your search, which we share? Can they play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u45	I do not know this particular network and I imagine there are more networks. I marked that digital portal. This is an accessible way for parties to share their views. In this way, I believe that we can bring together initiatives in this area, so that everyone can gain their knowledge and know-how.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u46	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point that sometimes there are dilemmas in the vision. I'm not going to deny that either, because there are also issues in there that I think: if you do a, what does that mean for b? I think Mrs Ouwehand just outlined the same thing. Mrs Bromet already did. Are with this vision all the dilemmas left the table? I wish it was true, but it's not. This whole policy field sometimes depends on dilemmas, but those are also dilemmas that I... Let me put it this way: I still live through these dilemmas, but I also sometimes have the idea that certain parties see it all around and have it all around in their heads. I think that's good. I can't, but I'm sure that'll tell you something about my limitations. I do not think it is always black and white and it is also the quest that we will always and forever keep in the field of agriculture. One of the questions asked, among others by Mr Futselaar, was what I think farmers are expected to take individual action, which could damage their international competitiveness. Mr Geurts asked me how I see the marketing channels and the international position of farmers. What I have seen over the past year is that the diversity in agriculture is very large. And that doesn't necessarily say whether something is right or wrong. It seems as if it is very clear, like: small is good and big is wrong. I see the attraction of the simplicity of such views, but you are sometimes surprised in life, I also say to Mr Madlener. He asked me how I could ensure that it was all small-scale farming. Small-scale isn't always by definition better. I have seen situations on a not so big farm that I thought: I would wish that animal welfare farm a stable and an environment where it is better in order. I saw that this was the case with large stables. In my view, therefore, we should not discuss whether it is a big mistake or a big mistake, but under whatever conditions and conditions we want that production to be shaped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u49	I am almost forced to respond to this, because it is wrongly stated here that I would have advocated for all small-scale businesses. I said: The Netherlands has a tradition of relatively small-scale companies when compared to the international playing field. We don't have farms with thousands of hectares. They are relatively small companies and with these relatively small companies the Netherlands has a very good market position. What I said was: be careful of family and family businesses. They are often small-scale, fit well in the landscape, we have always been able to compete with, be careful. So I want to counter a further scaling-up, and I asked you to do so. Would you like to check your policy on whether the scaling up will help or whether we will save the smaller family and family businesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u50	But then I'll come back to where I just started. You say that I do not want to do that at all, but I think you are now saying that by definition scaling up is not desirable. I say: I have seen examples of scaling up which I think... In my opinion, I have quoted the example twenty times: the company on which I presented my vision was a biological company, which speaks to some parties, super large, 400 animals, which is a megastal. To point out that there is not necessarily one model that you say with each other: this is right or that is wrong. I think you should talk to each other about the circumstances under which we want this type of business to function, so that certain families also have a good income. One means that a company is more small-scale, produces for the regional market or perhaps even for the local market and is very committed to it. The other time it is a company that is very advanced in the field of emissions and animal welfare, but produces for the international market. If we were to make a choice, I think we would really be failing Dutch agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr Madlener, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u52	Well, one question... It is now beginning to be a kind of conversation and that is interesting, because of course we are talking about fundamental choices. I have not advocated at all that there should be an increase in scale at all levels. Of course, it is also about the entrepreneur himself. If two companies merge or one is bought up, there's nothing wrong with that, per se. It is about what the Minister's policy is about. That's what I'm asking her. If, by definition, the Minister's policy leads to scaling up, as we are going to see in the reform of pig farmers, then we should not have that. So it's policy. It is not a question of companies not being able to merge or whether this is a large company or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u53	Then Mr Madlener does not have a good example, because with regard to the reform of the pig sector, animal rights are being removed. Mr Madlener knows that. So it's not like when one company stops, those rights go to another, which increases that. So at this point, I think, he just took the wrong example. Anyway, I'm kind of looking for what he's trying to say. I think he said first: can you check whether that does not lead to scaling up, because that is not desirable. But now he says it's not about that. So, well... I am trying to outline that sometimes the problems in agriculture are such that it is tempting to look at them from very simple solutions, whereas reality is often more uncomfortable, but sometimes more surprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u54	Are you sure, Mr. Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u55	Yes. I cannot, of course, let this go on my side, because the Minister is not trying to understand me now, and that is a pity. Pig farming is a good example. Rabobank has predicted that there will be 5% less pigs in the Netherlands, but 60% fewer entrepreneurs. Then you really talk about a policy-based scaling up, and I find that undesirable, because it is often the smaller companies that fall down first. It's also the smaller companies that you should protect. I put questions to the Minister very clearly in my first term. I will do that again now, so that the Minister understands. Are you prepared to test your policy against the criterion of whether the scaling-up will help?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u56	No, because I'm just pointing out that scaling up as such doesn't necessarily have to be wrong. Mr Madlener sketches a movement. He is now saying that the warm improvement in scale is going to help. But in this warm clean-up, pig rights are removed, so they can't go to another person. There is an autonomous process, a process within itself, namely that there are fewer farmers in the Netherlands. That's a development you've been seeing for a long time. This has to do with the fact that taking over such a company is a huge investment with quite a lot of risks. That is why the cabinet comes with, for example, a young farmer's fund, to ensure that those young farmers can still take those steps if they really want to. That's how you're gonna try to push it so it's possible. But in the whole digital or it leads to scaling up and whether that's right or wrong, I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u57	Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u58	I came forward because it concerns the restructuring of pig farming, but perhaps the Minister will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u59	Yeah, that'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u60	Then I'll keep my question until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u61	Yeah, that's the downside. When you start with a vision, you're right about everything. I'm just trying to finish my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u62	If I understood correctly, you're going to say something about manure policy and phosphate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u63	No. First of all, I'm going to go into a few dilemmas that have been on the table here. I think that is a valuable debate, Mr President. However, it is perhaps my personal view that that is precisely the debate we should be having. Then come the cubes, which are really a bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u64	Okay. I hope you won't put these dilemmas too wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u65	Yes, sometimes you hope that there will be a debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u67	That's good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try not to encourage debate, if that is your wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u68	That's not my wish, you know. But sometimes it can also be a little less broad-minded, to put down a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u69	Okay, I'm gonna do my best. I have just indicated that there is no such thing as one model in which a company has to do it all. I think that we really need to look at the prefaces in which everyone, every entrepreneur, every farmer, can make their own choices and that this must be central. Mr Futselaar asked what that means, for example, for exports. Can we still export if we have these conditions? I think I have just outlined that different choices can be made in this respect, and of course these circles must be closed. That is indeed quite a challenge at international level. I'm right about that, too. It is not just going to lead to a kind of Dutch agriculture. Above all, it is about how we can work together to ensure that the production we have can be shaped at a circular level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u70	I have a question for the Minister. In the first place, I asked her exactly what this circular farming looks like when it comes to the very large farms where thousands of pigs or tens of thousands of chickens are sitting. The beauty was actually that D66 came up with a suggestion that worked very enlighteningly for me. D66 said: the soil we have available to produce food for the animals in the stables determines the number of animals we can have in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u71	On the contrary, certain animals make a very important contribution to shaping this circular farming. I believe that Mr De Groot has said this very nicely. Pigs are really animals that we cannot consume, which are not suitable for human consumption, or which we would label as waste, can convert into something valuable. They are, as it were, the value you create with them. However, we do point out that in circular agriculture you need to look at how to balance these matters with one another, especially with regard to manure. This also means that you will, so to speak, see with the farmer nearby how you can help each other in that. Where exactly that ends or exactly how it lands, I don't know yet. I can't report that yet. You can't just say that a pig only has manure and that if that manure can't be disposed of, it's gone. No, that pig also has a role in shaping that cycle in itself. So it's a broader issue than just looking at how much manure you can drop off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u72	Then let me ask the question differently. Does the Minister consider it conceivable that due to a lack of space for manure or a lack of space to grow chicken feed or other food for animals, fewer animals are needed in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u73	I think that, in the case of circular agriculture, you are going to look very closely at what nutrients you are going to give to these animals, for example. In my view, it is not intended to be nutrients that can also be used for human consumption. On the contrary, we need to look much more closely for the use of these residual streams to feed those animals. I see that there is still a lot of set-aside in this area. There are still a lot of things that are not being used in this area that we could use for that purpose. I believe that Mr De Groot also mentioned the example, perhaps in another debate, it was a debate of certain worms or peels or whatever; he always knows that much better than I do. You could also use those things, things that we do not commit to human consumption for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u74	The Minister is not answering my question. I'm sorry about that. I also said yesterday that there is a taboo under this view, namely a taboo on fewer animals. If you really take circular agriculture seriously, you should also see if it is possible to achieve this in the Netherlands. And if it's not possible, you have to admit that we have too many animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u75	I will come to the dilemma of livestock. I have heard some of your members say: can you achieve this vision with these livestock? That's actually kind of the central question. Well, it's not like this cabinet isn't doing anything about reducing livestock. I think we're going to get a lot of pig rights out of the market, which will have consequences. I mean, it's felt, and it's not like this isn't a meaningful step. Furthermore, I have noticed that when I start with the size of the livestock, we all end up in the trenches completely. That applies to all parties on both sides. I think that's a risk at other tables that are still there. I don't think that's much of a discussion, because that really doesn't get you anywhere near an inch in the end. I have sometimes shouted: this is a debate in which we all stand on a tile and only shout to the other what he does not do well and what he must do. There's no point. You have to look for ways to get along with each other. So where exactly do we come from when we have designed this circular agriculture completely? So what is the size of the livestock? I say to Mrs Bromet: I do not know that yet, and that is really a process that we must also shape. I hope Mrs Bromet appreciates that this cabinet really does something about the size of those livestock. It's been quite a while since that happened on such a scale. Everyone, however, is moving in every direction when I begin to say that this is the size of the livestock. Then we won't even have this whole debate with each other anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mrs Bromet's sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u77	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I know. I think it is a little faint that the Minister is talking about trenches, where I have just made a very binding contribution. I didn't say we should start with the numbers of animals, but I asked where it ends. I think the Minister's profit is: I don't know where it ends yet. Because if you say that, it could end up with fewer animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u78	I said exactly what I said: I do not yet know where this ends. But I do say that we must start shaping this circular agriculture. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u79	A lot of entrepreneurs are gonna end their business. Isn't that a fairly natural time to get animal rights out of the market? You can also see that entrepreneurs and the whole sector are running against the edges of environmental legislation. For example, look at the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. If that comes up with a verdict that undermines the PAS, it's all locked up. Isn't it better for the storm of sailing and yet this moment, when a lot of entrepreneurs stop, to bring back the number of animals and to keep focusing on those parts of livestock farming that create a lot of value, also economic value for society? But shouldn't you reduce the phenomenon of all those pigs that are exported, by the way of graduality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u80	I think I have just argued that we are going to do a warm clean-up precisely in that pig market, and that something is really happening there. And I would like to repeat that I do not think that has happened in recent years. Mr Moorlag says: should you not continue to do so? It seems that he already has a view as to whether or not it makes sense in certain sectors. We're talking about people who have a business running their business. If you're saying we shouldn't want any of this anymore, then I think it's a very big responsibility if you just say that to those people. That is why we have chosen to do this in a gradual way and also to give some help as a government. A while ago, I had some conversations with people in the pig sector. There are really families that are having a hard time, but they also have no way to stop. They've got their stables. They're not worth that much more. And then what? Is it, then, even I say to Mr Moorlag, very social to say: you have to stop your business and get done with it? I wouldn't want that. And that is precisely why we are in the process of giving shape to the reorganisation in this way. So I think we're doing something, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u81	Nor have I argued that nothing happens, but I do say that the momentum is there when a lot of entrepreneurs stop. There are also entrepreneurs who can't stop. I believe that, as a government, we must also bear a responsibility for this. We have allowed this situation to develop and survive. So what I'm advocating is a gentle clean-up. I call for the Area for Space Regulation to be stepped up so that the old rubbish in rural areas can be disposed of and quality added to the countryside. However, I would urge the Minister to consider making a little more speed with the reduction along the road of graduality, care and in a social way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u82	I think that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr President, on a point of order. I find this point made by Mr Moorlag in his first interruption very discriminatory towards pig farming. If...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr. Geurts, you are not having a debate with Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr President, I am sorry, on a point of order!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u86	Yes, but you're going to have a substantive discussion with a fellow member. That is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u87	It's highly discriminatory! Seriously discriminatory!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u88	Those are really big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u89	No, Mr. Chairman, it's highly discriminatory if you're going to export...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u90	The Minister continues her speech. This is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u91	I'm almost done with the head of vision, and then I'm gonna move on to the manure stores. Mr Geurts also pointed out that the vision was very clear about crop production and asked how I would like to support it. It is also the challenge for crop production to become a frontrunner in circular agriculture and to link it with an economic perspective. Knowledge, research and innovation play an important role in this process, including in relation to the problems of crop production. I am currently working with the top sectors and other stakeholders on a mission-driven approach, as I have just indicated, for knowledge and innovation in the fields of agriculture, water and food. Then we will also see what specific questions we need to address in order to really help the sector with the issues they have. Mrs Ouwehand asks what the vision means for the course of the species. I have included in my vision that in 2030 the sector will implement plant protection in accordance with the principles of integrated plant protection, making the most of resilient plant and cultivation systems, preventive measures and, if necessary, using low-risk plant protection products. I have also informed your Chamber of my course for plant protection, and I am carrying it out. Mr. Chairman. Those were the things that I had as much vision as possible, where a number of people may still be missing things, but they may still be coming back in the specific blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u92	I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber still has a question about the vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u93	A wonderful vision of the Minister, which we are right to discuss at length this evening. There is also a great deal going on in the country in the field of circular agriculture. There is also a network of circular farmers. There are also many examples of companies that are already working according to the new model. The Minister also visits many companies. How are we going to put those frontrunners in the picture in the transition? How can we ensure that their experience, their practice, is taken into account in the further development of the vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u94	There are several possibilities for that. I have just indicated, as a result of Mr De Groot's interruption, that I would also like us to make a kind of portal in which the knowledge and experience of certain parties are central. I see that more and more networks are emerging at local level, with parties sharing their knowledge. There are sometimes good examples which we support, for example, in terms of content. And then we're gonna go along with it, and we're gonna go along with it, and we're gonna go along with it, and we're gonna go along with it, and As a minister, I myself have a role to play in this. But sometimes, for example in the case of innovation resources, we also need to look at what we can free up for certain initiatives that seem very promising, also in order to be applied more widely. I think there are a lot of different possibilities, where it is first important to get a good picture of them. That is also something we must do in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u95	The Minister continues her speech and now begins the series.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u96	Manure and phosphate, yes. There are some questions about the phosphate dossier, the difficult choices that lie ahead in this dossier and also the concerns about the problems. I share those concerns about those troubles. Now I am not standing here in this Chamber with people who may have a different impression. When I arrived a year ago, it was just before the phosphate rights system would enter into force. I think I've lost most of my time on this file for the past year. You were right to do that. Because it is a dossier where incredibly difficult choices, incredibly painful situations and hellish dilemmas, I would say, lie at the root of it. I have always tried to strike a balance between the interests of the individual and the collective in this matter. We're having a discussion about the whole sector, and underneath it are all individual cases. Where adjustments were needed and also possible was the space very limited I also implemented them. Yet, I say with pain in my heart, we have not been able to help all the farmers who are experiencing problems in this system, and that affects me. It was mainly the entrepreneurs who were expanding their business at the time the ceiling was exceeded. As I have informed your Chamber, I have been looking for space over the past period, both here with you and with the European Commission. I have had to conclude that, taking into account the broad interest of the sector, there is no such area. Mr Geurts has already pointed it out, we have spent the last few weeks looking at any possibility that could provide space within the phosphate rights system. I sent you a letter on that last Tuesday. I am well aware that this message has come to the attention of many entrepreneurs, all the more so because I myself and the people in my department have been in close contact with these entrepreneurs over the past period, including the representatives of Innovative from the Knel. We know them, we know the stories, we know the people. In reply to Mr Madlener's question, I would like to point out that we should not turn our backs on these people, but that a new conversation with them will really not change the situation and that I do not want to give false hope to these entrepreneurs either. Mrs Lodders asked about the state of play regarding the settlement of objections in the phosphate dossier. Mr Geurts also asked about the settlement of the appeal and appeal procedures in cases of trouble. As Mrs Lodders pointed out the other day, RVO is performing a tremendously by ensuring that the objections and revisions of the decisions for livestock farmers are handled quickly and carefully. I also believe that these entrepreneurs will soon be made clear, because I understand very well that they are waiting for this. As regards the handling of the objections to the primary decision, about 80% of the regular objections have currently been dealt with. This concerns objections which do not call upon the individual disproportionate burden. The handling of objections involving recourse to the individual disproportionate burden requires more time. Around 2,000 objectionors will have to send additional documents in this respect to support their application. In the case of phosphate rights granted to livestock farms, 95% of the decisions have now been re-assessed. Almost 70% of the requests for a transaction made by meat farmers have been dealt with at present. As far as the problems are concerned, RVO is making every effort to complete the applications for the most part in 2018, but I cannot promise that they will succeed completely. A small part is expected to be completed in the first two months of 2019. People can choose to appeal after the appeal procedure. Those appeal procedures then go to court. I cannot, of course, comment on how long that will last. Mrs Lodders has also asked me to deal with breeding and export. The phosphate duty system has been established to limit total phosphate production by dairy cows and to bring them below the production ceiling. Young cattle are part of dairy farming. So phosphate rights are needed for this too. It is up to the dairy farmers themselves to consider how they will apply this in their particular situation. Mr Geurts also asked if I would be willing to search with Vee & Logistics for solutions for the breeders. I have exchanged views with your Chamber several times on possible exceptions for, for example, organic dairy cows or dairy cows of rare pet breeds. There were more wishes here about categories covered by the phosphate rights system, one more than the other felt that this was desirable or not, and I indicated that we, as legislators, have always made those choices. I'm sensing a plea for this now. It is not that Mr Geurts said that. He just asked for a solution. But one solution would then be to find an exemption position for the breeding vessels. As with all the other proposals for exceptions, this would in turn be an additional exception which is not currently covered by the law. Then I get to consider again which groups you do and which groups you should not allow in this again. I believe that this whole discussion has been held a few times. These are also dairy cows and therefore animals that contribute to the production of phosphate under the sectoral phosphate production ceiling for dairy farming. That means that they are also covered by the system. Therefore, I do not see how useful it would be to talk to Vee&Logistics about a solution, because I simply do not see it. Mrs Lodders also asked me to go into an article from V-focus. Mr Bishop also referred to that article when he spoke of the 2 million kilos of phosphate that would be withdrawn from the market. I'd like to take you in on how that turned out. Already on 29 March 2018, I informed your Chamber about the situation regarding phosphate rights in the livestock farming sector. When the law was adopted, we wanted to prevent young cattle from being kept out of the system by means of constructions with livestock farmers. During the implementation of the system as early as January of this year, signals from the sector and from RVO showed that there was uncertainty as to the scope of the system as regards young cattle in livestock farming. During that period, we were still in close contact with the sector about how the implementation went. That actually came up pretty soon. We then brought this up with the European Commission by sending it the draft Chamber letter of 29 March and discussing it. You know the conclusion of that. We have taken measures because livestock farming does not contribute to phosphate production by dairy farming and therefore the system was not intended for this purpose. That has been discussed. We were given the final green light for this when, in mid-July, during the summer holidays, I spoke to Commissioner Vestager about the broader dossier. We have seen it ourselves before, we have shared it with the European Commission and I received the green light in July so that we could shape it in this way. The granting of the rights to livestock farmers did not affect the reserved space for the troubles. The article states that there is room for economic operators in the difficulties caused by the rights to be abolished in the livestock sector. I have already indicated that we are having a whole discussion with the Commission about the amount of phosphate duty granted, that the ceiling of 84.9 million kilograms was exceeded and that the recovery of duties through the measures for livestock farming could actually ensure that a solution was found there. So too many rights have been issued. It is precisely through the recovery of the rights in the beef and veal sector that we hope to get below that ceiling, because we are being kept quite tight by the Commission. The consequence of this is that the rights recovered cannot therefore be re-allocated to dairy farmers who are or are not in difficulty. Mr. Chairman. So much for the block with the bruises and the phosphate reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr. Madlener, this is your seventh question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u98	Yes, Mr President, but it is also a very important point. I think this is the most important point for me tonight. As a new spokesperson, I have studied this dossier and I am shocked by what has happened. The government has granted permits to companies to expand. The moment that enlargement was completed or almost completed, it was said that you should not use it now. That's been really bad governance. I think that's really weird. That is why we should not be talking here about rules in Brussels or agreements that we all made up ourselves, but about finding a solution. Whatever solution it is, I don't really care, because this is really about totally inappropriate governance towards those entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship should not be a lottery in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u99	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u100	If the government grants a permit and you expand your business, then it shouldn't be the case that you can suddenly go bankrupt because of other rules. That's what this is about. My question to the Minister is: why are you not prepared to talk to the action group? Why do you not say to the European Commission: sorry, the Netherlands has made a mistake in granting the rights; that mistake is so inappropriate that we have to find a solution together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u101	It now seems as if I haven't spoken to those people, it seems as if what is happening doesn't touch me and it seems as if I would have infinitely many solutions to solve this, but all three are not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u102	Your last question, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u103	There has been talk of improper administration. Does the Minister agree? Does she think it is normal for the government to grant a permit to a company and then say: you cannot put it into use; your investment has become worthless? That can't be true, can it? If the Minister does not think that this has been proper, why does she not go to Europe to say: sorry, we have just made a mistake; this leads to such a terrible situation that we cannot but make up for that mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u104	I'm a minister for a year. I have no more difficult file than this, and I won't have it in years to come. This applies to all these Members in this Chamber who have been working on this dossier for years. This hurts everyone. This isn't a coalition or opposition thing at all. This is simply an incredibly complicated situation in which we have had many debates to see what can be done. Every time, initiatives are being taken, including from this Chamber, to see what can still be done. I am not unwilling to do so, but I just need to find the space within the frameworks that exist. If only life were so clear and simple, I would almost say to Mr Madlener. It's not like this, and I can't make it more beautiful than it is. I know that Mr Madlener is new to this dossier, so I understand that he has recently come into contact with this situation. I also entered this debate halfway through. Believe me, it's already taken a lot of pain and effort to have that debate. That's not because people think "well, we'll take care of it this way," but because it's incredibly complicated. Everyone would have wanted this to be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u105	I think the Minister is more than right in saying that this is an incredibly complicated dossier. I asked a few brief questions about it yesterday because we are talking about the agricultural budget, but this issue actually requires much more attention, especially when I read the Minister's letter on motivations and the state aid decision. I am afraid that on the course there have been terms such as ground bondage and that the cow is in the meadow. It is very worrying that these have come in. How can we get these out in the very short term? These are parts that do not belong in such a decision with Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u106	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u107	My question is that before the end of the year I should like to have a more detailed discussion with the Minister. Of course, we are dealing with this ourselves, but that deserves to be done. How are we going to ensure that at the end of the year there is not a lot of unused space available, or somewhere in the air? That would be very harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u108	I think it is good to have a separate debate on it, but it is obviously up to the Chamber to make a choice. The groundboundness in the decision was seen on the phosphate bank. One condition to participate in the phosphate bank is that you are ground bound, so in that sense it was already in the decision, we already knew that and the Chamber has agreed or wished to do so. Excuse me, but can Mrs Lodders repeat the third question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u109	About the amount of phosphate duty remaining unused at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u110	I interpret the question in such a way that someone does have phosphate rights, but that there is no production against it. Is that what Mrs. Lodders means? It is not true that we still have phosphate rights on the plan, except for what is in the phosphate bank, but that is not very much. I sent a letter about that. I'd like us to open up that phosphate bank. I have also indicated that the Chamber has given a number of restrictions, in which it is put forward in time, if I have to comply with those restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u111	In this Chamber, the VVD, like other parties, has already drawn attention to the fact that there are unused phosphate rights on the companies here and there. We have a ceiling and we have to stay below it, but that hole should not be too big, otherwise we have too many poignant situations. A subject that I will raise a number of times in the coming months is how we deal with it. I understand this is very complicated, too. Towards Brussels we have a phosphate ceiling. We have always said in the Chamber that we should not go beyond that, but that we should use it as much as possible. I think this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u112	I think it would be a good idea to have a more detailed discussion on this point. It is complicated that I have to decide whether there are rights on a particular farm and how many animals are against it. That's quite a job. The person who could do that is the RVO and he is also working on some other matters. Anyway, let's talk about how to shape that. I don't quite see how I could do that yet. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the fishing block. Fishing has a beautiful tradition in our country, but there are quite a few challenges to it. I have set out in the vision how the challenges of fishing can be met throughout circular agriculture. There's already quite a bit going on in the sector. I understand the unrest among the people who make their living there, for example, about matters such as pulse, the Brexit, the arrival of wind farms and the future prospects of the fisherman. I believe that Mr Geurts referred to the latter. We have already discussed Brexit and what is going on in a number of cases recently. I am also working very intensively to constantly explore and emphasize the possibilities for pulse, for this innovative form of fish that we would very much like to retain. It is also important to put innovation at the heart of this sector regardless of the outcome of all kinds of things that are currently going on. The cabinet has released additional innovation resources for support in the sector. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked me what is going on with the use of these funds. I am consulting with fishermen, NGOs and knowledge institutions to draw up a plan of action that will allow us to use these resources in a way that meets the needs of this sector: where do they see opportunities and opportunities and how can we contribute to them? I will inform your Chamber before the end of the year. An existing instrument for innovation is the EMFF. It's always such a tonguebreaker when you say it quickly. Mr Weverling and Mr Geurts asked me about the benefits from this fund and how we can ensure that this fund becomes attractive and therefore more used. The under-exhaustment of the EMFF is something that has been discussed a great many times: what exactly is it and why does all this money remain on the shelf? I myself have discussions about this with the Commissioner. If we are to make an arrangement and if we want it to be used for innovation, then we must make an accessible arrangement, otherwise there will be a huge amount of money left on the table. That's no use to him either. So it's part of the design of the EMFF. We are, of course, now working on the new regulation and we are looking at how we can shape it more. At the same time, I am simply trying to support the sector and see how we can ensure that in the existing situation and the existing regime we can deal with it in such a way that these resources are accessible to them. For example, RVO is committed to reducing the administrative burden on applicants as far as possible and to assisting applicants in the administrative procedure. So we relieve them a little bit. We hope that this will reduce the threshold for fishermen to use the fund. Wind parks in the North Sea. That is, of course, also an up-to-date discussion. It is also a discussion that I regularly have with fishermen, because these wind farms also affect the fishing grounds. At the same time, there are opportunities for aquaculture to grow shellfish, seaweed and algae in these large areas. On the one hand, therefore, there are limitations and on the other we may have opportunities, but we need to examine them to see how we can make opportunities of them. That seems to me to be a very Dutch institution. Mr Weverling asked whether my ministry had a sufficient position in the debate on wind farms at sea and whether sufficient action was being taken to safeguard the interests of fisheries and nature. The debate on the North Sea is conducted together with other ministries: the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, the Ministry of the Interior. And, of course, I pay attention to the interests of fisheries and nature. You can really hold me to that. We also work well with the fisheries sector and with nature organisations. We are also talking to the energy sector to make the right choices in this area. There will be a strategic agenda for the North Sea 2030, which I will draw together with the Minister of IenW. This really involves all stakeholders, including the fisheries sector and nature organisations. So we are sitting on the table there, and I am always bringing in the interests of nature and fisheries. Mr. Chairman. That was the fishing block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u114	Okay, so I'm gonna move on to the food block. The appreciation for food and for those who produce our food is widely felt. Mrs Lodders commented on this when she expressed her support for the "thank the farmer" action. She drew attention to this last year. I really liked it without knocking myself on the chest.... to see what kind of resonance that was felt by several people, even here from the Chamber. There was specific attention for who is behind our food, and for the question of whether we appreciate enough what all these people are doing. Mrs. Lodders asked us to do it again next year. As far as I am concerned, and I hope that it will receive even more and wider support than it has been this year. Mrs Dik-Faber has written an initiative paper in which an important element is the appreciation of food. I think we're going to discuss this own-initiative paper a little bit more. I've been browsing through it for a while. It's interesting. I would like to enter into the debate to see how we can make the appreciation for food and for those who produce it stronger. The sector itself is also taking all kinds of initiatives to emphasise the value of food. In this way, hopefully, it will be for more people to live that there is so much behind all that daily food they have, that we can be grateful for that and that food is not something we can just waste. Appreciation of food is also an important part of circular agriculture. It is not only precious in terms of economic value, but also because it is produced by the earth, by nature and by the hard work of men. About all the food we throw away, I'd rather not. But sometimes there are certain things or residual flows, where we have to think much more that it can be used, for example as feed for animals. That way, it keeps value. And if we just do that fairly consistently, we can also do it with less soy, maize and other animal feed. We may now import it from distant continents. I have just indicated that food waste is one of the key priorities, including in the vision, although my commitment is, of course, broader than just on food waste. But with the launch of the joint agenda of the Task Force Circular Economy in Food, for example, a major step has been taken in the fight against food waste. Mrs Dik-Faber has also raised a number of questions in this area. She asked about the discussions with the supermarkets and the EU on cosmetic requirements for products. I'm talking to the supermarkets, LTO and other stakeholders right now. I want to come to agreements with them, to give more room for this kind of fruit and vegetables, so that they are preserved for direct human consumption. I would also like to comment on Mrs Dik-Faber's motion. I shall try to make specific agreements on this before Christmas, and I shall inform your Chamber accordingly. At the moment, I am having an inventory of the cosmetic aspects that could be considered for abolition. On the basis of the results, I am not only talking to the European Commission, but also to a United Nations body, UNECE. It lays down international marketing standards. I will inform you about the results in spring 2019. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the shelf life dates on fruit and vegetables. No expiry date is necessary on fresh fruit and vegetables. Supermarkets can do this themselves. I will also draw attention to the date at the parties of the green deal. NFLI, CBL and NZO are included. This deal aims to ensure that businesses and public authorities are committed to a better understanding and use of sustainability data on food for consumers and businesses. So they can work with their own members on this. Mr Moorlag gave the example of France. There is an initiative to ban supermarkets from throwing away food. He asked if I was prepared to do this with legal instruments like France. Over the past four years, a constructive cooperation has been established between Food Banks Netherlands and almost all national retailers. With six supermarket organisations with a combined market share of more than 80%, cooperation agreements have been entered into, and three more will soon follow. This has resulted in a substantial increase in food availability for the food banks. As a result, food banks in the Netherlands have been able to help more people and there is at present sufficient food for the current marketing. In view of the voluntary and constructive cooperation between supermarkets and food banks in the Netherlands, I am not in favour of re-focusing energy on the introduction of legislation, especially if it focuses on one link, supermarkets or some companies, from the food chain. I think, on the contrary, that we have shown in recent years that we have tried to find very pragmatic solutions to combat food waste. There have really been some real steps taken. That's what I'd like to focus that energy on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u115	Are you at the end of your food block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u116	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr. Moorlag, you're at the interrupting microphone, but wait a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u118	I'm almost at the end of this block, so maybe Mr. Moorlag can stand still. The provision of local and regional products also contributes to circular agriculture. That is why I am committed to promoting the sale of these products. Both Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the possibilities of making agreements with supermarkets. My ministry is talking to supermarkets on a variety of topics. As has been said, food waste is one of them, but also, for example, the position of the farmer in the chain is one of them. I would like to undertake to discuss the inclusion of local products in the range and their visibility in supermarkets in these talks. In the LNV vision, I also underlined the importance of transparency. A practical test carried out in 2016 with a QR code on pigmeat products showed that consumers only use the QR code moderately, but do value the ability to obtain information. In the meantime, several parties in the food chain have engaged in activities to inform consumers, either through a QR code or in a different digital way. I have also commissioned a follow-up study on transparency in the chain. In this context, a number of pilots are being carried out. In this context, I would also like to mention the second benchmark of sustainability labels that the Environment Central is currently carrying out on my behalf. That too is a way to provide insight into sustainability, including animal welfare. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked if I believe that food education in programmes such as Healthy School should be further encouraged. I share the view that food education is of great importance. The Healthy School programme is an action of the VWS Ministry and I work intensively with my colleague Blokhuis on this issue. The LNV programme Jong Leren Eten is conducted in good coordination with Healthy School. This program invests in cooking classes, vegetable gardens and school gardens, and farm education. As of 1 November, the subsidy scheme will also be released! open, providing schools with support for guest classes and a visit to a farm or other food-related company. I say to Mrs Dik-Faber that I cannot force every school to visit a farm or that every student visits a farm once in his life, but we do have a series of such stimulating programmes, which make it easier for schools to do so, so that students can see where the food comes from and be able to get to know healthy and sustainable food. For this I work intensively with Gezonde School and therefore also with VWS and OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u119	The Minister is right to say that good steps are being taken. Nevertheless, a lot of food is still being wasted. At the supermarkets steps are now being taken, but look at the catering industry. I was totally surprised about Fat Kee Restaurant. That's less than 250 yards from here. It's a Chinese diner. There after the meal is just spontaneously offered to pack the remaining food for you so you can take it with you. A lot of people are just scared to ask, but that should be the rule, shouldn't it? Surely it should be the rule that no food is thrown away, not by supermarkets and not in the catering industry? In the end, a legal step, a legal stick behind the door, has helped to reduce smoking in public places. That is why legislation is important, not as a starting point, but as an end point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u120	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u121	The setting of a clear standard is necessary to my liking. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u122	I share, more than he might think, with Mr Moorlag the view that food waste is really worthless. I can't give you another word for it. All activities should focus on reducing them. We have a goal, the Sustainable Development Goals, in which we have to halve our food waste. I fully agree that there are still some steps to be taken. I think we really need to take action on that. Is that the most appropriate means of achieving that goal? I am afraid that we are going to put a lot of time and energy into adopting legislation, where a lot of parties are going to look at how they can get around that legislation, when this is much more of a mindset that we should be achieving. I think Mr Moorlag himself is setting an example. Abroad, it's often quite normal for you to get the food you haven't eaten. You can ask for that. We can do the same in the Netherlands. We just don't do it. Somehow it's not in our system. I'd like to say to people: go do that, that's normal. Only recently I saw a very nice example of restaurants. It was even a bit wider than that.... that each day in an app indicate what food they have left, which you can then pick up for a very reasonable amount. You'll get what the pot buys. It's not like you have all kinds of choices in there. These kinds of developments are very pragmatic steps that contribute to the cultural change that we have to make with each other. I think that the legislation is precisely what is causing us to find all kinds of ways of failing to comply with it at the moment. That's the wrong energy, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mr. Moorlag, your sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u124	I am concerned that this approach to food waste is being stepped up. I also taste that will with the Minister, but the Minister, in my opinion, gives the wrong example, namely that people have to ask to get the remaining food. Would it not be much more effective to make an agreement with the industry or to set a legal standard in the extreme? Let's start by making an appointment with the industry that catering companies offer it to people. Surely that would be a much more effective means? 17 million people don't have to get over their nerves. Shouldn't it be a rule that a catering company offers to give that food?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u125	Perhaps I can deal with Mr Moorlag a little bit. We have a platform in which we discuss food waste and many stakeholders are included. I take this example to this platform to see how those stakeholders respond to the demand to offer more actively, if there is any food left, to give it home. I think that's a good suggestion. We do not need laws and regulations for that. I will put it there and challenge them to come up with good ideas to carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u126	I have two brief questions about the knowledge about our food. The previous cabinet considered that the livestock sector has nothing to hide. How does this minister feel about that? Does the Minister recognise that she may be able to work on that connection in the Netherlands, but that all the awareness that is created about it is only about the stuff we sell in the Netherlands? She can't do that for the big part we're exporting. Or does she have plans to connect these consumers with the Dutch farmers in Germany, Japan and all the other countries we sell stuff to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u127	I know Mrs. Ouwehand was abroad last week, in New York. She has undoubtedly seen which Dutch products are sold there. I can tell you that the price goes up at the same time as a few euros or dollars if it says "made in Holland" because they are quality products. This applies not only to food, but also to cut flowers. We have our agricultural councils, which provide a lot of information about what is going on in the Netherlands and how our products are being produced. I don't think the New York kids are going to visit our farmers to see where their products come from. But I believe that in broad terms we are trying to bring to the attention of the public where our products come from and what quality they stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr President, I find it a bit annoying that I have to sacrifice another question on this, because it was an answer, but not necessarily to my question. My first brief question was: does this cabinet share the opinion of the previous cabinet that livestock farming has nothing to hide? The second question was: does the Minister recognise that what you can do here for the connection between the citizen and the farmer in the purchase and consumption of food, you cannot realize abroad? I'm talking about the school programs and ads. Does the Minister recognise that this is true of what we produce for the Dutch market and that we cannot do it for food that we produce for abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u129	I am trying to look a bit at the question behind Mrs Ouwehand's question. I think she means: the moment we export there is no more knowledge about our farmers and you should not. That could simply be the explanation of Mrs Ouwehand's question. But if she says that when products are consumed abroad, it is not immediately clear what our farm means, then of course I recognize that. Anyway, now I'm asking a question to Mrs Ouwehand. What exactly does she want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u130	Since the Minister is asking very specifically about the question, I will take one look at my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u131	I feel like it's a rhetorical question from Mrs. Ouwehand, and I'm looking for the rhetoric behind it. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u132	No, that's not so bad. I have already stated in the first term that I very much support this connection between citizens and farmers. People need to know where the food comes from. But that already has 70% of our production being exported. I was just wondering if the Minister would acknowledge that, no more and no less. And I really want an answer to my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u133	That was the question: doesn't livestock farming have anything to hide? Yeah, no. That is a category of questions where I look a bit: what exactly does Mrs Ouwehand want? But maybe she just wants a "yes" or a "no." Well, okay. On the second question: I think we already have a whole world to win in the Netherlands to show our people where those products actually come from at all. I think that Mrs Dik-Faber has explained this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u134	The Minister mentioned the intensive cooperation between LNV and VWS in programmes such as "Jong Leren Eten," "Healthy at school" or "The Healthy School Canteen." "Jong Leren Eten" is about primary schools, "The Healthy School Canteen" is about all schools, but especially mbo. Can you give me an example of this intensive cooperation? Where did it lead? You've been at work for one year now. Your colleague is also from the Christian Union. What has been the outcome of this intensive cooperation, the adaptation of programmes or anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u135	I believe that Mr De Groot and the Chamber have already received a food letter in which we have jointly set out our guidelines for food policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u136	Has that also changed and aligned the programmes? Or has it been before: we work intensively together, because we put everything together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u137	No, I think we're always looking for ways in which we can design programs properly. I have just mentioned a programme in which there will soon be another subsidy to make it easier to get to the farmer's yard. That is one that we do, because of course it is primarily in the area of LNV. I call the Young Learn to Eat Programme. Of course, we also have the programme in which children receive fruit and vegetables at school. Then it is one, then it is the other that grants or makes it possible. But that doesn't mean we do that separately or anything like that. Here again I am looking a bit for the question behind the question. But maybe that's up to me tonight. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u138	I see that Mr De Groot wishes to respond. That is an interruption by Mr De Groot. Otherwise, we're gonna keep doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u139	But the minister's asking me a question. If I may say very briefly: I have concerns about whether this cooperation really leads to a better use of the few, too few, money there is. That's actually the concern, but so does the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u140	I think we have explained in the food letter that we are doing what is necessary. I also indicated this evening that we have a number of programmes running. Whether that is too much or too little is, in my view, a political statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u141	I would like to thank the Minister for her presentation of what she is doing in the field of food waste. That is much and even more than I thought, because it was actually new to me that she even went to the UN to raise the issue there. My motion didn't even go that far. My compliments on that. My question is about the food waste in the supermarkets. Many consumers are increasingly seeing shelf life data on fresh products. We're also learning how to taste or something to eat. They're looking at the expiration date on a bag of potatoes, when I think you can just see and smell if they're still edible. There is one supermarket chain that has now taken the step to stop. Very good. The Minister also wants to raise this issue. Are there any ways in which we can tempt supermarkets to take really big steps in this? There's a lot of profit to be made here. I understand that the Minister cannot force it, but are there agreements to be made with supermarkets, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u142	I have indicated that I am now in conversation with the supermarkets to make arrangements about this kind of thing. I can't force it, but I can tell you how I'm in it. That's what I do here in public, and that's what you do to the public. I have also seen that last summer, for example, there really started to be indignation, including among consumers. That was not about the expiration date, but about the requirements that are apparently imposed on the size of a tomato or a prune or what else we had for products. These are products that are very edible and everyone says: yes, but I never made that demand and I think it is a good product, even if it is a few millimeters smaller than normal. Let's not waste that. I do not think that we should underestimate the strength of such movements, in which certain steps are taken and sometimes I try to give a push to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u143	I also saw and shared the social outrage. I recognise the same social outrage when it comes to putting out plastic products on trays with an expiry date, while it is about fresh products. Again, there is one supermarket that would like to take steps. To my taste too little, but well, steps are being taken. Can we use the social debate to get those supermarkets moving more? Does the Minister see an opportunity to make agreements and when will the Chamber be informed about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u144	I'm actually talking to the supermarkets. That's what I just reported. This is not something I command or forbid. They can indeed do so first. I have indicated that we can also discuss it in the green deal. We want to make the arrangements before the end of the year, so it may be just before or just after the year changes that I inform the Chamber about the arrangements I have made. But it is good that we continue to feed this pressure with each other, because I admit that we all want some things strangely, but it does not happen right away. I do not always have the legal means, but I do have "management by speech." Every Dutchman has that. I would like to call for this once in a while. Luckily, that's what's gonna happen. I come to the block of animal welfare and I start with a message from today which, unfortunately, has spooked us, about animals that died in a fire in a stable. A barn fire is horrible and brings great suffering to animals and has a great impact on entrepreneurs and aid workers involved. We agree unanimously that something must be done here and that it is necessary to reduce the risk of a barn fire and to reduce the number of animals killed in a barn fire. That is also my approach to the discussions I have with the parties, because they will also have to take their own role in this. Mr Futselaar has asked whether I intend to amend the Building Decision for existing stables. He wanted to make that clear. Mr De Groot asked how we could speed up the handling of barn fires. Until a few years ago, there was not much, but not enough, insight into the causes of barn fires. In recent years, research has been carried out into the cause of barn fires, such as short-circuits. With this knowledge, it is possible to focus more on effective measures to reduce the risk of a barn fire and to accelerate the approach to combating barn fires. These measures are also included in the new Action Plan Stalbranden, which has been drawn up in cooperation with, among other things, the Animal Protection Committee. Your Chamber also received that action plan. This concerns, for example, periodic electrification, the use of even more careful action by farmers, the fight against rodents and talks with provinces on spatial planning aspects. In addition, an external agency is conducting an investigation into the effectiveness and cost of a number of preventive and harm reduction measures and the possibilities for their inclusion in regulation. This study has almost been completed and also addresses the necessary regulatory adjustments to lay down further requirements for the fire safety of existing stables. As indicated earlier, I will send your Chamber a letter before the end of the year on the results of this investigation and on the further approach to the prevention of barn fires. Mr Graus asked about the Stable-Safe system and a possible practical test. The Action Plan on Fire-Safe Animal Stables 2018-2022, which I sent to the Chamber this summer, included innovative ideas that are important to achieve appropriate practical measures in the end. With the initiators of such innovative systems, the members of the Working Group on Action Plan Stalbranden are in contact with the developers of the Stable Safe system. It is up to the members of this working group to consider whether and when a practical trial can start with Stable Safe, but I will convey to them the warm plea of Mr Graus. Mr Graus also asked whether we could ensure that animals could not be confiscated by bailiffs. He's right to point this out. I also agree with him that we should not want to do that, and that is why the government is doing something about this. A bill is currently being prepared to ensure that pets can no longer be seized. This amendment of law, the Amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure and any other laws relating to the revision of the law of attachment and execution, has been consulted on the internet this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u145	I believe that Mr Geurts has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u146	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The minister switched quickly, but you can. Me, too, keep the barn fires busy. I have a number of observations on those barn fires, for example, that the cause of barn fires is very often unknown. My second observation is that it takes place very often in the block of a rural holiday in the Netherlands, spring holidays, summer holidays and autumn holidays. Check when the barn fires break out. Is the Minister prepared to go with the insurance companies and real fire experts to see if we can get that "cause unknown" faster to "cause known"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u147	I think I am going to broaden Mr Geurts' question a little bit, because, as far as I am concerned, we really need to show urgency on this. This is something that just hits everyone on all sides. There's been a lot of pretending to be wrong, but it's not. It affects me too and I'm also looking for what exactly is causing it and what can be done about it. I would like to say to Mr Geurts that with those who have drawn up the action plan, I would like to see again what the real quick wins we can do and how we can get a better idea of the causes. In fact, there are all the parties at the table, not only the fire brigade, the insurance companies and the animal protection industry, but also the farmers. Therefore, I did not make Mr Geurts' analysis that this might have to do with holidays, but well, we should not be thinking here about opportunities or difficulties. We must all put our hands on this. So I'd like to start the conversation with this working group. I was in the animal business. I have just spoken about the legislative proposal that has gone into consultation on Mr Graus's justified point. Mr Wassenberg has asked a number of questions about experimental animals. For example, he asks whether I have addressed my fellow executives on their financial responsibility for the transition to animal-free research. Mr Graus also asked for cooperation with other ministries to deliver on the aid. During the AO Animal Studies we had on 7 June last, I already indicated that LNV is directing the Transition Animal-Free Innovation, TPI, and that we should take the TPI as an integral government. After all, the issues are also taking place in different policy areas. In addition to the LNV site, this involves of course VWS, OCW, IenW and EZK. I am currently in consultation with colleagues to see what the possibilities are for further contributing to this. As promised, I will inform your Chamber of the progress of the TPI on an annual basis. Then this will be taken into account. Mr Wassenberg also asked if I would be prepared to come up with a phasing-out plan for the use of experimental animals for intensive livestock farming. On 1 October, the Animal Affairs Council presented an opinion on animal testing for livestock. In this view, valuable tools are provided to encourage responsible animal use within the aim of sustainable livestock farming. This view, together with my policy response, will also be offered to your Chamber for the AO Animal Welfare that we will soon have. Mr Wassenberg also asked two more questions which are actually on the premises of my colleague from OCW. He asked about the understanding of the use of experimental animals in studies that the government contributes to. That's what my colleague Van Engelshoven is about. My colleague of Defense is primarily responsible for experimental animals in relation to nerve gas. I understand that written questions have been asked by the Animal Party on this point. They'll be answered by my colleague in the Defense Department. Mr. Chairman. That was the block of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u148	Are you going to the NVWA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yes. It's a subject we've had a lot of exchanges about. Ms Lodders discussed the division of responsibility between the ministries of LNV and VWS as principals and the NVWA in terms of policy and policy making. The responsibility for making policies regarding food, goods, animals and nature lies with me and Mr Bruins. This policy is developed and designed by the ministries of LNV and VWS, for example when it comes to substantive standards. The NVWA is then responsible for supervision and enforcement. On the basis of the policy of the ministries, the NVWA makes its general and specific intervention policy, which lays down the findings on which inspectors should intervene. This is to ensure that NVWA's actions are consistent and predictable. This approach is also in line with the designation of the 2015 Prime Minister's State Inspections. Mrs Lodders also spoke of Buro. Buro does not have a policy role, but makes risk assessments. These assessments may then give rise to new policy-making by the ministries. Advice on this should be independent, on a scientific basis, which is also laid down in the Independent Risk Assessment Act. But the policy must therefore be defined in the department. Mrs Sorgdrager has also made a number of recommendations about this in her Fipronil research. Minister Bruins and I have indicated that we will adopt these recommendations and that we will inform your Chamber about the implementation of those recommendations by the end of the year. My proposal would be to include the question put by Mrs Lodders, who is actually already in one of the recommendations of the Sorgblader committee, and to hold the substantive debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u150	I made quite a point of that in the first term, so I think it is good to respond to this. I have prepared a motion and I am going to submit it in second term, at least to mark the point. I'll see what the Minister of my motion thinks. There will be another debate on the Sorgblader committee. That's just before the end of the year or early next year. I think it would be useful to wait for the letter from the ministers. Let us then continue the debate on the substance. What I hear in the Minister's response is that I am not going to go further in the debate, but that is also what I want to highlight here. It is that more space is being sought than I really would like. Reference is made to a law amendment, or a provision in the law. I realize that very much. It is therefore the intention to amend that law so that all the policies that are made in the formulation of the policy rules will really reach the trade ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u151	The Sorgblader Committee has, of course, made a recommendation on this point: policy must be with the ministries. We are now in the process of shaping the reaction very carefully, because this is something you really need to think through and discuss with each other. I have heard the point made by Mrs Lodders. My proposal would be to take that with us anyway, but just to take it well into the letter on Sorgblader's recommendations, so that we can really have the debate on it. I hope that we can shape that in that way. Mr Futselaar asked, in my view, not for the first time, whether the resources available to the NVWA are sufficient to carry out its task. Mr Geurts asked for a reflection on how to pass on costs to business, and Mrs Lodders also drew attention to this. The government has made funds available to the NVWA for animal welfare and food safety during the government agreement. In the 2019 budget, a first tranche of the funds of structural 5 million was made available to the NVWA through the budgets of VWS and LNV. In addition, 4 million for 2019 has occasionally been added through these two budgets. So there's additional resources going to the NVWA as well. At present, the Audit Service Rijk carries out two investigations at NVWA. I informed you of this by letter of 15 October. The first study, the screening study, should include an idea of what the NVWA is doing to manage and/or promote a cost-effective and efficient task. On the basis of this picture, the Audit Service will make recommendations. The aim of research two, I shall mention the fee research, is to examine the cost structure and its translation into NVWA's rates and to make recommendations on this. For this research, as I promised, a sounding board group was set up with parties from the business community, which first met with the ADR researchers on 30 October. The ADR will address the allocation of overhead in the fee study. It has also been asked to come up with alternative cost transfer methods, if possible, within the framework of the Cabinet of Cost Covering Rates. For both studies, the research questions are also before your Chamber. I promised, and they're here, too. My commitment is to carry out the investigations quickly. The original planning is that this end of the year has been completed, but this also depends a little on the nature of any additional questions from your Chamber and on the time limit for sending them to me. So if you feel any incentive in this, that's a good thing. The two studies will have to strengthen the picture of the finance and the necessary funding of the NVWA, with which I can make an integral financial assessment. I will, of course, inform your Chamber about this further after the investigations have been completed. I will also inform you about the use of other funds from the coalition agreement. I have indicated that I will also link this with the results of those investigations. Mr President, that was the block of NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u152	Mr Futselaar has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u153	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that I have been given an answer to my question, and therefore I would like to outline some of the context why I keep asking him. The NVWA is a service that is very under pressure and I think it is the duty of the Minister.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And if something goes wrong, she should not say: yes, but one had to work at the NVWA within the budget that one had. Of course, you can ask at any post if it's enough, but I think that's a bit more loaded when it comes to this service. Is it enough? For example, Brexit was not enough. The Minister said that we need additional inspectors to compensate for this. That is a very clear 'here we need extra money' measure. So I am simply asking in general: are the resources sufficient for the NVWA to carry out its tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u154	We are on the route NVWA 2020. The aim of this process is precisely to shape monitoring and enforcement in such a way that we can do so in a more effective but also more efficient way. There are all kinds of programs underneath it; your Chamber is familiar with it. In doing so, we also look for ways in which you can have the NVWA targeted, and also risk-oriented, monitored. We have seen in the formation of the coalition agreement that there is some pressure on that. That is why, in the coalition agreement, we have also made additional resources available to ensure that the NVWA can continue to do exactly what it is. These funds are now being paid out. I just indicated what we're doing in 2019. There are even more resources in the budgets of my department and of VWS. I have indicated, also at the request of your Chamber, that we are going to make a decision on how we are going to spend these resources if we have all the investigations. However, with the resources we have, and with the transition to NVWA 2020, I would like to ensure that we can have effective supervision and effective enforcement. And can it always be more? I've had a discussion with you about how many inspectors you need. It was then about manure fraud. I have sometimes said: I do not have the illusion that I can put an inspector behind every tree. Then you get a situation where, well, there's a lot of discussion. It is the challenge to ensure that you can organise your supervision properly and effectively, with new methods, risk-oriented, but also with the resources you have. That is the search that we are making with each other, and that is why the cabinet has also made additional resources available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u155	Let me put it this way: at least I didn't hear a clear "yes" to my question. I think the crux is next. If we are having a debate on manure fraud and on how many inspectors should or should not be behind trees, then I would like to be able to have that debate on the basis of: how much do I think is needed? I do not want to be stopped at some point by the doer of death: yes, but they have to do it with the budget available for it. That is why I am asking this question. Of course, you can't control everything. There's always a limit and things can always go wrong. But it's not the first time we've talked about the NVWA. This subject comes back rather structuralally, and not always positive. I therefore consider this question politically relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u156	If the NVWA sees that somewhere more supervision and enforcement is needed, we will also look at the prioritisation within the NVWA. Let me give you an example of manure fraud. We can now use more inspectors because we in the European Commission have agreed that we need to reduce the supervision of derogation companies, because we see that they are doing very well in compliance with the rules. I think that's also an example of a choice you make as an organization. Where are the societal challenges and what can we put people on? I think it's always the discussion here whether it's too much or too little. I see above all that the NVWA is looking for a good form in which we can shape supervision and enforcement with the means available. The cabinet has also said that additional resources need to be made available. And if that's what we need, we'll also opt for reprioritisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u157	To be continued with the next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u158	Yes. The fact that Mr Futselaar comes back to this every year is a constant fact. That's okay. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the block about nature. Nature lets us all enjoy ourselves. Fortunately, so do a lot of people. I am committed to protecting and improving that nature and biodiversity. Nature policy is carefully starting to bear fruit. The decline of species in nature reserves is slowly coming to a standstill. Swamp and freshwater nature are beginning to recover. But we're far from there. The task is great, in the Netherlands and worldwide, as witnessed, for example, the reports on insect mortality, and this week the Living Planet Report of the World Wildlife Fund. In the Netherlands, in particular, the species in the agricultural area are still declining. One of the goals of my LNV vision is to reverse this development, by encouraging, among other things, nature-inclusive agriculture but also the shift to circular agriculture. I am delighted to say this, and I do not think it is cynical that Mr Geurts and Mr Weverling have made such warm pleas for nature and especially for nature in the city. The restoration of biodiversity also requires an effort in the urban environment. I am therefore pleased with the attention paid to this. In addition, a green environment in cities has several positive effects, for example in the areas of climate adaptation, social cohesion, water management and residential enjoyment. Cities therefore benefit greatly from greenery. Fortunately, there is also a lot going on in this area. For example, I contribute to the green deals 'green roofs' and '1,000 hectares of new urban nature'. I also support the development of tools to translate the value of green into euros in the city, such as the Green Baten Planner. Municipalities can use the insights from this instrument in their decision-making. The proposal for a global climate agreement also refers to an effort to create more trees in the urban area. But in cities there are other interests, such as the large housing inventory and accessibility. It is therefore also important to look at all these aspects in conjunction with each other. The National Environment Vision, the NOVI, is a good framework to raise the issue of greening in relation to other goals in the built environment. The NOVI will probably be released at the beginning of 2019; the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already informed you about this. In addition, greening of cities plays a role in the framework of the National Climate Adaptation Strategy, the NAS. In the implementation program of the NAS, the relationship nature-climate adaptation is one of the spearheads. Work is under way on an action programme which includes greening of cities. Mr Weverling asked for special attention to be paid to the "Feeding and greening the cities" programme and whether I would like to bring this programme to man or woman worldwide together with my colleague for Foreign Trade. The beautiful concept of "feeding and greening the cities" offers the Dutch agricultural sector good opportunities to strengthen its export position. The Netherlands has knowledge and high quality products as starting material for food gardening and ornamental farming to offer for the mega cities of the world. Together with my colleague for Foreign Trade, I also invest in important international horticultural exhibitions. The upcoming Floriade in 2022 in Almere is also an excellent opportunity to introduce foreign decision makers to this concept.It's all a lot of English today; decision makers in Dutch, I think. The international strategy for feeding and greening the cities, together with the business community and the knowledge cluster, is supported by the top sectors such as Gardening and Starting Materials and Agri & Food. "Feeding and greening the cities" will also be included in the horticultural agreement. So are there any chances? Yes. Mr Geurts also commented on the consequences of urbanisation on the quantity of agricultural land available. It is true that urbanisation of our country is accompanied by a reduction in the area of land available for agriculture. Moreover, the reduction in agricultural land does not necessarily lead to an intensification of agriculture. A vital rural area is of great importance to our country, while maintaining the balance between the different forms of land use. Agriculture has an essential role to play in our rural areas, in addition to living, working and recreation. These developments need the full attention of the various authorities involved, each of which has to assume their responsibilities in this area. Mr Futselaar has also gone into nature. He asked about the meadow birds and the delta plan biodiversity restoration. I recently informed your Chamber in a letter about the approach of meadow birds. In it I outline the additional measures announced by the provinces in their action plans and the additional pilots I support from the Empire. These measures are aimed at land-based agriculture. However, the path to stabilisation of the meadow and field bird population requires a long breath. That is why I would now like to await the first approach and the results of these pilots. I do not see any need for additional measures now. Of course, I am also looking hopefully and hopefully at the insights that the delta plan provides biodiversity restoration. If the plan is presented, I understand that the authors are striving towards the end of November, I will see where connections can be made, including with grazing bird management, and how we can give the delta plan as such a place. Finally, I would like to address Mrs Dik-Faber's question about the opinion on the monitor landscape. This opinion looks at the establishment of a monitoring system for the landscape in the Netherlands in a broad sense. The advice was therefore given to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as a coordinating minister. Because of the relationship with the agricultural cultural landscape, I have recently been offered the advice as Minister of LNV. I will study the advice and discuss it shortly with the Minister of BZK, the College of National Advisors and OCW. I sent your Chamber a letter on 15 October on the protection of landscape elements and I will see if the initiative can be helpful in this respect. Mr President, this was the block of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u159	Before I give the floor to Mr Futselaar, I would like to say that the announcement by the VAO about the stint will not be converted into a real VAO, so we will only be discussing the agricultural budget this evening. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u160	Mr President, we can turn off the lights. I have another question about the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, and this seems to me the most logical place for that. During the first period, I asked a question. There will be a ruling from the Court next week. What if it turns out negative for the Dutch position, which is likely? The Minister replied in writing, but I am not entirely satisfied with that answer. I'm gonna take a little more time, but I'm gonna let you cross off an interruption, Mr. President. What the Minister is actually saying is that next week is that statement, but the Council of State is going to translate it, and it will take a while, probably until the beginning of next year. I don't think that's how it works. If we have a negative ruling next week, I think that can be done. I think a number of local authorities are going to say: the legal basis under permits is gone, we are not going to grant permits anymore. That could take months and maybe longer. Then I would like to know a little bit more about what is happening behind the scenes or in front of the scenes in order to control this process somewhat. I don't want to be a doomthinker, but there's something hanging over our heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u161	Of course, we are also thinking about scenarios within the improvement of the PAS, about what is possible there. I heard Mr Futselaar say: this was already plan B and there is no plan C. I share his concern that if the PAS as such can't do anything at all, we might as well end up in a complicated situation. But of course we are already looking at all kinds of possibilities, what we should do, for example, within the PAS if there is a ruling from the Council of State. It is true that the Court makes a ruling which may or may not be decisive for the Council of State. The Council of State makes its own assessment but will also, of course, look at what the Court has indicated in this regard. Of course, I am also in close contact with local authorities, because this is something we are all in. If there is a ruling from the Court that is not positive for the system of the PAS, I am of course in agreement with the local authorities on how they look at this and what they are going to do with it. It is therefore not the case that we are sitting on our hands until next week we hear what the Court's ruling is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u162	Can I ask, just to be sure, if there is one, whether the Minister would like to send us a letter on what she thinks would be the immediate consequences, the possible consequences and perhaps a few directions of solutions in the short term? I understand how difficult the latter can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u163	It's not like I don't want to inform the Chamber about this or anything. Only, the tricky thing is that at some point, I'm about to get ahead of a ruling from the Council of State. Then it's almost like I'm gonna send the Council of State. Let me put it this way: I will send a letter, but it may be somewhat procedural in nature and slightly less substantive than Mr Futselaar wants. But I will inform the Chamber on this, otherwise you would have asked me if the ruling was there. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the last block, the other block. There are a few short points in that. Not so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u164	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u165	There is a subject on which I think it has rightly been spoken with some restraint by some of your Members, but which is incredibly important, namely the psychosocial pressure on farmers, growers and fishermen. Mr Geurts drew attention to the great psychosocial pressure that our farmers, growers and fishermen sometimes experience. He also discussed this last year in the previous budget debate. He asked what had been done on this point. Before the summer recess, I sent a letter to your Chamber to explain how I'm going to handle this. I have also indicated that the agricultural entrepreneur and his environment do not always arrive at the right aid point in time or feel not always understood by the relevant authority. One of the important points that I have taken up is to focus on strengthening mutual knowledge and the link between the aid agencies and the agricultural sector. I also indicated in that letter that there would be a meeting this autumn in which we would discuss, together with the organisations concerned, ways of reducing the gap between farmers and psychosocial aid agencies in order to improve aid. That meeting took place yesterday. We started a little later, but that meeting took place at the time when the budget was originally due to take place. I heard it was a good meeting. The involvement of the organisations in the subject is considerable. There are several initiatives. For example, there has been talk of how positive experiences can be brought together. In addition, contacts have been strengthened between representatives of agricultural organisations and heirs and representatives of relief agencies such as Stichting 113, GGD and GGZ. I will shortly send a letter to the Chamber containing the concrete actions agreed upon, but I must say that, in view of what I have heard from the meeting and the involvement of all the organisations, I am in favour of all those parties taking their responsibilities and being really motivated to facilitate a further approach to this problem, which nevertheless has quite a lot of impact. But I will inform you more about the substance of the matter when we get it in order. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a question from Mrs Bromet on an issue on which she has already tabled an amendment, namely Schiermonnikoog and a little financial support for farmers on Schiermonnikoog. I've been there myself. I went to Schiermonnikoog this spring. I have talked to these farmers and we have cycled across the whole island, so I am well aware of the situation that is going on there, but also of how special it is that the farmers who initially met on the basis of the nitrogen deposition and the PAS-measures that the province was going to take were really looking at "are you going to stop or am I going to stop?" have moved towards a model in which they have started to work together and to seek solutions with each other. I have also seen the beautiful role that Natural Monuments played. It was a good example for me of parties that are normally opposed to each other and have now joined forces to ensure that they get perspective instead of just telling each other what the other is not doing right. Mrs Bromet asked if Schiermonnikoog could receive support for the first phase of a joint initiative that they have around a cheese factory. That requires investment. Investment is also needed to create a market position for the cheese produced there. She also asked whether there could be transitional aid for dairy farmers who would have to survive a transitional period in which they would not have any additional income with about 30% less dairy cows. I see beautiful things happening there. It is of course a very clear environment. It's an island, so you can shape all that just right. But I'm curious how that's gonna work out, how it's gonna work out. However, it is important to assess in advance the conditions under which we would support this initiative and in what way. In addition, I am a little reluctant to provide financial support, I'm just saying. There are a lot of pretty good initiatives that all need some money. Only, then, the budget is not unlimited. Then you also go on a path where others say: I would like to be entitled to this. However, I am prepared to consider with what possible support in the form of knowledge and monitoring capacity we could contribute to helping this group further. I am also curious to see how the results will be achieved there. I would also like to discuss this with Schiermonnikoog to see how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u166	Are you ready for an opinion on the amendment or do you not want to do so until the end of the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u167	I have just indicated that I do not see much room for financial possibilities, and that is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u168	Mrs Bromet, this is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm aware of it. I am going to take a moment to reflect and announce that I will be coming up with a motion on this subject in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered your Members' questions both in writing and orally, but I see that a number of people are not yet fully convinced of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mrs Ouwehand was on her way a little longer, so I think Mr Weverling will forgive me if I give her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u172	I did ask a few questions in writing about the reform of pig farming, but I wondered if the Minister could tell me how many pigs are currently on the market and how much is being paid out with the warm clean-up. In the written reply, it states that local authorities have issued a permit within the applicable environmental rules. Does she actually say that the environmental rules were too broad? If everyone stays within the rules, you can of course never have an overloaded situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u173	Of course, that situation did not arise in one year. There are many years in which licences have been issued for pig farms. I assume, and have no indication that this is different, that those permits were issued within the scope of the then applicable possibilities and that these are valid permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u174	If that's the case, then you need to tighten up your environmental rules now, don't you? If everyone has kept to the rules and a situation has arisen that causes too much nuisance, which now means that 200 million have to come out of the state treasury, in my view there are only two scenarios. One is that the local authorities have been too generous with the permits, but the minister says that this is not the case, so the environmental rules were too broad. What are we going to do, then, to ensure that the 200 million spent does not solve a problem for the moment, which may arise again later because these environmental rules are still so broad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u175	We now have a system called "animal rights." It limits the amount of pigs that we in the Netherlands can have with each other. I've indicated I'm gonna get those animal rights out. Mrs Ouwehand specifically asks how many there are. That also has to do with the price of animal rights, so I can't just say that on a notebook right now. I don't think I should go into some kind of wild guess on that one either. I think I should do that very carefully when we have that arrangement. If we take out the animal rights, these animals will not return to the market. This will also reduce the number of animals in these areas. That's the goal, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u176	Mrs Ouwehand's seventh question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u177	Mr President, thank you. I'd like to believe that, but I just want to check it out. The question of how much will go out then says the Minister is not able to answer at this time. Okay, I get that. But how many animal rights are there in the market for pigs at the moment? How many pigs? That's what I'd like to know. You can do that in a second term, but I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u178	That's a question I really need to look up the answer to. I don't have exactly how many are in the market right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u179	That's gonna be in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u180	Is this question not answered in writing? In the written answer I have many of these kinds of questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u181	That's what we hear in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u182	I have the answers, but it's not in there. How many pigs do animal rights currently exist in the market? I would very much like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u183	We'll hear that in second term. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u184	Mr. Chairman. A question on my part about CRISPR-Cas, if you'll allow me. Yesterday in the Volkskrant there was a big deal about that. Actually, there was not much news in it, because you are defending what is in the coalition agreement; we all believe that CRISPR-Cas should be made possible in Europe, despite the ruling of the European Court. You will reply in writing in a procedural manner that a letter will be sent shortly. At the moment, I would like nothing more than a procedural answer to the question of what route we intend to take to enable this CRISPR-Cas technology in Europe, because we agreed in the coalition agreement that we support it. I find the written response to be lean. My procedural question is what route we should take, in the Netherlands and in Brussels, in order to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u185	"Which route" is a substantive question, not a procedural question. This is exactly what the letter says. My colleague from IenW has the lead in this and she will, together with me, describe very precisely what possibilities we see and what route we want to take in it. I think it is so careful to wait for that letter, because it is very well explained in it. She has the lead to that letter and you will receive it very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u186	And that's what you're on next, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u187	The cabinet speaks with one mouth, Mr. Weverling, you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u188	Thank you. Let me ask you a question about the written answer on the Floriade. You have given a clear answer. You say: the cabinet considers the Floriade to be a success if progressive Dutch solutions are applied with this world exhibition, for energy, climate and so on. In doing so, the cabinet is part of the foundation of the success of that world expo in Almere in 2022. You say you're willing to inform the Chamber annually about the progress of the Floriade. That's good. Is that including those projects and the finances to eventually achieve that government contribution that was ever promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u189	We have now given some sort of amount that can actually shape the Floriade. At the same time, we have said that we are also going to set up substantive projects there. That goes wider than my department. That is also true of all other colleagues. It aims to show innovative concepts. In doing so, we can also contribute to larger issues. In that letter we will discuss what these innovative concepts are. We are just developing these and there are still some steps to be taken. As I have now informed you about what we agreed with Almere on this point, I will also inform the Chamber about that progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u190	Including the finances on those projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u191	Yeah, that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u192	That was Mr Weverling. Then Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u193	Mr President, if I may, I have a few points to make and I will use them for all my interruptions. First a small correction, which is about an online platform where farmers can get knowledge. It's called bioknowledge.org. That's what I wanted to say for the record, because I was wrong about that. Then there is the second point, which I will come back to in the second term: the clubhouse story. You actually brought that back to a kind of platform where experience and knowledge are exchanged. There's nothing wrong with that, but that's different from what I meant with that clubhouse. That really is a trading model and a place where you can direct. I'll say something about that later. The third point is something I have not had a reaction to. I have made a detailed plea for chain initiatives. I noticed that in the budget, Article 11, but also in the reform of pig farming, where 40 million can be invested, which is limited to the stable and the primary farm. In order for circular agriculture to succeed, you really need support for initiatives that bring innovations to the market. I would like another response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mr De Groot has often asked that question. I'm kind of looking for it. Let me just mention a concept in which I think we have been very well able to shape and roll out it ourselves. That's the Better Life label. I assume that this is a chain concept that Mr De Groot could also be happy with in political terms. That's what I'm guessing. They have found their own ways. Let me put it this way: I think that is also entrepreneurship. You have an idea, you need others for that, you're gonna look and then you're gonna see how you can shape that. The government supports quite a lot, but some things we have to leave to the entrepreneurship of the people concerned. I really think that's serious. I do find it complicated to start supporting and facilitating chain concepts as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u195	Maybe the word is then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u196	Mr De Groot's seventh question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u197	It's confusing, because it's about chain stimulation and chain cooperation. The innovative farmer is an innovative farmer and there is his or her entrepreneurship. I mentioned yesterday the example of the Hamlets. There are all kinds of professionals involved. At some point in this case, a farmer has to make a logo herself to bring that beautifully renewed product to the market. That's where I think we're going wrong. If you want to do this right, you need to have parties that can develop and market these kinds of concepts professionally. That's not necessarily the farmer. But Better Life is a good example. That was indeed the case, but that was because there were professional parties involved who could think about how to sell a renewal in the stable. And that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u198	But then I really am looking a bit for what Mr De Groot is asking of me. Is he saying that in this case, I have to support a farmer who can hire a professional party to make such a logo? Isn't that about what every entrepreneur has to do every day? He just needs to shape his own marketing, he needs to... I also have people in my family who have new ideas. They'll start working on their own to get a logo. They see for themselves how they get a market for it and start doing so themselves. I think that is the essence of entrepreneurship. I really think it would go a long way if a government had to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u199	The very last question of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u200	If you do not support this, you will miss an essential link in the entire renewal program. Because farmers are often good entrepreneurs on their farms, but they are not necessarily good marketers. If you want to do that right, if you want to seduce a supermarket to do that, you really need professional support. But, yes, perhaps we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u201	I think so. The following is very distracted, but at the same time, of course, we have all kinds of initiatives in the context of unfair commercial practices. Farmers can also cooperate more with each other and things like that. Anyway... The digital clubhouse... In our clubhouses we do not exchange that often, but apart from that: in the clubhouses of course, parties can also find each other. On the contrary, we are going to ensure that parties can find each other and that they can exchange information with each other. In that way they might also be able to observe: hey, you have an idea in concept, that appeals to me, will we see together how we can move that forward? I really believe that this is the core of entrepreneurship, but that is where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u202	Finally, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u203	I wonder if that clubhouse has a hospitality license, too. This might help if one wants to come to an agreement with one another. But that's not what my question is about. Tonight I noticed that RVO apparently took off the message that a whole number of cattle farms of the week will be told that the re-evaluation of their farm will take longer. As a result, these companies will not be able to apply for the exemption scheme for this year. And that means a lot. I understand that the Minister must look into whether that is the case and what the consequences are of it, but in this interruption I ask the Minister whether this is true, what the consequences are and how we are going to solve it. Could the Minister please tell us about this next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u204	Then I really need to know a little bit more about that message. I find it complicated to say something about that now. I'll check it out. I'm hearing this now, but I'll take a look. And if that is the case, in the second term, I can tell you how we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u205	Fine. This brings us to the end of the reply from the cabinet. As far as I am concerned, we can proceed with the second term on the side of the Chamber, in which the Members of Parliament also table their motions. Then we'll suspend for a while, so the Minister can think about her response and her judgment on the motions. Then we can also end the second term of office. First of all, Mr Madlener has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems as if the Minister is soft in Brussels, and he is hard on our own farmers. We've had a debate. That is where we have come together when it comes to expressing the wrongs in the case of the unfortunates, but then it also ends. I don't think that's possible. The government can, of course, make a mistake, and it has done so in this case, but then it is also good for the government to say: we are going to fix it. Then you can say that it is difficult to deal with Brussels on a regular basis, but I think there is simply a moral duty. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to consult personally with the action group Innovative from the Knel to work together to find solutions to the many so-called problems in dairy farming caused by the introduction of the phosphate rights system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u207	I come to another issue that we have discussed, and here too, the government plays a dubious role: the fipronil crisis of the egg sector in the Netherlands. The government has also failed to do so. There is a report from the Sorgbrugger committee which shows this very clearly. But then it stays quiet again. The companies are stuck with the fried pears. There's still no compensation. It's all going very slowly. Here too, I believe that there is a duty for the government to make amends. And that's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government has dropped into the fipronil crisis;]] [[Whereas the fipronil crisis has led to the collapse of poultry holdings;]] [[noting that the Belgian Government has decided to compensate the poultry farmers affected by the fipronil crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a compensation scheme for poultry farmers affected by the fipronil crisis who were in good faith and did not intentionally apply fipronil in their stables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u208	Then the next motion, Mr. Chairman. It speaks for itself: supporting small farmers. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas farmers with few cattle per hectare do not contribute to a possible surplus of manure because they are allowed to use the manure on their own land;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt farmers who comply with the derogation standards from the phosphate rights system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u209	Finally, Mr President. My final motion concerns the hugely expensive manure disposal in the Netherlands. It causes a lot of problems in a lot of companies. This is a very unfriendly regime that the Netherlands itself has devised. That's very bad, and it needs to be solved. Manure is not a chemical waste, but manure is a raw material. It should not end up in groundwater, but as long as it does not, there is nothing wrong with it and we can simply export it abroad or use it ourselves, as intended. And that's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch farmers face high costs for their manure disposal, some of which are caused by specific Dutch regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to relax the rules on the transport and export of manure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u210	I was just thinking about the one-after-last motion submitted by the PVV Group. If I understand correctly, the PVV Group is now in favour of excluding dairy farmers who are land-bound from the phosphate rights system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u211	Yes, the motion speaks for itself. Dairy farmers who have enough land to use all their manure themselves and therefore do not have to dispose of anything should not, as far as we are concerned, be covered by the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u212	This would mean that, according to the legislation, they do not produce phosphate and that the space that will then be released could be used for companies that are not yet ground-bound. Is that the solution the PVV now advocates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u213	That's exactly what the motion says. Companies which do not produce more manure than they use themselves shall be exempted from this system. They are not being harassed by this very complicated administration as long as they can prove that they are using their manure themselves. The rest of those manure rules is your fabrication, not ours, so don't bother me with the question why the rules are so difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u214	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. Mr Graus has the floor, also on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The government requests the support it has promised and the budgetary commitment (33336), No. 73) to implement for Transition Animal-Free Innovation in cooperation with the ministries of OCW, VWS, EZK and lenW under the direction of the Ministry of LNV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u216	I think Mr Graus is talking pretty fast because of pressure of time. I didn't understand what the motion was about, so can he explain it briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u217	Yes. A certain commitment was made by the Minister during the AO Animal Tests. There it has been said that there would be more commitment and that the Minister agreed with it also from the other ministries I have just mentioned. I'm sorry to use abbreviations, but I have to, otherwise I won't have enough time. In fact, that commitment has not been fulfilled so far. You know what it's like: there's a small amount, a drop on a glowing plate, released by the LNV Ministry. That's not a big deal. I really want that commitment to be made that there will also be money and involvement from other ministries, because that is just what we have been promised. Moreover, the Ministry of LNV can't even do this at all. If there are so many ministries involved in animal testing, they must also move. It can't be that just this minister has to move; it doesn't work that way. Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u218	The answer to this question does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u219	No, thank you. At the next motion, Mr Wassenberg is my fellow fighter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Ministries of LNV and Justice and Security, to examine the possibility of revoking the ban on animal abuse in the Code of Criminal Law and clarifying vague animal welfare standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that an animal can no longer be impounded as an economic asset by bailiffs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Ministries of LNV and Justice and Security, to give clear content to animal protection law by laying down animal rights in legislation so that a judge can rely on normative principles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to place the Specialised Animal Welfare Team of the NVWA at the Ministry of Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to implement the stable fire prevention plan and Stable Safe as a matter of urgency to prevent barn fires and thousands of burnt animals per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-19]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-20]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-21]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u220	I have to add that the barn fire prevention plan came up following a motion from me in 2010 and that Stable Safe is about escape routes for animals. Mr. Chairman. There's animal law. A lot of it was written in the Animal Health and Welfare Act and later in the Animal Law, but we want it all to be completely transferred back to the Code of Criminal Law, for magical reasons that I cannot now explain again. The Minister also made promises, because of course I listened in all evening. Some of the motions I'm going to be making are likely to be held in a moment, but I'd like them to be a stick behind the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs Lodders has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u222	Mr. Chairman. I shall start quickly by thanking the Minister for his comprehensive reply, both in writing and orally this evening, especially in the circumstances in which she is in. I start by reading the two motions and then I have a few final words. My colleague will, of course, also be happy to have the floor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NVWA is involved in the formulation of policies and the formulation of policy rules and the interpretation of (European) standards;]] [[Whereas policy-making and policy-making belong to the various trade ministries and this policy constitutes the guidelines for the proper implementation of enforcement by NVWA;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for the NVWA to adopt an independent policy because it must confine itself to that which falls within its supervisory and enforcement functions;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify before 1 April 2019 whether the NVWA and/or the SAWA's Buro are involved in the formulation of policies and policies, and, if so, what steps are needed to bring the SAWA's Buro and NVWA's supervisory and enforcement tasks back;]] [[calls on the Government to further identify how the division of labour between policy and enforcement has been shaped in policy making and the formulation of policy rules and the interpretation of (European) standards, which should address the steps to be taken to clarify the division of roles between the trade ministries and the NVWA and to inform the Court of Justice on this matter before 1 April 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u223	Then the motion cost incentive NVWA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NVWA has no incentive to keep costs low in the cost structure and the transfer of these costs to the business community;]] [[noting that the set-up of tariffs for third parties is not transparent;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with proposals giving the NVWA a (financial) incentive to keep costs low and work as efficiently as possible, and to inform the Court in mid-2019 so that the results can be included in the next budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u224	Mr. Chairman. I'm assuming this was my three minutes. I would like to dwell very briefly on phosphate rights. There have been a number of interrupting debates. This is a very large subject that we should not really put away in a budget debate, so we would like to come back to that in another debate. Something is planned for the end of the year, and I will put my questions further there. Finally, one of the points I have made in detail: circular agriculture. Fortunately, there has also been a lot of debate on this today, because I think that should be at the heart of an agricultural budget where we are talking about a vision that we want to move towards 2030. I very much welcome the Minister's commitment. The motion I had, I won't file, because I'd like to look forward to the letter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u225	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I call Mr Weverling, also on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate change is making it increasingly hotter and wetter in cities;]] [[Whereas green provides oxygen, cooling, water buffering, the promotion of biodiversity and, in addition, the welfare of people;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with municipalities, provinces, nature organisations and young professionals, to come forward with proposals for smart solutions for more greenery in cities and villages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Groot and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u227	Then you can think of a contest, a hackathon or something. Make it something nice, I'd say. Then a motion on CRISPR-Cas9. This is an important subject for us, on which something has already been said in writing and orally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has been a leading player in the seed production sector for decades;]] [[noting that the European Court has decided not to allow CRISPR/Cas9 processing technology in Europe for the time being;]] [[noting that this is bad for the locational environment of the Netherlands and the European Union and that it is harmful to both economic and food supplies if this technique is not allowed;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the route to be followed, both in the Netherlands and in Europe, in order to enable CRISPR/Cas9 technology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Floriade 2022 will be an international platform for innovations in global themes such as climate and energy, food, agriculture, health, circularity and agriculture;]] [[noting that the content and innovative agenda of the Floriade is very much in line with the objectives of the cabinet on these issues;]] [[Whereas a covenant is being drawn up to maximise the use of the Floriade through innovation projects, both as showcase and as a testing ground for the innovation agendas of the various departments concerned;]] [[calls on the government to report to the Chamber on progress in the innovative projects and the corresponding state contributions well before the budgetary procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-26]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u229	Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u230	Mr. Chairman. Three motions from GroenLinks. The first one is about fertilizer. The Minister has indicated that she wants to reduce fertilizer. This motion is a support of the plan that she is going to make about manure policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is desirable to close the nutrient loops within agriculture;]] [[noting that raw materials need to be handled more efficiently from a biodiversity, climate and water point of view;]] [[noting that a large proportion of animal manure is exported abroad or is incinerated in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that it is possible to further reduce the use of fertilisers (and hence greenhouse gas emissions) through the use of fertilisers based on animal manure;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the use of (fertilizers based on) animal manure by introducing a levy on nitrogen fertiliser,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u231	Then a motion on nature management and protection of the Caribbean Netherlands and a shark action plan (HAP). [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch Government has a major formal and moral responsibility for the protection and management of the international top nature in the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the shark as a predator at the top of the marine food chain is an appealing indicator of ecosystem condition;]] [[Whereas more than 25 species of sharks swim in the Caribbean and the Netherlands, some of which appear on international red lists as endangered species;]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the Nature Management and Protection Act, the Cabinet is obliged to adopt a conservation policy plan for the Caribbean Netherlands every five years;]] [[noting that the last nature policy plan required by the Department of Nature Management and Protection Act BES has now expired for almost a year;]] [[noting that despite previous commitments, there is still no legal prohibition throughout the Caribbean Netherlands for finning, the horrific hunt for sharks for fins for the same-named soup;]] [[whereas, although the Netherlands has designated a shark reserve around the Sababank, it has no structural active protection policy;]] [[calls on the government to send a Shark Action Plan for the Caribbean Netherlands to the Chamber in the short term, including proposals for:]] [[research and monitoring of shark populations;]] [[enforcement and surveillance of illegal hunting of sharks;]] [[management measures aimed at limiting the (by-catch) of sharks by fishing;]] [[a legal ban on finning in the Fisheries Act BES, the capture of shark fins for the same-named soup, for the whole of the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[an ambitious international strategy to lead the region in strengthening the international protection of sharks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u232	The last motion by GroenLinks concerns the dairy farmers on Schiermonnikoog. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government, in its agricultural vision, is in favour of a circular agriculture;]] [[noting that dairy farmers at Schiermonnikoog, in collaboration with Natuurmonumenten and the municipality, started a project to reduce their number of cows as soon as possible, build their own cheese factory and take into account nature;]] [[Whereas this is a good example of circular farming in practice and such a transition is a complex process which, with the support of the Minister and its Ministry, can serve as a case for other initiatives;]] [[Whereas this project is a good example of the development of alternative earning models in circular agriculture in the Netherlands and that farmers on Schiermonnikoog deserve support in order to ensure that this progressive transition, appropriate within the government's agricultural vision, is successful;]] [[calls on the government to give its support to the plans of dairy farmers in Schiermonnikoog and, where necessary and possible, to support them in the further development of the plans, for example by concluding a green deal or other measures so that this project can be a success and serve as an example for circular agriculture in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u233	Then I just have some time left to thank the Minister for the pleasant answers. And I want to wish her a lot of happiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u234	Thank you. Mr Geurts has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions and a number of introductory words. In the first term, Mr Weverling asked me how I had experienced the Minister's letter on the horticultural agreement, the implementation agenda and such things. I indicated at that time that there were very good elements in the letter, which we should implement together with the Minister. But I have also indicated that if there are elements in it that we do not agree with, I will tell you tomorrow in the second term. Now it's getting exciting, Mr. Weverling, because I'm missing something in the letter, and that's Greenport Gelderland. And yet some concreteness of further steps. So let's ask the minister together to clarify the timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u236	Fantastic. That Greenport Gelderland is definitely one of them. That's the seventh, with all that lovely fruit growing and Lingewaard and all that. So I wholeheartedly support it, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u237	Thank you. Then we'll agree on that again, and I'll re-appoint the Wetland next time, colleague. In the written response to our debate last night, I read that an agri-business office was set up to deal with restrictive regulations. I believe that Mrs Lodders has once raised this issue here in a previous period. I have also read that it has been working for a year and that five bottlenecks have been reported. Then I had to think, because I also saw internal correspondence about an inventory that the Chamber of Economic Affairs has recently carried out. There was a lot of tight regulations in agriculture and horticulture reported to the Chambers Committee. I also checked to see if I could find the agro counter on the Internet. I hadn't found it after five minutes of searching, and that's really not because of my search capacity. So I ask the Minister whether she can improve the visibility of the agri-business window and whether she can indicate what these five bottlenecks were now, because I have become curious about this at once. Then I'll come to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of implementing the agricultural vision for soil management and plant health;]] [[Whereas good soil management is important for effective climate adaptation;]] [[Whereas large-scale housing removes agricultural land;]] [[calls on the Government to present as soon as possible an implementation agenda for improvement of soil management and plant health, use of fertilisers, including actions such as pilots and simplification of manure legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate funding opportunities for innovative and smart soil management in the context of climate adaptation, manure use and processing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Lodders and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u238	Then there's the motion on nature-inclusive cities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the increasing urbanisation and its impact on nature and biodiversity;]] [[considering the importance of liveable green cities;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with municipalities, provinces and nature organisations, to come forward with proposals for nature-inclusive cities for biodiversity, including the way of building, opportunities for more nature in existing neighbourhoods and the construction of green spaces in relation to the yet to be published National Environment Vision (NOVI) and the National Adaptation Strategy (NAS),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u239	Mr. Chairman. The final finishing words. There is nothing left for me but to thank the minister, the ministry staff and our own support, the support of the Chamber, for the work they have done again. I've noticed again that it's been night work for several people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u240	Thank you. Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also on my behalf, thank the Minister, and get well. She's coughing very dramatically right now. I would like to say to Mr Geurts that I have just Googled 'Agrostoppo' and that the first hit was 'Agrostoppo'. That, I believe, leads to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u242	We use the same system as Room, I think. That's what happened to me. But when I thought "let's see if I can also file a complaint" I found out that I couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u243	I didn't click on the forms; I admit that. I have two motions, because I lost a number of them during the Minister's reply. And that's a good sign. We'll discuss barn fires at a later date, if there's any additional information. Also the ruling on research opportunities was very clear not only for the University of Wageningen, but also for others who meet the requirement. So there are two motions left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a recent VGO study has once again demonstrated the link between goat farming and lung complaints in the environment;]] [[noting that a growing number of provinces have taken a stop on new goat stables, but others have not yet taken this step;]] [[Considering that these differences can lead to a waterbed effect where new stables will concentrate in the places where this can still be done;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with all provinces, to arrive at a national cover stop at new goat stables, at least until there is more certainty as to the cause of the link between goat farms and lung complaints,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u244	The second motion concerns the regional deals, a somewhat strange duck in the bite of this budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has decided to conclude regional deals for "wide prosperity";]] [[noting that some framework conditions have been set for these regional deals but that no clear objectives or other criteria have been set;]] [[Considers that when spending taxpayers' money in the context of accountability, the formulation of clear objectives is highly desirable and part of good governance;]] [[Considers that, when allocating grants to parties in the context of transparency, the establishment (pre-) of criteria to be met by applications is highly desirable and part of good governance;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter to the Court of Justice setting out clear objectives for the regional deals and clear criteria on which applications from municipalities are assessed before adopting the regional deals for the first tranche,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u245	The last thing I want to say is that I have often read the Minister's vision with a great deal of agreement. On the other hand, the fact that that vision is read with approval by so many people shows that it is open to interpretation. I think we saw this in the first term of the coalition, where small cracks seemed to appear. Those could be major fractures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u246	Thank you for your second-term contribution. Mr De Groot has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for her reply, including in her condition, but also thanks to the whole team behind it. There's a lot of hard work there. In that connection, I must say the following. This summer there was criticism from the official agricultural angle, not so much of the minister but of the officials. I just want to say from this place that that doesn't have a pass. There's only one responsible, and then you have to have the balls to talk to the minister. Thank you. You, Minister, have taken a very good look at circular agriculture and again: compliments on your note. I'm trying to think from here, and I'd like to give you three warnings that might undermine the note. The first is, we're already doing it. Now you hear very often from pig farming and the land-based dairy farming: "Yes, fine. We've been doing this for 5,000 years. That's a hell of a note. Let's get on with it." In part, that's true. Of course there are circles in our food production, but over the last 60 years there have been all kinds of elements that have led us to a production that is no longer entirely appropriate in the coming period. That's one. The second is a variant of "we're already doing it," that is to say, the rethinking of all kinds of things and of projects that are already running. "We are going through that, because they are already in the budget and we now call it circular agricultural projects." Those are the emperor's new clothes, and I'd like to give this to the minister. The third is non-committal. I can see in the Minister's reaction that sometimes there are still... I absolutely believe in her intention, but we really must be careful that this is not a non-binding journey. And then four discussions came back. I presented that clubhouse yesterday, or that platform or whatever you call it, where you come together to do real business with each other. I'm just gonna call it that. That's more than an exchange of knowledge. There were four elements: knowledge, rules, market organization and money. Knowledge. The Minister said that in the top sectors and the new strategic knowledge and innovation agenda, circular agriculture is recognizable. I am going to go a step further and say to the Minister: it is at the heart of that approach. Rules. We have had a discussion about the experimental law, but from this side I give the Minister the following. In 1957, the same Mansholt introduced an agricultural law. It was actually a very simple law that actually gave the minister a lot of possibilities. It was a successor to the 1933 Crisis Act to act in situations we didn't know yet, which were not known at that time. So maybe that's how it's possible. Then we also talked about the market organization. In doing so, we have had a discussion about chain concepts and I do not think we have had the last discussion about them. It's really the linking pin, the missing link. If we don't make it, there won't be a earning model for the farmer and the whole story won't get off the ground. Finally, I would like to have a clear statement from the Minister on European agricultural policy. We have already made a commitment to climate change, but I would have liked to have mentioned circular agriculture in one breath. Directed. That's the point, Mr. Chairman. And that's why I'm going to move on to the motions, because it's allowed even more. The minister is the director, but the picture must also be clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considering the ambition to make the Netherlands the leader in circular agriculture;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have many instruments at their disposal, such as regulation, financial resources, market organisation and knowledge;]] [[considers that the public authorities should use all these instruments in a coherent way to accelerate the transition;]] [[Whereas a transition only succeeds if consistent management is conducted over a longer period of time;]] [[calls on the government to take a strong lead on the transition to circular agriculture;]] [[invites the Commission to present a detailed proposal, including concrete measures, as soon as possible and before May 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u248	Then the motion standard circular agriculture. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet announced a change to circular agriculture;]] [[Whereas target requirements should allow for individual differences at company level;]] [[noting the lack of a clear standard of recycling efficiency at company level;]] [[Whereas innovations in feed, manure and soil are key elements in achieving circular efficiency at farm level;]] [[Finding that the Committee of Experts on Fertilisers Act (CDM) is currently conducting an investigation for a pilot company-specific accountability as requested in the Geurts c.s. motion. (33037, No. 293);]] [[calls on the government to include "business-specific accountability" in the study on how to set a standard for recycling efficiency at company level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot, Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u249	Actually the previous motion, because I very much agree with D66 that there should be direction, but I am very curious what D66 means by that. I remember an earlier situation where there was, for example, a very high mortality in goat farming, among the goats. At that time we agreed that the government, that the minister had to intervene, but D66 meant that the minister was going to ask the sector for a plan. So I would very much like to support this motion, because I agree that there should be a direction, but not if we have to hear for another year that D66 has asked for direction, which ultimately amounts to the same game, namely that the Minister is going to ask the sector for work plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u250	I have really focused my contribution on thinking as best as possible with the note as a starting point about what process you can now set up with the minister at the head, with the minister in charge, to really turn this good thought into deeds, which are ultimately good for the farmer and for the earth. That is what I have focused my contribution on, and this motion is also aimed at. In doing so, we would like to thank the Minister from the Chamber for your intention to support that motion and to give a broad mandate and a mandate to do so. I have been very specific about the way in which. That's more than just a platform, like the minister said. That really needs to be worked with a daily intention by many, who also do this for the minister, with the commitment of all the rules that there are, all the money that there is and all the organization of the market that you can afford. In this way, D66 sees itself to make this note a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u251	Mr De Groot continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u252	Mr. Chairman. In view of the time I allow myself to read only the operative part of the next motion. Or may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u253	No, you can't. You must read the entire motion in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u254	Okay, I'll do that. It's a long motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the UNESCO Wadden Sea World Heritage still deserves special attention in the area of improvement of nature and transitions towards sustainable (economic) co-use and the social importance associated with it;]] [[Considering that the Ministry of LNV closed a Covenant transition mussel sector and nature restoration Wadden Sea in 2008;]] [[Whereas joint sponsors of the Programme to a Rich Wadden Sea, as a result of the Covenant, have drawn up a compact new programme plan for the period 2019-2022, the funding of which is not yet complete;]] [[Whereas the Government has the ambition to take until 2050 measures necessary to achieve future-proof large waters with high quality nature;]] [[Whereas, according to the government agreement, the government considers good fish management in the Wadden Sea to be important;]] [[Whereas the action plan for Broedvogels Wadden Sea and Swimways Wadden Sea are the concrete effects of trilateral agreements for the Dutch Wadden Sea;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine with other parties involved in the Wadden Sea how the necessary budget can be made available within the existing frameworks for the full implementation of the developed programme plan "Programme towards a Rich Wadden Sea 2019-2022: Wad Vervikig" and to report on this to the Chamber for the Spring Note as well as on the co-financing required for the implementation of the additional measures set out in the Action Plan for Brudvogels Wadden Sea and Swimways Wadden Sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u255	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to make a point in connection with the Leve de Noordzee initiative paper, which has been dealt with in this Chamber. The most important motion has actually already been adopted, the motion on the one Commissioner for the North Sea. The North Sea is the Netherlands two and a half times, but we actually do not have good governance for it to date. In addition, we have said together that we need a transition fund. I am defending the motion tabled by Mr Geurts together with Mr Sienot. Let's get smarter with the North Sea. Look at co-use by fishermen, but also smart for food production and nature. That's what the Geurts motion is about that's been arrested. Then there are two more motions that are about the smart decorating if you are going to build wind farms: ensure good co-use. Those motions have been modified and distributed. I would like to ask the Minister, who is aware, to give an opinion on these three motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u256	These motions belong to file number 34526 and it concerns the documents Nos. 6, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u257	The motion Sienot/De Groot (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement sets out ambitious plans for the roll-out of wind at sea;]] [[Whereas certain types of fisheries and natural development are currently also possible and take place in wind farms;]] [[Whereas requirements may be laid down for the co-use of wind farms for nature, food production and fisheries;]] [[noting that new wind farms can in practice pay greater attention to co-use and nature;]] [[calls on the Government, in the Strategic Agenda for the North Sea 2030, to consider the multiple use of wind farms and to adapt its policies in such a way as to introduce provisions for the construction of wind farms to enable nature, fisheries and food production to benefit from the construction of new wind farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 7 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u258	The motion Sienot/De Groot (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the North Sea region will change significantly over the coming decades;]] [[Whereas this could have adverse effects on nature and fisheries;]] [[Whereas the restoration of biogenic reefs is an objective in several national notes, including the updating of Part 1 of the Marine Strategy, The North Sea 2050 Area Agenda and the Implementation Agenda Natural Capital;]] [[noting that recent developments have made it possible to place artificial oyster banks;]] [[Whereas oyster banks boost biodiversity;]] [[calls on the Government, in the Strategic Agenda for the North Sea 2030, to address the issue of the restoration of oyster banks and other biogenic reefs in the construction and installation of wind farms and to adapt the policy in such a way as to facilitate the restoration of oyster banks and other biogenic reefs in the construction and installation of wind farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 8 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u259	Well, I have more of an announcement. The motion to which Mr de Groot just referred, the Geurts/Sienot motion in part No. 6, is also going to be put to the vote. That's what we asked for tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u260	Yes, and the same goes for the other two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u261	I understand that, but you are asking for a new ruling from the Minister in the second term and the motions will be put to the vote with the other motions. I think that's the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u262	It was three motions, all three of which were apprehended. Two motions have been changed and not the one, but we would have stopped them. I would now like to inform colleagues and also the Minister that it has now been released for vote as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u263	Yes, and I would also like the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u264	Yeah, that's fine. Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Mr Moorlag has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and wish her a speedy recovery, so that she will soon be able to roll out the concept of circular agriculture with full energy. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Agricultural, Nature and Food Document: Valuable and Connected gave the Cabinet a vision for a better Dutch agricultural sector in 2030;]] [[Considers that concrete plans with targets and intermediate targets are needed to make a real transition to circular agriculture;]] [[Considering the need to provide security for both farmers and financiers on the changes needed in agriculture in the short and long term due to high investment within agriculture;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop a long-term plan with the entire chain of agricultural and social parties, the food industry, retail and financial-economic parties that will ensure the necessary transition to circular agriculture even after this government period, and to report to the Chamber before the summer of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u266	Then it's about food waste. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the disposal of good food in shops and restaurants is harmful and costly for consumers and society;]] [[Whereas the Court has broadly endorsed the desire to reduce food waste;]] [[calls on the government to step up efforts to reduce food waste and to significantly reduce the disposal of good food in retail and catering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many farmers will end their farms in the coming years;]] [[Whereas this provides the opportunity for a gentle clean-up of parts of the livestock, which contributes to reducing environmental pressure and reducing the pressure on the environment for other entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to take more active action to ensure a smooth clean-up and to contribute, with greater use of the Space Regulation, to improving the quality of life and combating rural decay;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Bromet, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u268	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Then the next speaker is Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for all the answers to the questions that have been asked. Many commitments have also been made. I'll start with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the (often too long) chain of food production, the supermarket is the place where most people buy a large proportion of their food;]] [[noting that our own farmers and growers supply beautiful products of good quality;]] [[Whereas local and regional products in shopping are important for the connection of urban and rural areas and the appreciation of farmers and gardeners;]] [[Whereas the supermarket can play a binding role between farmers and citizens;]] [[Whereas research carried out by the Food Centre shows that a healthy meal from the region and with the seasons is sustainable and cheaper;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the supermarkets and the agricultural sector to agree on a broad introduction of regional products into shopping;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for supporting regional product chains and what contribution (e.g. organisational or financial) municipalities, supermarkets and other parties can make to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u270	My second motion concerns multifunctional agriculture. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 25% of farmers are engaged in multifunctional farming, that this number is growing and that there is a real potential for growth;]] [[noting that in 2015 the Agricultural Think Tank started in Connection, but it did not get off the ground enough;]] [[noting that there are still many regulatory and collective agreements and that municipalities are not sufficiently familiar with the possibilities;]] [[Whereas the WUR will carry out research into the structural and turnover development of multifunctional agriculture in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas multifunctional agriculture is an important link between farmers and citizens;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the agricultural sector, to establish a Platform for Multifunctional Agriculture and to identify and remove restrictive legislation and regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with municipalities on appropriate and more harmonised spatial planning policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight there has also been a lot of discussion about the vision of circular agriculture. I have already indicated: that is a wonderful vision, in which the initiative lies with the Minister, but now it is important that we carry out this vision together. This is not only the responsibility of the Minister, but also the responsibility of the Chamber, of the agricultural sector and of all the other parties involved in our food. I asked the Minister whether she would like to give a place to farmers who are already working on this in practice when drawing up the vision. We do not need to start over; we can really continue on what has already been realized, so that we can also take steps for scaling up as soon as possible. The Minister said a few things about this, and I would like to emphasise that. I wish her every success in the further development of the vision. And I wish her well, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u273	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have good news. I know that a number of people here in the room are always waiting a lot for me to say something nice, so I thought: that's what I'm starting with. It's not even 24:00, which means it's still November 1st. And that means it's still World Vegan Day. Yes, I do. That is the day when it is celebrated that we can feed everyone in the world now and later when we start eating vegetable or vegetable food. That's wonderful news, folks, if we actually have quite a big problem of getting the hunger out of the world. So that's good news. Unfortunately, Mr Bishop is not here this evening to continue the debate. He was a little surprised yesterday at the optimism of the Party for Animals that people really switch to a more plant-based diet. And I would have pleased him now by saying that his beloved Israel is ahead of us and has even taken off a tweet today, a proud tweet; pride, Israel. The country is proud of its own agriculture in which a lot of vegetable proteins are grown. And it's being eaten there, too. Israel, Tel Aviv, is the capital of the world when it comes to the number of people who eat vegetable food. Nowhere do so many people per capita do so as in Tel Aviv. So I thought: the people who were so surprised yesterday at the SGP and the VVD, I'm sure they'd like to hear how hopeful that perspective is. If we look a little closer to home, we can see that in Germany, an important market for the Netherlands, the growth rates of replacements of meat and dairy are up to 25%, 26%, every year. So there is a good and healthy perspective, in which we solve incredibly many problems at one stroke: animal welfare, climate, nature, hunger in the world. Let's cherish this moment, because it's possible. But Mrs. Lodders doesn't agree, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u274	You don't know that yet. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u275	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I thought: let me make a positive interruption towards Mrs Ouwehand. Let me say, then, that we may not have reached agreement on livestock farming on this particular day, at least for you, but let us agree that our crops, our horticulture and our fruit growing can make a very important contribution to the export, throughout the world, of these people to feed them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u276	Well, the whole world doesn't seem necessary. I think we'll do the very best if we do it regionally, but I didn't mention Germany for nothing. I think we can export quite a few things, but the organisation of our agriculture must be based on the principles: what is the most sustainable, how can we offer farmers a good sandwich and what food pattern, and therefore what food production, best fits with keeping this planet sustainable and liveable and feeding the world? So there are hopeful prospects for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u277	Mrs Ouwehand has made a really good attempt to speak positive words. Really, thank you for that. I invite you to dinner together. You decide the appetizer and I decide the main course. Deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u278	I have received this question before, in a double interview with the praiseless magazine de Boerderij. We couldn't get out, because no way I'm gonna eat a piece of meat from an animal that didn't want to die. That's the way it is. If Mr. Geurts is going to eat vegetable with me in one of the best vegan restaurants in the Netherlands that also come as mushrooms from the ground. Then we have a nice evening. But I'm not going to eat it if Mr. Geurts presents me meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u279	This isn't going to be a political marriage, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u280	No, we're still not here. But I can tell you something else. The minister just referred to my visit to New York. I was at the United Nations last week. There I said all these things, again, to people who did and people who didn't want to hear it. And who did I run into? Mrs. Annie Schreijer-Pierik. We know her. She was the spokesman for the CDA Group and we know that she has a background in pig farming. She came to me and she said, "Esther, what do you think? My granddaughter is a vegetarian." That girl is 13 years old and her name is Sara. I talked to her for a moment and she said, "It's a little tricky, with a grandfather who's a pig farmer and a hunter. But yeah, I don't want to. I was eating a piece of meat, I looked at my dog and I thought, "Why do I eat that cow when I wouldn't do that to the dog?" The girl doesn't eat meat anymore. So, folks, it's possible, even if you're from a pig farmer's family.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u281	Mr President, after this I will stop. I think that Annie Schreijer, my honourable colleague from the European Parliament, has probably said that wisdom comes with years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u282	She was very proud of her granddaughter; that's the fun. Of course, your granddaughter can never do anything wrong in Grandpa and Grandma's eyes. So, Sara, put it on. I can't start more positive than this; so on the late evening a happy sound. Mr. Chairman. Nor is there a lack of hope in the Minister's note. I also said in the first term that we naturally welcome the recognition of the problems, that it is stuck in agriculture and that it has to be changed. But you know me, I'm not just stuck in happy mode. It's about time we did it. Because those views were already there by Jozias van Aartsen, by Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, even by Gerda Verburg, by Martijn van Dam and now by Carola Schouten. What agriculture has been looking for for years now is someone who is actually going to run on the basis of the route that has long and broad been set out. A few weeks ago Greta Thunberg was here, that 15-year-old girl from Sweden who started a global climate strike: action for the climate! She says: politicians refuse to do what is necessary to protect my generation. She was standing right here, right where I am right now. But it was Friday, so there was no one to listen to her. So I'm just gonna say what she's saying right now. She says, "Some people say to you that you need to study a little more to solve the climate crisis. But that's just not true! We already know how to do it and what needs to be done. The point is, we're gonna do it, too. And our leaders behave like little children, while they have the responsibility to secure the future for future generations like mine. We know what to do." Mr. Chairman. I really want to warn the minister, because I wouldn't let her. There have been previous rulers who, while they were at the helm, knew what was going on but did not have the guts to move on and then gave in: yes, that livestock farming has been flooded; the intensive livestock farming probably has no future anymore. Then you need to clean up. Wouter Bos about the care the other day: I knew it, I didn't do it. Even Jan Peter Balkenende, who here in the Chamber was still selling the VOC mentality actually a little bit the robbing of the world... now comes to offer petitions with books by Kate Raworth, who pleads for a Donut economy, an economy within the limits of the earth. Yeah, would have done that as Prime Minister, for Christ's sake! I have the feeling that this Minister is simply much more conscientious and that she is remorseful when she says afterward: ai, I should have done so differently. So do it now, is our appeal, and say goodbye to the approach that has long proven itself in a negative sense. The sector is the sector! LTO says we won it in that circular vision, we won it at the climate tables. And they'd already won it in the coalition agreement. Didn't you learn anything from the phosphate drama? If you still believed that the sector could manage it all well itself, that was the time to say: okay, from now on really not anymore. There is a need for direction, and I very much agree with Mr De Groot, but I really do. Can the Minister promise that she'll get to work and that LTO doesn't have a big finger in her mouth? I'm not saying it because the Party for Animals happens to be a caterpillar-never-enough. It is so urgent that delay, delay, simply leads to more pressure. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions to make sure we get to work as soon as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the second purple cabinet stated in 2000 that agriculture in ten years, i.e. in 2010:]] [[take full account of human, animal and ecosystem safety and health;]] [[would fully comply with applicable environmental legislation;]] [[have a biological share of 10% of the agricultural area;]] [[noting that the aim was also to reduce livestock farming by 2010, with a total reduction in livestock, reduced environmental burden and improved animal welfare;]] [[noting that these targets were still far from achieved eight years after the deadline set;]] [[calls on the government to clarify how these objectives can be achieved as quickly as possible in the development of the vision of circular agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pig rights purchased in the planned reform of pig farming in Brabant are withdrawn from the market, but that the area of manure production is maintained;]] [[Considers that if 200 million is spent on tax money to clean up livestock farming, manure production and its consequences for residents, the environment, nature and the environment cannot remain as high as before the clean-up;]] [[calls on the government to also reduce the phosphate ceiling for the pig sector in the planned warm restructuring of pig farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-43]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u283	Mr. Chairman. In a debate with the Minister for the Interior, I tabled two motions. She then referred me to this minister. I have the numbers and the motions here. I would like to hand these motions over to the Minister and I would like to ask her if she will respond to them. They've already been filed, but I've been referred to this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u284	It is about the motions on the items Nos. 29 and 30 (35000-VII).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u285	Yeah, fine. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Another good initiative on Schiermonnikoog. Mrs. Bromet already talked about it. I, too, have a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure considers a shrinkage of livestock to be inevitable;]] [[noting that dairy farmers on Schiermonnikoog want to reduce their livestock by 35% by 2020 on a voluntary basis;]] [[calls on the government to remove phosphate rights from the market resulting from the voluntary shrinkage of the dairy herd on Schiermonnikoog,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u286	Mr. Chairman. Then the vegetable protein. The Minister was right to say that we need to look at food for animals; if that food can also be used for human consumption, it is undesirable. I believe that this should also apply to crops, especially when one of the largest Dutch producers of vegetable meat substitutes, Vivera, gets its raw materials from North America, because there are insufficient plant proteins of good quality in the Netherlands and Europe. That's a shame, isn't it? We could use our ground for that, we would think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the market for plant proteins has grown significantly in Europe and the United States in recent years and that demand for alternatives to animal proteins based on soya, lupine, peas, oats and chickpeas is rising rapidly;]] [[having noted that large producers of meat substitutes extract their protein crops from North America and France, inter alia, because they are not grown or not grown sufficiently in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that some 110,000 hectares of the Dutch agricultural area are used for the cultivation of cereals for animal feed;]] [[calls on the government not to miss the opportunity to grow plant proteins for human consumption in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a scenario for converting the hectares of agricultural land currently used for the production of animal feed into protein crops for human consumption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u287	Mr. Chairman. Then the animals. The animals have been waiting much and much and far too long. I see that even these few minutes Mr De Groot finds it too much trouble to listen for the animals, because he is being a little irritated. I can say that since the Note Animal Welfare...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u288	I was thinking about your previous motion. Every time I thought, "Hey, interesting, interesting, interesting," but when it comes to the role that the government has to play, I thought, "What fields should the minister point out?" I just had a question about that, so I was working on your input and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u289	Excuse me. I saw annoyed gestures, and I linked that to the argument about the animals I'm going to keep. I apologize. Mr. Chairman. The animals have been waiting far too long. It was Mr De Groot there that I would like to give him the credits for the debt, which indeed wrote the note for Minister Brinkhorst in the second purple cabinet, supported by the VVD. But it's been a while. In the meantime, we have moved on to nearly 10 billion animals and the animal husbandry situation has not improved. I do not think that we can make that anymore in front of the animals, but you can also see that society is very upset about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that both the second purple cabinet and the cabinet-Balkenende IV, in which all the current coalition parties took part, set the objective of allowing the animal's perspective and the type of behaviour to be guiding the establishment of stables in the management of livestock by 2022;]] [[noting that this objective is still far from being achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify in the development of the circular note how the objective of allowing the animal's perspective and its own behaviour to be guiding is actually achieved in 2022 and to send concrete plans to the Chamber in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u290	Now I am annoyed, because you have said a few times that Mr De Groot wrote the note, but that was Mr Brinkhorst. I want to make that very clear. It's the minister who writes notes. In addition, you are suggesting that nothing has happened at all. It was the same Minister Brinkhorst, who at that time, under Purple II, reduced the number of pigs. The same minister earlier allowed the European ban on the battery to enter the Netherlands and made the first proposal to stop fur farming. The suggestion you have made that nothing has happened is far from my point of view. I do not think it is entirely up to you to decide what you said yesterday. You take the measure of others in a way that puts people who, as you say, eat dead animals in a different way than people who feed in a different way. I don't think you can put yourself above others in that way. I'm not going to appeal to you either, to your flight behaviour, where you go to New York to tell them to use less plastic cups, or even to the flying behaviour of the Party for Animals. You can't hear me about that. I think we can eat a year of meat from what you all fly away, both business and private. Look, I can say a lot about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u291	Okay, the point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u292	All I'm wondering is how many miles you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u293	In my view, Mr De Groot has just mentioned my choice to get on a plane to go to the UN and do animal rights activists' work there. That's right. Yesterday it was about Mr De Groot's accusation to me that I would not achieve anything for animal welfare. In response, I said: I don't think I eat animals. However you turn or turn it, it is better for animal welfare or for eating animals. Because an animal doesn't want to die and it's not cozy in the slaughterhouse. Even if in theory an animal may have had a reasonable life, which is only marginal in the Netherlands, killing an animal that does not want to die is always an act that is not animal-friendly. That's what it was about. Mr De Groot now wants to make himself big and say: with that you are standing above someone else. I got kicked in the face for not doing anything for animals. In that comparison, I just said: I don't think I eat animals, and you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u294	One last comment because I believe it's a holiday today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u295	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u296	I don't want to ruin that holiday, but the point of the remark was, of course, that if you want to do something for animals, you have to work with people and not stand on the sidelines. That's what you do. If your only contribution is for the animals not to eat them, then you do not necessarily have to sit in the Chamber for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u297	Mr De Groot is trying to sell the frame that I should be on the sidelines, but the Animal Party is constantly making proposals that D66 can simply support. In fact, the Party for Animals makes proposals that D66 itself came up with years ago. I'm not on earth to come up with any new ideas. I find that far too tiring. Things have been promised for the animals a long time. They were really nice words in Mr Brinkhorst's note. I apologize for giving you the credits, but I understand that you are just open to that in the public debate too, by saying 'I wrote that note'. If that's not the intention, I'll put it differently from now on. I thought I was doing you a favor. But we are making all kinds of proposals that come out of the D66 case, which Mr De Groot is part of. You can simply support these proposals. That's not staying on the sidelines. That's to see if people can keep their own promises a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u298	Good. You still have motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u299	Yeah, I still have motions. Sure. Then let's do a test case on the piglets' mortality. Things have changed, yes. There's gonna be a mink breeding ban, yeah. Yeah, the battery's been abolished. But I also showed you pictures of a chicken that fell off the truck near the slaughterhouse yesterday. The entire lower body of that chicken is inflamed and there are painful ulcers on the legs of that animal. I had a little debate with the Minister today. If we calculate equally quickly, 25 million animals per year will not come alive from the stables where those chickens are kept. They were created there. The Minister has confirmed that there is no need for a veterinarian to give individual care to animals with which it is so bad that they die in the stable. That is the reality that animals still have to live in today, and it is shameful that we allow it. Mr. Chairman. A number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Minister Verburg concluded almost ten years ago that the piglets' mortality rate (then 12.9%) was too high and subsequently called on the sector to reduce mortality to up to 10.5% by 2018;]] [[noting that the piglets' mortality has increased since then and that more piglets are still dying than the then government said unacceptable;]] [[Considering that the VVD-PvdA government, through State Secretary Van Dam in 2016, stated that there should be an end to increasing the number of piglets per throw and that piglets should be able to drink from their own mother;]] [[noting that Minister Schouten also states that it is not acceptable if we fail to meet the agreed objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare legislation to ensure and effectively reduce the targets of piglets mortality, based on the principle that piglets should be able to drink from their own mother,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u300	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet claims to assume that the livestock sector has nothing to hide;]] [[noting that the information and communication of both the sector itself and the government is not a complete or completely clear representation of what is happening to animals in the meat, dairy and egg chains;]] [[calls on the Government to propose greater and effective transparency on the life and death of animals in the meat, dairy and egg chains,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u301	I am using my last half minute to say that this motion was tabled earlier, but dismissed by Secretary of State Van Dam. This was adopted, also by D66. We have just spoken with the Minister about the poultry chain and we have asked for simple registrations so that we can know how many animals really die in that stable. My guess from before, 25 million, is a wild guess, because I can't control it completely. If we can't even know that, if we can't even check that, then there is no real transparency, so this motion is going into a new round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u302	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand just mentioned Mr Bishop's name. He apologized for the second term. The last speaker is Mr Wassenberg, also on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With any luck, I'll be ready just before midnight. After this exciting quarter of an hour, I would like to inform you that I only have five minutes and eight motions, so no time for views, but time to wish the Minister a little happiness. My first motion is on behalf of fellow animal friend Graus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the original Fairfok plan of the rash-dog sector initially stated that "dog breeding is an animal-friendly and responsible sector by 2018 and is also known as such';]] [[noting that according to the recent Animal Welfare Policy Letter of the Minister of LNV in the rash breeding company "slowly a change in thinking seems to have started";]] [[whereas this shows that the original objective has not been achieved in any way;]] [[Considering that the rashes sector has thereby given itself a licence of inability to improve the well-being of rashes;]] [[calls on the Government to take matters into its own hands and to draw up legal rules to improve the health of dogs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many rashes or lookalikes become ill or have poor well-being due to a sickening appearance;]] [[noting that the Minister of LNV leaves an improvement in the well-being of rashes to the Board of Management of Kynology in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that only a minority of breeders in the Netherlands are members of this umbrella organisation;]] [[Whereas rules to improve the well-being of dogs should apply to every breeder in the Netherlands, irrespective of whether this member is a member of an association;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the well-being of all dogs by establishing rules of its own that prevent breeding from extreme external characteristics and limit all forms of inbreeding, and to ensure that these rules apply to all breeders, whether or not they are members of a rash-dog association,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the 2015 Facts and Figures Pet Sector report shows that thousands of animals are traded per week on online platforms such as Marketplace, Spearders and Facebook;]] [[noting that public policy focuses on consumer information and responsibility and self-regulation by Marktplaats;]] [[Considering, for example, that, according to criminalists with their ads, rogue dog dealers explicitly target the informed consumer by mimicking a domestic environment where a so-called "mother dog" is on the loose;]] [[Whereas this does not constitute an effective method for informing consumers about the sale of animals;]] [[Whereas the passport requirement for dogs will not be able to contribute sufficiently to the fight against criminal trafficking when traders are given all the space to place unimpeded and unlimited advertisements and to contact consumers through intermediaries such as Marktplaats and Facebook;]] [[noting that research shows that discussions with Marktplaats have not led to significant improvements in recent years, and Facebook simply allows the sale of animals, despite its own community guidelines;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit trade in animals through online sales and auction websites and social media,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that public funding for animal testing is not publicly available;]] [[calls on the Government to make public how much public funding is allocated to animal testing annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for more than 15 years the Dutch government has been testing medical measures against nerve gases on experimental animals;]] [[calls on the Government to end these tests on experimental animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, at the end of last year, the National Advisory Committee on Animal Health (NCad) asked the Cabinet to set out a target for reducing the use of animals by research area;]] [[noting the lack of this target in the recent opinion of the Animal Affairs Council on animal testing;]] [[calls on the Government to set a target for reducing the use of animals for (intensive) livestock farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-50]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-53]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-54]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u304	Two more, Mr. President! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in March 2018 the Animal Affairs Council (RDA) called on the government to pay more attention to and take into account the well-being of fish;]] [[noting that the RDA states that there is broad agreement that fish are sentient beings and that this entails a duty of care for society;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt as soon as possible the recommendations contained in the report on fish welfare by the Animal Affairs Council and to translate them into policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in many cases fish are still slaughtered unintoxicated;]] [[Considering that, according to the Animal Affairs Council (RDA), there is now broad agreement that fish are sentient beings and that this entails a duty of care for society;]] [[noting that there is already a high level of good practice in stunning methods and that additional studies are currently under way for stunning methods on board vessels, which will be completed by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to make compulsory the stunning of fish for slaughter legally mandatory by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-56]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u305	And three seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u306	Exactly. We now live 46 seconds on Friday 2 November. 45 motions have been tabled. The Minister was also asked to give her opinion on two amended motions and on a motion that had been held. There will be a suspension, but I would like to mention that there is also a request for an opinion on two motions submitted to another budget chapter. There is one further amendment on which we are also expecting an opinion, and that is the amendment on item No. 10. The amendment in part No. 9 has been dissuaded from all judgment. I am now suspending for 20 minutes so that the Minister can prepare for her assessment of all the motions and one amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u307	The next item is the second government term in the debate on the LNV budget. I would like to give the floor to the Minister, but only after I have said that I will allow a maximum of one comment by the author per motion. We were up to 3.05 hours last night, and I really want to avoid that today. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u308	I'll try to keep up the pace, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 13, I advise. The motion in part No. Fourteen I advise. The motion in part No. 15 I also advise against. The motion in part No. Sixteen, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 17 is unnecessary, because I have already promised. And in case of unnecessary motions, I won't leave the verdict to the Chamber, so I advise against it. I'm sure I'll say that as a profit warning to some other members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u309	That's kind of refreshing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u310	Yes. The motion in part No. 18, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 19 is also superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u311	Hey, those are my motions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u312	The Minister continues her speech. She was at the motion in part no. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u313	Yes, at the motion in part No. 19 I think I have just made a commitment towards Mr Graus. I've indicated that we've just had a legislative proposal on this subject. That's why the motion is unnecessary, so I'm gonna dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. 20. An evaluation will be carried out on this point next year. Then we will also look at the effectiveness and impact of the animal welfare provisions. In that light, I would ask that this motion be retained and that we wait for the evaluation, and that we do not anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u314	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna go pack my things and I'm gonna leave. In fact, I think that in recent months I have not been able to get a dent in a package of butter. I've always been right on everything I've predicted here. And I've always given the benefit of the doubt. But now everything's being wiped away like this. I'm getting everything out of practice. Everything. I'm working my ass off. I'm doing work visits. I hear everything from people at the front, including people who work for the minister. And if everything gets wiped away every time, it's no use anymore. I will not be taking part in the debates either. Then I'll wait for another government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u315	Thank you, Mr. Graus. There was one question about the motion in part No. 20, but I see you're leaving the room. Then the Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u316	Well, I think this is a pity, because I really think I made Mr Graus a few promises. He will not experience that as such, but I have tried to listen, and to do justice to his input. Anyway, he's going to make the motion in part no. No more arresting 20, so I'm gonna dissuade that motion. The motion in part No. Twenty-one, I'm telling you, too. Then the motion to part No. 22. With regard to the barn fire prevention plan, I have indicated that I am really going to take that up with urgency. But this motion also calls for the rapid introduction of Stable Safe. I have indicated that I cannot undertake to do so, because that is a choice. So on that basis, I advise against the motion, but it remains that I feel the urgency regarding the barn fire prevention plan. I have indicated that I want this to be implemented quickly. On the motion in part No. 23 I have indicated that this will be discussed in the debate with the Sorgblader committee. I would therefore ask Mrs Lodders whether she can keep it until we send the answer to the recommendations of the Sorgblader committee to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u317	Yes, I think we already had a similar interrupting debate, so I will hold this motion until we have the debate on the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u318	At the request of Mrs Lodders, I propose her motion (35000-XIV, No. 23). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u319	Yes. The judgment on the motion in part No. 24 I could leave it to the Chamber, provided the applicant supports that the results of the ADR studies I have mentioned are leading or not making proposals. That's exactly what we've been putting the routes on. I want the results of the ADR study to be guiding and determining how we make these proposals. If I could explain the motion like that, I could give her "judgment chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u320	I think that would be wise, especially since the Chamber has indicated that it would like to respond to the Minister's question; we will. That will probably happen within a week or a week and a half, because it is on the agenda of the procedural meeting. We'll add it to the research questions. So it makes sense to involve it in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u321	Okay. The motion in part No. 25 can get "judge chamber." The motion in part No. 26 is about something I just promised. As indicated, the motion is then superfluous and unnecessary motions I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u322	I suggest I hold this motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u323	At the request of Mr Weverling, I propose his motion (35000-XIV, No. 26). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u324	The same applies to the motion in part No. 27. This is just a commitment I just made. If I have made a commitment, I do not need to get the question again in a motion, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 28. Let me put it this way. We have just started a system to look at manure legislation. I have indicated that we are going into a path to shape the vision. Now asking for a levy on nitrogen fertilizer is going too fast, but I would like to include this as an option in the options that are likely to come up with what we can do to shape circular agriculture. If I can explain the motion in such a way that it is an option that we are simply taking along the whole route we are going to go through, she can get a "judgment Chamber," but I would ask Mrs Bromet to change the motion by replacing the phrase "by imposing a levy on nitrogen artificial manure" by "taking a levy on nitrogen artificial manure as an option in this process."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u325	I'm happy about that, so I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u326	Fine. If the motion is modified that way, I can give her "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u327	But it will have to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u328	Okay, fine. The motion in part No. 29 is about a shark action plan. We are now in the process of drawing up a shark strategy. We will send them to the Chamber in March. The elements mentioned in the motion will also be addressed in the action plan. I would therefore suggest that we simply take over this motion, because those elements are already addressed in the shark strategy we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u329	The fun thing about this shark action plan was that it was called HAP and it's gonna be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u330	Then Mrs Bromet may continue to mention the HAP. Do we have a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u331	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u332	Good. I understand from Mrs Bromet that she has no objection to adopting the motion, but I must ask all the groups to do so. I see a nod in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u333	Fine. I have indicated that I have the motion in part no. I would like to thank you for supporting the motion for a resolution. It seems very nice to do that in the form of a green deal with Schiermonnikoog. So I'd like to give this motion "judge chamber." The motion in part No. 31 I can give "judge chamber" if I can explain her as follows. I'm working on a soil implementation program right now. I explore with parties the possibilities to make sustainable soil management financially attractive. I am also already working on pilots in the area of manure and simplification of manure legislation, as I have just indicated. I would like to give Mr Geurts a profit warning. I'll look at the funding options, but I don't expect too much, so I just want to manage the expectations a little bit. If I may explain the motion in this way, my appreciation could be "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u334	I understand the Minister's argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u335	The judgment on the motion in part No. 32 I leave to the Chamber. I do not currently have a point of contact to impose the stop in motion on part No. 33 is requested. In fact, you have to back that up. We're in the middle of these investigations. I don't have the point of reference for that, and that's why I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 34. I have sent the letter in which we have indicated what the targets are and what the criteria on which we are going to be tested are. I've already carried out this motion, and that's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u336	I would like to explain why I do not read that in the letter. I think it is a letter with a number of conditions and not criteria on which different proposals are assessed to determine which one is best. The goals are as general as in "wide prosperity in economic, environmental and social matters" and you can include everything. That's why I'm dissatisfied with what's been sent now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u337	Mr Futselaar may be dissatisfied with that. I would like to point out to him that last Tuesday I spent all day in the First Chamber, where the debate was also about the General Political Reviews. Mr Futselaar's partymate, Mr Kox, insisted on the need for the cabinet to focus more on broad prosperity, including in policy implementation. I think that is exactly what we are doing now. I'd almost say this could pass the Tiny Kox test. We have had the discussion about this and this is a means by which we try to give our hands and feet to it. Then the motion to part No. 35. I have indicated that I will send a letter containing the planning when we intend to take matters up. That letter's coming this month. I understand what Mr De Groot is trying to say with the motion. He wants to radiate an urgency, and I feel that urgency, too. I will look in the letter at exactly what is going to be the planning of things, but I do not think that I should be pinned on before or just after the Mayreces. I understand the spirit of the motion, and if I may explain it a little more broadly, I can leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u338	There's a nod in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u339	The next motion in part No. 36 I can give judgment to Chamber, as well as the motion in part No. 37. The motion in part No. 38 is very similar to Mr De Groot's motion, which I have just discussed. Maybe these can be pulled together, but I'll leave that to the proposers. I understand the port of the motions and I see the urgency, but I'm just asking for the space to fill that out. If I give to De Groot judgment chamber, so will this one. My free advice is to see if they can be joined together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u340	It's Judgment Chamber with an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u341	Yes. To judge a motion differently on one month... The judgment on the motion in part No. 39 I can leave to the Chamber. I'm gonna work on that. I need the motion in part no. 40, also because Mr Moorlag is talking a bit more broadly about the reform of livestock and also about the "Space for Space" regime, which really is the domain of the provinces. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 41 I can give judgment Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 42. The motion in part No. Forty-three of Mrs Ouwehand's, I must advise against. We just have our own trial. The motion in part No. Forty-four, I also advise against it. The motion in part No. Forty-five, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 46 I also advise against. The motion in part No. 47 I also advise against. We mentioned 2030 as the date in the vision. The motion in part No. Forty-eight, I'd advise too. We also discussed this in the debate on pigs a few months ago. Let's see where I left off. I am a little confused with all sorts of other motions that have also been tabled. Mr President, what is the motion on item No. 49?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u342	That is the Old Hand motion which the government is calling for proposals for greater and effective transparency on the life and death of animals in the meat, dairy and egg chains.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u343	Oh, yes, I have the motion in front of me. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Fifty, I'm telling you, too. The motion in part No. 51 I must also advise against. The motion in part No. 52, I'm not sure. My colleague from OCW is talking about the motion in part No. 53. So I find it a little complicated to speak for her. The budget debate on OCW took place just before this. I find it a little complicated to talk for her. In that light, I must discourage the motion or else ask them to file or discuss the motion with OCW. The motion in part No. 54 concerns the colleague of Defense. For the same reason, I advise against that motion. I should like to see the motion on part No. 55. I promised you that I would come before the Animal Welfare AO on 14 November with a response to the RDA recommendation. I suggest you wait for that reaction. In that light, I would ask you to hold the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u344	Then I'll hold this motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u345	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (35000-XIV, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u346	Then I advise against the motion in part No. 56. And the motion in part No. Fifty-seven I also advise against. Then I have a few more motions. Which one should I do first? Mr De Groot's report on fisheries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u347	That's the motion in part No. 7 (34526).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u348	That's an amended motion. As it has now changed, I can give her judgment room. The motion in part No. 8 (34526) has also been amended. As it has been changed, I can also give her judgment Chamber. Mr. Geurts still has the motion in part no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u349	That's on another piece number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u350	No, that's on the same piece number, that's 34526. But that motion hasn't changed. Mr Geurts has asked me to give an appreciation. It's about the North Sea Transition Fund. I've already asked for the motion to be held. I'm sticking with that because we're still looking at the fund. I'd like to see that, too. I don't want to anticipate that yet. In that light, I should therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u351	It's under consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u352	I come to the motions that have been tabled with the BZK budget and which have gone here. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 29 (35000-VII). The motion in part No. 30 (35000-VII) I also advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u353	Then there's one more amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u354	Yes. The amendment in part No. I'll have to dissuade 10, too. This also calls for 1 million structuralally. I would like to point out that we have also made funds available in the Envelope Region for specific projects in the BES Islands, including a project on agricultural development Bonaire. It also tackles a part of the coral problem, in relation to the goats. So we're doing something there. This calls for 1 million in structural terms, and I am not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u355	Thank you very much. Oh, there's one more question from Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u356	Well, one question... I find it very disappointing. This week we have seen a decline in biodiversity. We are a rich country with a responsibility, including in the Caribbean. But we are not making any financial resources available for it. I think that's very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u357	I'd like to challenge that lecture. I just indicated that with the regional deal, 30 million went to the BES islands. Part of this is available for agriculture and therefore indirectly for nature at the BES, because it addresses the goat problem, which also has a relationship with coral. So I do not entirely endorse Mrs Bromet's reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u358	I had another answer to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u359	Oh, yeah. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I have a few more questions to answer. There's a cup of "separate questions." I treat them a little in random order. Mrs Ouwehand has asked if I can promise to get to work and that the LTO is not at the helm. I'm gonna get to work with a lot of parties. LTO is part of that, but I can tell Mrs Ouwehand that I am at the helm. Mr Geurts has asked if we want to improve the visibility of the Agro-Top. I have indicated that in a letter I mention which cases... It also has to do with reporting rules or reporting cases. I would suggest that I include that in the letter. I can therefore take the five bottlenecks into account, because I do not have them in place right now. Mr De Groot asks me once again to state clearly what the policy towards Europe is with regard to circular agriculture. I believe that I have already mentioned this in the debates on the Agriculture and Fisheries Councils. We share the vision of circular agriculture from Europe. I even gave that view to my fellow Members. I would also like to mention Kringloop agriculture as an element that should be included as far as we are concerned. So I think I am doing exactly what Mr De Groot is asking. Mrs Ouwehand has asked: how many pigs are there and how many animal rights are there in the market? We checked it out for a while. The number of pig rights currently stands at around 8.8 million pig units. That was the state of play in 2017. In 2017, there were a total of 12.4 million pigs. One factor applies to each pig category, but one pig is less than one pig unit. That is why the number of pig units, the 8.8 million, is lower than the number of pigs, the 12.4 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u360	I'm not too smart about that myself. The minister was financial spokesman in her previous life, so she's handy with maths. My question is: how many pigs are there rights in the market right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u361	There are 12.4 million pigs and there are 8.8 million pig units for that. That's because a pig counts for less than an entire unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u362	Does the Minister say that at least there are no more pig rights on the market than pigs are kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u363	No, I'm not saying that, because I think a pig is a pig, too. However, that is a matter of definition and then we are going to have a discussion on the definition of piglets and pigs. But if I add up the piglets, there are more pigs in total, because piglets are less pig units. I don't know exactly what the ratio is, but you can, so to speak, have two piglets for one pig unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u364	I would like to rule out the fact that there are rights in the market that are not currently being used, in any case, that they are being withdrawn from the market and that, on balance, we are not getting anywhere with them because those rights have not already been used. I'm looking for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u365	Couldn't you have asked that question a little sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u366	You don't have to do it now. It may also be written before the votes. But that's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u367	Yes... I mean, people have rights. Whether they hold a pig for that or not... I think that is precisely the discussion I just had with Mr Geurts, on the other hand, about the cows. How am I supposed to determine that? In the end, you have the right. Are you gonna hold pigs for that, yes or no? That's kind of your choice. But if you take out some rights, at least that means you can't keep any more pigs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u368	Last remark, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u369	I understand that with rights that aren't being used, you're dealing with the property issue. But I'd really like to be able to check this out. It is precisely because the POV has forced that the phosphate ceiling does not go down. What are we gonna do with it in the end? I just want to be able to control that. Then I haven't said anything about the fact that you wouldn't have to pay for rights that aren't being used. That's not the point, but I want to be able to control what happens now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u370	But, Mrs Ouwehand, we are going to shape this whole reorganisation. The Chamber is going to be informed of how that goes. Then Mrs Ouwehand will also be able to see whether farms with pigs disappear. I think I'm just going to periodically inform the Chamber about how we're handling this reorganisation. I think I have given you the information that Mrs Ouwenhand asked for and that's it. The CDA asked another question about the RVO's report on the re-evaluation of livestock farms. I haven't traced the message yet, so I need to check exactly where it came from. If the re-evaluation is to take longer, it should not be a problem in itself, because even if a decision has not yet been assessed, a meat farmer can apply for the exemption scheme. So that's not an exclusive land. The re-evaluation does not prevent this. I have already indicated that 95% of the meat farmers' decisions have been re-assessed, so it is still a small percentage. But that's not mutually exclusive. The CDA also asked about the timetable for the Greenport Gelderland. This is part of the horticultural agreement, which is expected to be concluded in spring 2019. That was my last question. I should like to thank your Chamber for a nice debate. I really liked the debate. I am glad that we have sometimes also had some dilemmas about the vision, and now it is also about the impact. I wish everyone a good night and I thank everyone for the warm words about my cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u371	Thank you, Minister. I have one more question for Mrs Ouwehand. You asked for an opinion on two motions that had been held in the BZK budget. Would you like these motions, 35000-VII, No. 29 and 35000-VII, No. 30, also put to the vote? I note that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-01-tweedekamer-10.u372	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday. We are voting on the law and the amendments tabled to it in December. I would like to thank the Minister, the members, the support of the Minister and of the members and, above all, of the Chamber.
