ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall now turn to Mr Sjoerdsma's question on behalf of D66, to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, whom I would like to welcome. It will replace the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is about the message that Russia is attacking Ukrainian Navy ships in the Black Sea. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Russian aggression and the blockade of the Azov Sea are not an incident and, as far as I am concerned, they deserve a very strong response. Because Putin is acting like a geopolitical boa constrictor. He first annexed Crimea and thus also seized 80% of the Ukrainian fleet. Then he created a slumber war in eastern Ukraine, where a Ukrainian soldier still dies every three days. In the gas sector, he is working on Nord Stream 2, a pipeline from Russia directly to Germany, to ensure that Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic states are in the cold. And now this. After months in which Russia delayed and sometimes stopped Ukrainian ships, Russian ships rammed Ukrainian ships by daylight, shot the crew and then hostageed not only the ships, but also the people. By doing so, Putin deviates from his modus operandi. In Crimea, it was still green males. He also denied any involvement in Eastern Ukraine. There were Russian soldiers who had gone on vacation themselves and of course were not under the command of the Kremlin. The action on Sunday is thus one of the boldest and most dangerous escalations we have seen in times. It's not an incident. It's part of a broad strategy. The conflict on the edge of the European Union also threatens our peace and security. If Putin gets away with these actions, it will affect important standards of justice and human rights for Europe. That is why it is important that we do not allow ourselves to be fooled by how Putin does this. My appeal today is: let the Foreign Minister at European level call for additional personal sanctions against Russia to show that no aggressive step by Russia remains unpunished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I think I can make it clear that the cabinet is very concerned about the situation in the Azov Sea. We also sympathize with the six Ukrainian Navy people who were injured in the shelling. Let there be no doubt that blocking access to the Azov Sea by Russia is contrary to international law. The Russian blockade is therefore also unacceptable. That has been made clear. Russia must ensure that Ukrainian ports remain accessible 24 hours a day and night. NATO and EU spokesmen have already called on Russia to restore access to the Azov Sea last Sunday, 25 November. On behalf of the Netherlands, Minister Blok has called on all parties to de-escalation through all channels. This has also been done in the VNVR, at a high level of administration and, of course, in the OSCE and NATO context. We are still waiting for a declaration from the Member States of NATO, which can arrive any minute. It is unacceptable and it is a matter of great concern. We are devoting the utmost diplomatic effort to de-escalation. At the same time, in relation to Mr Sjoerdsma's question and request for personal sanctions against Russia, I would like to point out that we do not want to anticipate things. You know that we, the Netherlands, are focusing on broader human rights-oriented legislation within the Union, which could result in sanctions. At the moment we cannot see that this is much like other Member States, but of course we always have a lot of contacts and keep our finger on the pulse. Mr Blok will come back to this on Thursday at the NATO AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	I thank the Minister for her answer. It rightly refers to the united declarations, not only in the Security Council, but also in NATO and the European Union. Words are used as "unacceptable," "very concerned," "worried" and "unacceptable." This Minister is also right to point out that Russia must return the ships and the crew to Ukraine. But, in this way, I would like to ask this Minister, for when? Every minute they are taken hostage is a minute too much, but what is the deadline that we as the European Union must set to make it clear that this situation can no longer continue? I also refer to Putin's salami tactics. It's good to bet on de-escalation, because nobody wants this to lead to further armed assault. But if Putin thinks he can get away with this, he will now pass the place and then go a step further. That's what we've seen in the past. 'Cause this didn't fall out of the sky. Russia has been working for months to make the Strait of Kerch and the Sea of Azov more difficult to pass. The port city of Marioepol already has 30% less activity than it had before. It is, as this minister says, a violation of international law. It is good that we condemn this, but I now call for sanctions against Russia to show that it is not impunity. Just when Trump is unclear, the European Union is being tested. We're being tested here. Our boundaries are being tested here. Our external borders are being tested here. Now we must also show that we can react if Putin takes such steps. If we do not go for these sanctions now, I would like to know from the Minister what consequences the cabinet will have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to come back to two points. I now have no specific information on the fate and possible transfer of the six injured seamen. The Russian name, which of course we deny, is one of criminals. The Ukrainian government regards the men as prisoners of war. I have also raised the question of whether the OSCE has sought access on humanitarian grounds and whether the International Red Cross has been deployed in accordance with mandate. Returning the wounded is of course extremely important and in the meantime very good treatment in accordance with international agreements. The concerns surrounding the Russian strategy, as Mr Sjoerdsma points out, are, I think, widely shared. There is a framework, namely the NATO meetings that are to come, which is, of course, the best time to discuss this and show it in agreement, following the statement. As far as the anticipation of the option of personal sanctions in this case is concerned, I have just mentioned that we in the Union and elsewhere are focusing on human rights-based legislation, which can include sanctions. At the moment, this has not been very successful, but that does not mean that this should not remain the focus. Then there is the comment about Nord Stream. The cabinet still has a neutral attitude towards Nord Stream 2 and that position has not changed for the time being. We still see it as a commercial project that will have to comply with national, European and international rules. A well-functioning European gas market and diversification of the supply route for gas transit through Ukraine remain important. However, I recognise the issue of dependency and risk, but this concerns the wider issue of Russia's strategy and operates correctly. It is, of course, also important to continue to advocate an approach and, where possible, a pragmatic approach and dialogue. Russia is on the UN Security Council. It is still an integral part of Europe, but I believe that there are a number of meetings at international level where these issues are discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I understand if there is a NATO meeting to be held and perhaps we should not anticipate it, but I would also really like to ensure that Putin gets away with a 'worried, worrying, worrying, worrying' from the 28 capitals and then he can continue with what he is doing. So let me put it this way: we will come back to this on Thursday in general discussions on NATO, but in the meantime, my plea is that these personal sanctions should be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	I can fully endorse Mr Sjoerdsma's plea, and I am also pleased that he is calling for attention to be given to this. As far as personal sanctions are concerned, I have already, together with Mr Sjoerdsma, made a proposal to the Minister for some sort of Magnitsky legislation, including in Europe. The Minister is also working well on it, but perhaps the Minister will also be able to look towards next Thursday's meeting to see to what extent the momentum for such a new law is much better, even now in Europe. One must forge the iron when it is hot. How hot is the fire?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	I also very much appreciate what Mr Van Helvert said. I think I will pass this on to my colleague, Mr Blok, as some of the discussions are now underway. We are still waiting for feedback and Thursday is the AO on this. I do think that we should also take into account how proportionality can remain relevant when looking at EU legislation on human rights violations, because that is where the measuring bar is rather high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
