ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the debate on sexual harassment in the workplace. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma as the first speaker and applicant for this debate on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must of course say 'co-request' because I asked for this debate with GroenLinks at the time. Mr. Chairman. Although the first media storm has gone down, women around the world still insist on calling attention to sexual harassment or violence. #MeToo was preceded by #zeghet and #YesAllWomen, and #TIMESUP now gives a sequel to it. This movement calls for stars to be dressed on the red carpet in black and that call is answered massively. I find it admirable and also brave that these women are able to get this painful subject on the agenda around the world, often against the rocks. But, Mr President, although this media attention is good, these problems do require more than just media attention. Now that #MeToo is no longer a trending topic on Twitter, we have to go through it ourselves to actually fight a change for each other. And that's why we're here today. Today we are looking for possible solutions and changes. We must work together to ensure that there is zero tolerance for sexual harassment in general and in the workplace in particular. Mr. Chairman. Each employer must offer its employees a safe working environment and I believe that the government as a large employer and also the House of Representatives should set a good example. It shouldn't matter if you're working on the Brandaris on Terschelling or following a Marine training course. We must make sure that our workplace is safe and that our employees know where they can go if there are abuses. That is why I propose today that the House of Representatives should also look at the President of the European Parliament and have all ministries carry out an internal investigation into the extent to which employees are affected by sexual harassment, to what extent employees know what their rights are, but also to what extent is known where they can be found in abuses. I'd like a response from the Minister. I have a motion in preparation for support because I also attach great importance to this issue of a clear ruling in the Chamber. Mr President, I also understand that our President of the House of Representatives is already working on this and I think that is good news, I say from here on out. I do not think it is the figure that she can answer me now, but I would like to invite her to provide the Chamber shortly with a letter on how things stand. I see her nodding and I thank her for that. Finally, on this point. I would like to see the directors also motivate companies to lead by example. I appeal to these leaders and specifically to those of Social Affairs not to let companies get away with 'that is not the issue here' or 'we have a very open culture'. All the news has taught us that, unfortunately, this ostrich policy is not working. I would like to hear a commitment on that. Mr. Chairman. Every year, 134,000 employees have to deal with unwanted sexual attention. That's a city the size of Zoetermeer. 45% of Dutch women had to deal with physical or sexual violence after 15th. I think it is our duty to do everything in our power to improve that situation. That is why these three questions remain. One, what is being done to prevent gender-based violence? Two, in what way is the approach to unequal male-female relations shaped? And three, when are we going to get the action plan to increase the willingness to report? All the way to the end. We must also ensure that we do not lose sight, that our intentions do not degenerate into a witch hunt and that we do not get a situation where a man and a woman, or a woman and a woman, or a man and a man, are no longer afraid to be alone in one room. But we do need to get to that safe working environment, where everyone knows what their rights are and where everyone knows where to ring the bell when they need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr. Chairman. Many women, but also men, have to do with it: an inappropriate remark, an annoying touch or worse. The #MeToo campaign shows that many people are facing sexual harassment somewhere in their lives. It is incredibly good that all these brave people have spoken out about this. This has led to the subject being discussed. A place where sexual harassment should not occur is the workplace. Your work is a place where you must feel safe, where you will not be harassed or intimidated. However, sexual harassment occurs regularly in the workplace: one in three cases of sexual harassment takes place there. Unwanted behaviour at work often has to do with the culture of the organisation and culture is difficult to change. To discuss unwanted behaviour and create a safe working environment, you need more than just rules. It requires employers who stick their necks out, courageous executives who dare to enter the conversation and stand up for a safe working environment for all employees. Mr. Chairman. Let us also not forget that in an open and safe culture we should be flirting, as long as everyone can clearly indicate their limits and they are respected. A culture in which both can be done is a safe working environment. What do the leaders think of this and what actions can we expect in the area of women's awareness and empowerment? We hear too often that the people who report it are often excluded from their workplace, which is therefore not yet safe, rather than tackling culture in the workplace. See the example of the lighthouse keeper Nicolette van Berkel. The priority must be to address culture and avoid further slaughter of the reporter. Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Social Affairs is active in campaigns, tools, meetings and so on. The stakes are commendable, but what is the result of this? Is there a difference and how is it monitored? How is the Secretary of State going to implement my adopted motion to allow the Inspection SZW to pay specific attention to sexual harassment? I think it is important for the government as an employer to set an example. Can the directors indicate how things are going in their ministry? Are they prepared to play an exemplary role? Is a safe working environment subject to discussion at the official summit of the ministries? If it gets to the point where someone has to deal with cross-border behavior, then it's important that you get somewhere with your story. Recent FNV research shows that more than half of the victims do not report. Trusted persons can play an important role in this. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, trusted persons have a much stronger position and are also legally anchored in the labour law. Here too, the government must set a good example. People should be able to report unwanted behavior in an independent, confidential place. I therefore call for an independent hotline for the government. A kind of external confidant for employees where they can go for support, but also possibly for a second opinion if they do not come out with their employer. What does the ruler think of this idea? Sexual harassment can be so serious that there is sexual violence. Victims can report it to the police. An informative conversation takes place first. That's an important moment. It brings victims into contact with the relief services. At a time like this, there has to be good support. Now victims are sent home and something only happens if they act on their own. Does the Minister agree with me that this creates a barrier and is she prepared to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u5	I had another question about the previous point, about the hotline. It seems extremely important to me that victims, whether they are victims of discrimination, racism or harassment, know very well where to go for help, to report or to ask questions. We know there are a lot of hotlines for it. People can go to the police, they can go to a trusted person at, for example, a ministry or other employer. There are also many other places, such as the union, the or and the company doctor. I wonder what an additional hotline Mrs Özütok thinks would add, except perhaps even more confusion where one should rightly ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u6	Instead of creating confusion, I want to create clarity with an independent body. This may be within an existing body, where people can seek advice if they do not come out internally with their employer. Such a place can also fulfil the function of second opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u7	I hear what Mrs Özütok is saying, but in another debate we also talked about the number of hotlines in the country for all kinds of different things, including for this. If you want to report something outside your employer and your working environment, there are also dozens of hotlines. I wonder whether Mrs Özütok might not want to have an overview of where people can go and whether they can walk those paths instead of adding an additional hotline. That would only add to the confusion, so that people no longer know where to go. I would ask her to look at how we can make things clearer rather than throw more and more at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u8	Again, I have my doubts about this. I am, of course, prepared to look into that further. For me, it is important that an independent opinion can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u10	Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago I heard two unnamed MPs say that they were done with the whole #MeToo thing. In passing, I just heard the words "witch hunt," "mediahype" and "feminist whining." Let me be clear: I too am completely done with #MeToo. Not because I think it's bullshit, but because I think everyone should be able to be sure of a safe working environment. In preparation for this debate, I made a call asking people to share their experiences. Terrible stories I was told about bosses who couldn't keep their hands at home, about dirty apps after work hours and especially about the fear of going out with them. I understand that fear very well. Of course, complaining about abuses is never easy. Not at all if these abuses are related to a taboo subject such as sexual harassment. 'Cause prove it! And if you dare to report it as a victim, you often get the ball back: "she must have asked for it," "you should see what she's wearing," "she was definitely out for promotion." What if your boss did it? Are you sure about your job? There is no doubt that sexual harassment is more common than many people think. 134 victims in the last year alone. And even today it was still in the news: the mayor of Huizen who has been harassing female employees for years. Sexual harassment is not gender-neutral. It happens to women four times as often. The cliché that it happens especially at drinks or staff parties is not right either. 75% takes place on the regular workfloor, according to research commissioned by the FNV. A large part of these cases disappear in the cover-up, because people can't dare or report it or because nothing happens internally. Only half of all organisations still have a trusted person, whose position is not even legally protected. It has to be and can be better. Does the government agree with me that every employee has the right to a trusted person? I'm considering a motion on this point. We are also looking forward to the results of the ongoing investigation into the role and position of trusted persons. Mr. Chairman. You can't really change anything until you know what's wrong. I would therefore like to hear from the government what it is going to do to ensure that the willingness to report is increased. To what extent did the SZW Inspection understand whether all companies in the risk inventory and assessment, RI&E, have taken measures to prevent sexual harassment? Only through the union and the works council can you, as an employee, employ the Inspection SZW. Why does the Inspection SZW not deal with cases arising from individual notifications, so that the threshold to report becomes lower? I am also curious to see what is going on with the implementation of the motion by GroenLinks and my colleague Gijs van Dijk asking for sexual harassment to be included in the annual plan of the inspection. Of course, it has already been mentioned here as a large employer, the government itself has an important role to play. I would therefore like to join the call to start a large-scale investigation in my own home. I'd almost say "time by hand in my own bosom," but I don't. Young learned, old done. I would like to hear from the Minister of Education what she is going to do to implement my adopted motion to pay more attention in schools to sexual resilience, diversity and safety, something which is often not being done enough in many families and classes due to legal embarrassment on the part of parents and teachers. But the real problem is, of course, much and much deeper. That is what feminists call "the patriarchy," an as complex as persistent system of power inequality that creates a culture in which the Weinsteins of this world got away with it for years. I look forward to talking with the Minister of Emancipation shortly about tackling inequality and sexism, at school, at work and, yes, also in the Lower House. For as long as there are people here who dismiss the conversation about #MeToo as feminist whining, the emancipation is far from ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems so logical: you keep your paws off someone else if it doesn't serve them. Unfortunately, this is not so self-evident for everyone in the workplace. We all know examples of women being harassed by their boss or a colleague, sometimes very subtle and sometimes downright intimidating. I've heard those stories, too, from women who thought at first: am I crazy, is this normal, is this really happening, was it maybe my fault? Then it is quite a step to stand up for yourself, and unfortunately that does not always lead to the unsub being called upon or any action being taken. I know of cases where the woman was told that she should work somewhere else and be sent home with a bag of money. Of course, that's bizarre, that she's being sent home and that the perpetrator just keeps working there or, even more importantly, just makes a promotion. Sexual harassment and violence are never acceptable to the VVD. No is no. Everyone has the right to a safe working environment in which borders are respected. You can't force that as a policy, but we can contribute to it. Everything must be done to prevent sexual harassment. Prevention, then. That starts with awareness at home and then in education. Following a motion by my colleague, Mr Becker, the key objective of sexuality and sexual diversity is strengthened. But attention at school alone isn't enough. This also needs to be done on the sports field and on the workplace, in any possible place. Making the subject negotiable is important, and so is engaging in cross-border behavior. Due to the recent #MeToo coverage, this debate is more topical than ever. It is very good that this has led victims to feel strengthened to stand up for themselves, because that is not easy, especially in a situation where there is a dependency relationship or a hierarchical relationship. Some questions about prevention. Campaigns aimed at achieving a society in which sexual violence and intimidation are less widespread are of course fantastic, but the question is whether they are also effective. For example, do these campaigns lead to a greater willingness to report? Is sufficient attention paid to the fact that employees can lodge a complaint with the Ministry of SZW if their company does not comply with the legal requirements in the field of protection against sexual harassment? We've been asked about trusted people before. Does every organization have such a trusted person and does this also apply to the government? People who do not respect the borders of others or even go far beyond them must be addressed. If you can't keep your hands or other body parts at home, you're supposed to suffer the consequences. Not sending the victim home with a bag of money, but the unsub, as far as I'm concerned, obviously without a bag of money. When there is sexual assault or rape, the judge must, of course, be involved. I have two questions for the Minister. What about the reflection period you're being forced to press charges? I'd like to know if that idiot rule has finally been finally deleted. Is there also a rush to deal with sex cases as quickly as possible? Victims need to know that we aren't in the process of picking up and bringing the perpetrator to justice for a day longer than necessary. There are still parts that can be improved. The Minister's letter shows that the leadership of vice teams steers tightly on the lead time in vice cases, but that regular consideration is given to how it can be reduced. I ask the Minister what this shows, what parts it concerns and whether he thinks that the police and the prosecution have sufficient instruments to optimise this. Victims of sex crimes must be helped as quickly as possible, and it should not be the case that the perpetrators go away with impunity. Mr President, I will conclude. Although certain behavior can be perceived by one as intimidating and not by the other, we all know stories about a colleague who always crosses the border, makes a sexist remark or always has his hand in the wrong place. But we also know that colleague who deliberately puts an arm around your shoulder when you have a difficult moment. The latter has nothing to fear as far as we are concerned. The first one is, it needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mrs Yeşilgöz mentioned the crime scene, to be precise, the vice squad. We have heard from the week of the police union that police in general are heavily overburdened and that they are also vice detectives. They've been given a lot of extra work. Sexual abuse is an underrated social problem. They argue for additional capacity. Given your plea, I assume you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u14	I have also just asked the Minister if the police and the prosecutor have enough instruments in their hands to continue to take this decisively. I'm very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u15	The police union, not the least, says: you should actually have a total of 2,000 extra detectives and it would be good if there were 100 extra sex detectives. Do you share that view and will we make a proposal together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u16	I wonder what the Minister has to say about that. The question is whether I share the view that an x number is needed. I think we absolutely must continue to invest in the police. It is now a question of whether there is a specific deficit. I have put clear questions to the Minister. Do they miss instruments there? It is not always just about money, it is also about powers and other instruments. Are they missing instruments, and can we help to tackle them even better? I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u17	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sex crimes have a huge impact on the victims. Sexual violence and sexual harassment intervene deeply in people's lives. By the way, I do not like to align violence and intimidation, because these are really different things. Both lead to burn-out, absenteeism, prolonged mental illness and depression. It is precisely because the seriousness of sexual harassment has been increasingly recognised in recent years that we, as legislators, have taken a wide range of measures. There is Arbo legislation and we have obliged employers to pay the most serious attention to this. Sexual harassment is explicitly mentioned in the Working Conditions Act. We've made the role of executives crucial. There are confidants, there is the company doctor and the company social work is actively advised on prevention of sexual harassment. In short, we have rigged up a whole infrastructure to help victims. They are listened to, advised and provided with solutions. The Ministry of SZW has researched the role of trusted persons; that will still be the case. This issue is being discussed with the social partners. Actively, there are campaigns on sexual harassment. There is a guide to preventing and tackling sexual harassment at work. There are meetings and the Inspection SZW is extremely active. And even in education, we have included sexual diversity and development in the core goals. There is also an extensive discussion on sexual harassment. And in the most serious cases, where this range of organs is not able to offer solutions, there is also the police and there are the Centres of Sexual Violence. Mr President, I have just quoted quite extensively from the letter from the Minister of Justice and Security. I did so in order to make it clear that I have no evidence whatsoever that this subject is under-exposed. So I sincerely wonder what we're doing here. 'Cause what we're doing here isn't nothing. We are having a plenary debate in the Lower House of the States-General in which two ministers and a State Secretary are present; it is quite a lot and then there really must be something going on. And of course there's something going on. But again, this has attention. What more can we do than that fan that's already there? I say that, even though I fully recognise that there is still far too much sexual harassment at work. But it's got attention. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to intervene, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u19	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u20	I was wondering if I should come forward now. We hear from research that a third of the women who report or complain about sexual harassment just lost their jobs. We may have some wonderful papers, but what kind of a sick world do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u21	I understand this interruption very well. And it's true, it doesn't work perfectly, and it's also all human work. There's a human shortage. And I say again: I acknowledge that and I also recognise the seriousness of it. But I do not see very well what we need to do here in order to make this even more difficult. Then let's agree to dive into the existing system. Research is being carried out, including on the role of trusted persons. That's where conclusions come from. Then we'll work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u22	We hear from expertise that we have a lot of codes of conduct, and that we do have a Civil Code but that every organization can only do its own thing. We hear that as long as there is no clear standard, we do not really know how to deal with it. Shouldn't we start there anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u23	Well, then we need to streamline; I totally agree with that. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, there is also something else going on. From the international of the social justice warriors that's what I call it, the #MeToo-hype from the United States has blown over. They're acting on it now. D66 and GroenLinks did not know how quickly they had to seize this and now they are standing here in a cloud of righteousness and virtue. But we see it differently. We see politicians here trying to score political points on the wave of #MeToo. And in other situations that is to be forgiven, but this is a very serious social problem that many people are victims of. These politicians are shining their excellence over the backs of these people, and that is not a pretty sight. Worse still, chairman, D66 wants a major investigation into abuses in the Lower House and in the Ministries; we just heard. As far as I'm concerned, these are all organisations that have their shit in order. One has them better in order than the other, but the infrastructure is there. That's where civil servants work as confidants. They do their sometimes incredibly difficult, precarious work there to their credit and conscience. But D66 doesn't trust them. My question is, why not? That is not what I am asking the rulers, but the colleagues who support the request for such an investigation. What do they know? Do they have any indication that there are serious abuses in the Chamber or in the ministries? Do they have any clues that the confidants are keeping matters under wraps? If that is the case, I invite Mr Sjoerdsma or others to give the interrupting microphone openness now. Are you saying there are clues? If you can't do that, then I can only conclude that a political number is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u24	I think I will give Mr Sjoerdsma the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u25	Yes, because if I'm sitting here shining according to Mr Beertema...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u26	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u27	... I'd be happy to do so in person and not by the words of the PVV. I have a question for Mr Beertema. Does Mr Beertema know roughly how many employees each year have to deal with unwanted sexual attention in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u28	Yeah, surveys show that that's 134,000 people a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u29	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u30	That's a lot, but I also point out to Mr. Sjoerdsma that these are surveys, with questions like: do you feel unsafe at work, do you ever have this or that? It's all very diffuse. The public's sense of security is often not entirely in line with reality. I do not think that surveys are the most scientific method to base this kind of large political movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u31	The fact that Mr Beertema wishes to answer this question only makes it even clearer to me how important it is for us to have this debate today in the House of Representatives and makes it even clearer to me how right it is that these parties look at this seriously from the left to the conservative right. I'm also saying that because the 134,000, Mr. Beertema, is a terrifying number. If you then see that the #MeToo discussion, which Mr Beertema has trivialized, has led to a doubling of the number of reports last year, then I think that the problem is not only much greater than it has been reported, but that there are also annoying and difficult thresholds for those who are dealing with sexual harassment, that they often find it difficult to take it out of a sense of shame, sometimes out of a sense of fear, sometimes out of a feeling of misplaced debt, to take that step. Mr Beertema, which I regret, is making this a political issue today. That's what's wrong with him, and that's what's wrong with his party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u32	Now I get blamed for making a political song; Mr.Sjoerdsma has just indicated in his own contribution that he is playing golf on the #MeToo-hype. As far as I'm concerned, it's a hype. I would like to point out that there is indeed a very selective indignation on the part of the Left. This is convenient, because the #MeToo-hype is so good in the media. But I remember, for example, how the left-wing parties also expressed a great deal about the Roman Catholic church, the Roman Catholic priests and the child abuse there. And rightly so, and rightly so. I also hear Mr. Sjoerdsma saying that I'm trivializing things again. He doesn't seem to be listening. I'm not doing that. I'm not playing games. And I'm not playing down that either. But I do find it surprising that all those left-wing parties then, with the Roman Catholic and now with the #MeToo-hype, are in a huge way firing off their indignation, while in those same left-wing parties a lot of people work at, for example, the Red Cross and Oxfam, where the most horrible sexual abuses take place. But then it stays dead quiet. Then it stays silent, and that clearly indicates that your indignation is incredibly selective. You are making the political song, on the wave of #MeToo. I do not give you that, because I think that sexual harassment and sexual violence are too important a subject, too serious a subject for D66 to win a political profit from it. That's my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u33	You may respond, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u34	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u35	You don't know where to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u36	No, I do not know where to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u37	Van Meenen always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u38	I'm starting to feel a little more for him when he's had a debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u39	That's it. Have a drink with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u40	Sometimes I didn't understand why he came back from the plenary room, but now I get it. In the meantime, I get it, because Mr.Beertema here claims the exclusive right of justice for himself, because Mr.Beertema pretends to hitchhike parties here at #MeToo. The opposite is true. That is what I said in my contribution. I said that the media attention for #MeToo had just left and that caused me concern. Not that this attention was important, but precisely the fact that after that attention needs to be taken forward. And I have put forward proposals for this, the PvdA has put forward proposals for it, GroenLinks has put forward proposals for it, the VVD has put forward proposals for it and the CDA has put forward proposals for it. In fact, the only party that has not made any proposals to actually tackle sexual harassment in the workplace says: that is the PVV. What the PVV does do is take others into account. I'll tell you one more time: it doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u41	I don't feel like we're taking other people's weight. I'm saying Mr. Sjoerdsma does. I remember a few weeks ago he had to take Renate van der Gijp's measure. He was going to ask oral questions about that, because Mr Sjoerdsma was also about humor in the Netherlands. Not about Aunt Annie from, what's that VARA millionaire's name again, Paul de Leeuw, because that's all right, that's good taste. But René van der Gijp was suddenly bad taste. Mr. Sjoerdsma would show something, as the new sex master of the Netherlands. Listen, Mr Sjoerdsma, I say through the chairman, we are satisfied with the range of measures I have just mentioned. Give that a chance. Let's, as I just said to my CDA colleague, take action where it doesn't work, so that declaration will increase. Let's all do that. But don't do a whole show here with the House of Representatives and ministries. Do you have or do you not have that, I have asked you to indicate that there are serious abuses? If that is not the case, you must stop doing so, because then you are really making a political number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u42	I think we should end this, because I would like colleagues to be able to return the debate to its content, which is important enough. It's really important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u43	Don't be so paternalistic, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u44	Really, really, Mr. Beertema...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u45	You're interrupting me, aren't you? I'll answer your questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u46	Madam President, who has the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u47	...and then you come here as some kind of superintendent and say, "Let's put an end to this." It is not up to you to decide whether this debate is to end...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u48	That's up to me. And now you can finish your sentence, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I'll go to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because the problem is of such magnitude... I have just said that and I would advise Mr Beertema to listen this time. 134,000 employees a year. That's a city the size of Zoetermeer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u50	Very diffuse questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u51	That is the tip of the iceberg when you see that the reports of this kind of abuses have doubled as a result of the #MeToo discussion. So, Mr. Beertema, my request to you is lower, a little more on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u52	A tone lower... I'll keep my head down. I'm gonna wait and see what the rulers have to say. So far, I am satisfied with this huge range of measures. I don't see what Mr. Sjoerdsma is going to add to that. Maybe I don't know about a vice cop in Nieuwspoort or something. Is that what you had in mind? I honestly don't know. But we're all gonna wait and see. We can now proceed to the next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u53	You say on the one hand that there are investigations. You say something must happen, but then you say: there is so much already, so nothing really needs to happen. Where the hell are you? Are you behind all those people who say they've experienced unwanted behavior in the workplace and that they feel abandoned in their approach? Are you disabling all these stories?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u54	It's making me all gloomy. You're not listening either, I say through the chairman. I have said that there is a range of measures which undoubtedly contain imperfections. It's all human work. But all those confidants do their job in the best of conscience. I'm gonna say it for the second time. I told Mrs Van Toorenburg, I said it to Mr Sjoerdsma and I say it to you for the third time now. Let us tackle these imperfections, but do not come up with big plans with which you are shining here as GroenLinks, so of "Look at us be virtuous." Be realistic. Realistic politics. It's all human work. Just give it a minute. Let's take small steps in that system that there is. Then that's how we're gonna perfect it. We don't need a grand oeuvre from GroenLinks, or Mr. Sjoerdsma. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u55	It's clear you're not behind them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u56	Who's behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u57	It is clear that you do not support people who all indicate that something is really going on. You do not agree; that is clear. I think all people should be at home where they shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u58	This lady is talking out of her neck!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u59	Mr. Beertema, just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u60	Ma'am, you're talking out of your neck. You don't want to listen. I'm gonna tell you one more time. Please stand still. If there are any imperfections in the system, I'd really like to solve them, because I do support those people. Don't stand there putting words in my mouth in such a stupid way. Oh, come on! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u61	Finally, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u62	Well, if this is the intelligence level...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u63	Oh, the intelligence level!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u64	If there are so many complaints, then it is already clear that something is really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u65	You think I'm stupid? You think I'm stupid, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u66	You're standing here saying there's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u67	One final reaction. I'm not saying anything's wrong. Mr President, I am going to start my speech again so that the lady can listen very carefully. Here we go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u68	Before you go any further. Mrs Van der Hul also wants to ask a question, or perhaps two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u69	I want to say a lot, but I start with the word "hype" that Mr Beertema spoke in relation to #MeToo. He uses the word "hype," but that "hype" has caused a lot of people who have experienced this, millions of people worldwide, to rise up and feel strengthened by the power of the large number to do their story. Mr. Beertema calls that a "hype." How does Mr. Beertema feel when you, as a victim, hear a politician in the center of our democracy say that your story is part of a "hype"? Then there's my second question. Mr Bertema talks about selective indignation. How does Mr Beertema explain that it is quiet in the field of PVV when we talk about all kinds of forms of emancipation, until it suits her and fits her style, because then the PVV at once is the emancipation society? When it comes to selective indignation, I'd like a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u70	Yeah, these kind of emotional calls. "How do you think it feels?" I feel sorry for the people. Let me read out my first paragraph, Mr President. For Mrs Van den Hul too. "President. Sex crimes have a huge impact on the victims. Sexual violence and sexual harassment intervene deeply in people's lives. By the way, I do not like to align violence and intimidation, because these are really different things. Both lead to burn-out, absenteeism, prolonged mental illness and depressions." That's how I feel about these people. I feel this sincerely. Is that all right, Mrs. Van den Hul? Have I bent enough for your righteous attitude towards all those victims? On another type of victims, I have one more paragraph that I would like to share with you, and then you will never be home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u71	It's Mrs. Van den Hul. You may respond to that, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u72	I keep to my point that the #MeToo movement, which has many years of history by the way, does absolutely no justice to the power that that movement has unleashed and the power that many victims draw from a simple hashtag. Putting down as a "hype" means nuancing, ridiculing and normalizing violence. And that is exactly the problem that this evening is about. Mr Beertema is now helping to normalize, ridicule and nuance violence against women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u73	I must also note that Mrs Van Den Hul does not listen at all and puts words in my mouth. She walks away very indignantly, but it doesn't make any sense. I don't ridicule. I'm not normalizing anything. I recognize the problems on all sides. Let's just keep it a little businesslike. Once again, for Mrs van den Hul and for all those other people, I fully recognise the suffering that causes sexual violence and intimidation. But once again, the infrastructure we have opposed is working. It doesn't always work well and needs to be improved, but let's get on with it. We do not have such infrastructure when it comes to honour vengeance, marriages, polygamy, child marriages, genital mutilation. Do I hear someone say, "Here we go again?" Hundreds of girls in the Netherlands live in agony for their own family members. Yeah, here we go again, yeah. Last year there were 500 reports of honour vengeance, 20 of which ended deadly. By the way, about half of them were male. These victims have no confidant. They hardly even get political attention, and certainly not from the left. My appeal to the emancipation spokesmen is to address that great woman's suffering, which is happening under our eyes, at last. Let's get a majority for that without hyper-hashtags. I'd be happy to invite you all to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u74	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u75	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to shine for four minutes, if you don't mind. Our job is that we often go on the streets very late. I listen to the radio, often to engaging conversations. Pretty recently, I noticed two conversations. An expert explained on the basis of an investigation that after a complaint about sexual harassment, it is still often the case that the person who made the complaint, or the person who issued the notification, is the one who is the shortest and still the one who is being transferred or dismissed. It's about the victim. Often the man, higher in position, sits down and escapes the dance. Those hard tests were told on the radio, so I went to look them up and it's true. In the end, that radio interview called for some standardisation of codes of conduct, or perhaps even an adaptation of the corporate governance code. The seriousness of sexual harassment should be given a prominent role in this and the decision-making process should change with regard to the internal consequences. These conversations on the radio are like presents. When I look at what is going on, as Mr Beertema rightly points out, we have a very comprehensive letter, for which thanks are given to everything that is being done. We read in the Civil Code that a definition has been defined, but if you look at how it is translated into companies, you can see that it's actually just a bunch of codes of conduct. And interpretation also plays a very important role. And then we see the statements of the College of Human Rights, which gives varying opinions. We see that the case law of the courts does not clearly shed light on this case either. Today I ask the Cabinet to look at the standardisation of these codes of conduct or suspension of the corporate governance codes. Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate that? The sanctions policy also shows that there is a great deal of difference. Often one has to respond to a complaint, but not to a notification. How should we react? It doesn't say that. There is actually no directive. De facto we have a lot, but no standards. Back to those nocturnal rides. Another night I was listening and then someone said something that did come in to me, because I think it's true. When you look at the Code of Criminal Law, you see that we have a Code of Criminal Law that comes from a time when women didn't matter, had absolutely no role in our society and had no voice at all. What you see in there, I've noticed more often as director of a women's prison. In a storm situation, women have almost no protection, because you are only protected when you defend yourself immediately. Often women can't. It is only when a threater turns around that they can do something, but that is not what our Code of Criminal Law is designed for. Then you'll have to wait for someone else to show up. But you can also see it in the case of sexual harassment, for example. Because sexual harassment is just not in our Code of Criminal Law. I know that Mr Marcouch, our former colleague, has invented an initiative legislative proposal in this area. That's what he's been consulting on. There has been one formal response from the Dutch Order of Lawyers. Mr President, you do not believe it, but the conclusion was that it was a matter of law and order, and I say it quite bluntly that sexual harassment is a form of freedom of expression. And that's why they torched that whole proposal. I can't understand that. So my question to the cabinet is: shouldn't we look at whether sexual harassment should become a criminal offence? At present, this debate is being held in the British Parliament. We're gonna have to feed it here, too. Because that sexual harassment investigation can be done. We see it in Rotterdam, we see it in Amsterdam. We're trying to do it on a local level. Shouldn't we go check it out? That would help me, as a CDA, to be able to conduct the debate on the basis of perhaps an initiative law on the criminalisation of sexual harassment. Because perhaps with our still too much man-oriented Code of Criminal Law, we are actually doing a lot of people in our society short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u76	I can fully sympathise with the CDA colleague's speech. In Amsterdam, where I was on the council before I came here, I and my predecessor fought for a total of six years to get sexual street harassment on the table at all, to make it negotiable. How can we act on that? How can we raise our young people from home, from school, you name it? If you really don't want to listen at all, if you don't realize that you just have to leave someone else alone. At the moment, this is being rolled out locally, in cities like Amsterdam and Rotterdam. Does the colleague of the CDA agree with the VVD that it would be good to see how that develops locally and what the maintainer, the municipality, does or does not run into? Then we can see how that local can be better picked up. 'Cause that's where it's going. Surely it would be a shame if we were to come up with all sorts of new things here, new legislation and legislation, if we were to put a stop to this local approach, which has just been rolled out. Shall we wait and see how that develops?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u77	Allow me to refer to the debates we have had in the area of justice and security. I am concerned about the fact that a few cities have included this in a general police regulation, whereas it is still unclear how to report it. It's unclear how the police can respond to that. Putting something in a regulation is something other than a criminal offence. We see that Amsterdam has to invent the wheel and Rotterdam has to invent the wheel. I have asked the Cabinet to discuss with the VNG whether it is not much better to do that nationally. Because why shouldn't I be intimidated in Amsterdam and in Utrecht?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u78	I'm just calling two cities now, but all those cities work together. In Rotterdam and in Amsterdam other cities have been visiting who have said: show me your plan of action. Among other things, these preventive measures have been pursued with great vigour, and that is, of course, the real solution to a change in behaviour. I would therefore like to call on you to look at all the municipalities in which this is going on. Encourage them to work together and then ask what they're up against, so you can actually pick things up. Because then, of course, we'll take real steps. Then we really stand up for anyone who wants to walk the streets free and safe. Then we know exactly what's going on. I think that's much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u79	I don't think so. Apart from the fact that in those big cities the corporate #MeToo is thriving in prostitution: I don't know if that's always a good example. We are going to talk about this in detail. I just think we should look. In the Netherlands, you can't be intimidated anywhere. If I see that that is not really in our Code of Criminal Law and that this debate is taking place in England, then I think that we should not just have that debate in different cities. For it may be that in Den Bosch people do not look at these cities because they think there: we do not want the rottenness that is there, so we do it in our own way. Then why should we do that? If you live in the Netherlands and if the serious crimes we are talking about are punishable, then you should see if you need to regulate that in the Code of Conduct, not in a general police regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u80	Thank you. That was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u81	Mr. Van Dijk, you've been so quiet all night I've forgotten you. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u82	Mr President, you understand that I am considering making a reference to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u83	You're being intimidated by the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u84	Yes, political harassment. No, I'm not. Mr President, I shall start quickly. Last October, victims of sexual violence came out massively with their experiences. #MeToo became world famous. Sexual harassment perpetrators are no longer getting away with it, and that is a good thing. Research from TNO shows that 1 in 50 working people last year experienced unwanted sexual attention: 134,000 people. Research carried out by the FNV shows that almost half of the employees face sexual harassment. That's huge. And it doesn't just happen in the workplace. On the streets, too, women are often subjected to sexual harassment, whistling, gesis and other things that do not make them an individual, but are reduced to objects of pleasure. Do you share the view that this is unacceptable and that people should be able to feel safe at all times? Mr. Chairman. Sexual harassment on the workplace is, of course, also unacceptable. We can't let unsubs get away with it. Suspension or dismissal should be an option. Does the government share this view and, if so, how will the government promote the use of these instruments? According to the union, many employers are negligent in making policies for this. How will the government achieve better compliance in line with the Arbo Act? Is the Inspection SZW able to maintain this? Is it an idea that every organization has a confidant? Would you like to change the law on that? Mr. Chairman. Figures from TNO show that relatively many people in the social work facility experience unwanted sexual behaviour. Can the government investigate the situation within the SW and draw up an action plan to reduce this number? Mr. Chairman. Sexual assault, assault and rape can be reported to the police. There is a good chance that more reports have been made recently, due to the attention paid to #MeToo. I ask the government if this is true, how many reports have been made and what about that increase. This automatically brings you to the capacity and workload of the vice detectives. Research conducted by the Dutch Police Association this week shows that the vice squad is heavily overburdened. We shouldn't have that business lying around. That's why the SP is proposing to expand the vice squad by 100 fte. That's consistent with the police union's proposal. There are now over 600; this could be a significant strengthening. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must also do everything we can to prevent sexual violence. That starts at school, with good education. What is the status of sexual education in schools, including for the sake of sexual resilience? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of my motions for resolutions to include sexual education in the MBO and, not to mention, to sanction schools which do not provide sexual education? That's 5% of the schools, that's what I read in your letter. 5% of schools - that's not wrong - now doesn't give sex education. What does the Minister of Education think about that? What's she gonna say to those schools? Finally, attention should also be paid to honour-related violence, such as honour revenge. What is the government doing against the fact that abuse and violence in these communities are all too often withheld because of group pressure? Can the government respond to Sunita Biharie's article in the Volkskrant of 31 January on abuse within the Hindu community? Are you prepared to investigate that? For Mr Beertema in particular, I would like to refer to motion 32824, No. 37 of November 2013, from left-wing parties, mainly to provide additional support to victims of honor-related violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Now we're really done with the first term of office. There's a need for suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u86	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Then the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and then the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 24 November last, I wrote a letter to your Chamber on the initiative of the Cabinet in which I listed the rules in our country on sexual harassment and violence. I have also explained how we can prevent and combat this in society, in the workplace, in education, in sport, but also how we can help victims of sexual harassment and violence, in the justice chain but also in life. That letter came from the earlier that month quite agitated.I can't say "disappointed". #MeToo-discussion. I am not going to repeat what I wrote in that letter, but I would like to make a short point this evening about the misunderstanding that there would be unclear standards for sexual harassment. On rape and assault, very briefly sexual violence, I think we are, at times in society, certainly about rape. That is clearly stated in the criminal law in Article 242. Assault is set out in Article 246. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say once again: sexual assault, that is every forced, fornicating act. In recent months, people have been suggesting here and there in the debate, at least sometimes in the media, that there would be no clear standard of sexual harassment. That's not right, because that standard is there. The General Equal Treatment Act states in about these terms the following definition of sexual harassment: sexual harassment is to violate any unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical sexually tinted behaviour with the purpose or effect of violating the dignity of another person. And that, you can say, especially by creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading or humiliating environment. The point here in the middle is to violate the dignity of another by certain sexually tinted behavior. That's sexual harassment. That, I think, gives enough ground to know how far you can go or even better - what limits you really shouldn't cross. I would like to say, although I am interested in the idea expressed by Mrs Van Toorenburg, that there are also a number of standards in criminal law in this area. I refer to the violation of the dignity of Article 239 of the Criminal Code, which is a minor sex crime or sexually intimidating behaviour in the form of coercion, threat or insult. This is also covered by criminal law. I'm not gonna bother you with the numbers. Mr. Chairman. I don't really see myself as a moral knight. I simply think it is important that, when there is a very clear discussion from society, we should discuss the #MeToo debate once again, which is the problem. The MPs did that tonight. I am not going to go over all the reports again, which indicate in detail that there is still a real problem in this society with regard to sexual violence and harassment. I quoted the report of the Fundamental Rights Agency from 2014 in my letter, but I can also refer to reports from Rutgers Foundation, which is very much beyond doubt. For example, the Sexual Health Monitor clearly indicates that there is still enough room to improve. What I wanted to make clear tonight, at least, is that I think we have clear rules, including in the area of sexual harassment. This means that in society people can appeal to each other and must continue to address each other, even if that hashtag, #MeToo, has gradually faded. I don't want to leave it at that. Thanks for the handkerchief. It's not the emotion, but it's the weather. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have a working visit tomorrow at Pretty Woman, an organisation in Utrecht with a number of other organisations. Then it's about looking at the approach to new online-like forms of sexual harassment, because they are now there. Sexting, exposing and the like; they're just new phenomena, new forms of appearance. As a society, we need to work on that. We have to do something about that. Surely, as Minister of Justice, you can call me one of the first to do so. In short, we still have enough to do with each other to reduce sexual violence and harassment in society. A few questions have come to my plate and I would like to answer them briefly. Mr Sjoerdsma asked when there would be an action plan to increase the willingness to report. In the short term, a first conversation will take place with the national tractor of the Centres Sexual Violence. Based on the WODC report on the experience of victims of sexual violence, which was sent to you by my predecessor in September, that discussion will explore how victims of sexual violence can be motivated to report to the government for justice and care. One finding in the report provides special points of reference. That is the finding that the environment of victims has a major influence on the decision whether or not to report to the police. Unfortunately, a large number of situations of sexual violence and harassment take place in the small circle of acquaintances and family. In the follow-up process, discussions will also take place with other partners. This will be done under the direction of my colleague for Legal Protection, Sander Dekker. Ms Yeşilgöz asked whether these campaigns would lead to a greater willingness to report...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u88	Mr Sjoerdsma is on the interrupting microphone, but perhaps you can answer Mrs Yeşilgöz's question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u89	Do you want me to do that first? Through you, Mr President, I say to Mrs Yeşilgöz that the causality is never really clear. The campaign that my colleague Dekker and I are seeing in front of us, which can stimulate the willingness to report, must be based on the recent WoDC investigation into the experience of victims of sexual crimes. That investigation shows that there are obstructive and stimulant factors for reporting a sex offender. For example, the characteristics of the crime are important for the consideration of a victim to report. A stimulating factor is, for example, the environment of a victim. What I mean by that is that people from the surrounding area cannot, of course, help and encourage the victim to do something about it. But at the beginning of March, in consultation with municipalities, police, the Centres of Sexual Violence and organisations such as Victim Support Netherlands, we are looking at how victims of sexual crimes and their environment can be encouraged to report through targeted information, in order to raise the awareness of reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u90	This Minister rightly outlined the urgency he feels about this problem. He also rightly outlined the scale of the problem. After hearing that urgency and extent, I also expect some sort of speed in it. That is the only thing I do not see in his colleague Mr Dekker's proposal. The letter of 24 November announces that Minister Dekker, together with the police, will examine Centres of Sexual Violence, municipalities and organisations to see how they can increase their willingness to report. Now, three months later, this minister says that the first meeting will take place shortly. I imagine the Minister has a full agenda, but this problem is urgent. I would therefore urge him to be urgent. And I would like to know from this Minister when he expects the action plan of his colleague, Minister Dekker, to be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u91	I am afraid I must remain guilty of the answer to that last question. I told you that this meeting will take place at the beginning of March. I didn't say that was a first conversation in this area. It is very clear that this campaign is being set up, and one is looking at how such a campaign can help victims in a good way and lead to more reports, because that is what this is about. It's still pretty complicated to put that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u92	Well, it's complicated, isn't it? This applies not only to the willingness to report such offences, but also to the wider extent. I understand it's complicated matter. Can I ask this Minister to follow a letter from his colleague, Minister Dekker, about what this trajectory looks like and when he expects to come up with that first plan? I understand that that is complicated and that it may not be immediately clear when that is, but a little more sense of what that trajectory looks like and when we can count on that plan, I would like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u93	If it was a letter from myself, I would immediately say in this term that that letter is coming. I hope that Mr Sjoerdsma will allow me to look at that in the second term. I'm being spotted, but I don't have the mobile device on hand right now, I guess. The technique leaves the well-meaning official, at least me, in the lurch. Mrs Yesilgöz asked about the information interview at the time of the declaration. Sorry. Was there another question or interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u94	Mrs Özütok is listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u95	Oh, she's listening. It's gotta be possible. The information call in case of a declaration leads to discouragement. The question was: are you prepared to abolish it? Let me just do a little bit of confession literature. When I was working in the first days as a minister and dealt with this too, I shall be honest with you, my first and spontaneous reaction: that is not the right thing to do; you must immediately record that declaration! In the meantime, I have been properly informed and it is precisely the importance of the way in which this has been set up by the vice police, in close consultation with the specialized vice officer. That information interview, the first interview in which the victim reports what happened, provides information on the possibilities of assistance, the process of declaration, victims' rights, the right to free assistance and the possible impact of the criminal journey. It's the victim's right to consider whether or not he or she wants to report it. In principle, the victim is given a period of two weeks to think about it. But I would like to stress that this informative conversation is being done by specialist detectives and that it is not what you might think and what I thought at first, too, is having a kind of discouragement effect, such as: boy, we already have such a workload, or: just remember that it is difficult. No, on the contrary. Right, and here's a point, if the perpetrator is a known one, there are a lot of aspects that, in a good informative conversation with the police and through a consideration of the victim, can very well lead to the choice to report. Victim's got the lead. That's the starting point of the vice squad and the vice squad. Finally, I would like to say that, in the context of notifications, the D.A. is ultimately making a final assessment of whether it is found that, if the victim does not wish to make a report, the D.A. must take it out of his own hands. I have to tell you that this is a method which appears to be working well in practice at the moment and which I really say is not a policy of discouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u96	I hear the Minister very well when he says he is satisfied with these informational talks. But a lot of victims say that it discourages them because they are then sent home to think about it again and then no action follows. The experience with this informational conversation is that the victims are left to their own devices. The site is also not very insightful about how that informative conversation works. My request to you is: please take a closer look at the value of that information conversation and how exactly the instructions for that conversation work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u97	I'm guessing the numbers you're referring to are the ones I first called for. This does not really appear to be a representative sample on further consideration. What I would like to say to you, however, is that in some time, either in plenary or in committee, we should look at a good time to arrange for either the Vice Officer to come to you in committee or we should have a general discussion on how this will ultimately work in practice. Do the victims really benefit from this? The signals on this are positive at the moment, but I would like to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u98	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u99	Thanks for the answer. In 2015, the VVD also asked questions about this. We made a point of it back then. We didn't do that so much because of that informative conversation, because that can of course be very valuable. You'll know what's coming your way. We did that mainly because of the reflection period. If you've been through something so terrible, I can imagine the step to report to the police is huge. So I can also imagine that it can also be very difficult if you are then sent home with all the information you need but also with the message 'think about it'. I am pleased that the Minister is committed to seeing how the Chamber can obtain more information on this matter. I also hear him say "it works well" and we can also listen to the vice police for that. However, I would like to point out that it is only relevant to me whether it works well for the victims and not whether it works well for the vice police, which, by the way, I am very high up, and the public prosecutor. It's about the victims and I wouldn't want to hear in an AO or a round table how it went off. I would like to ask the Minister how he intends to inform us about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u100	You're absolutely right about that. Let me make it very clear that I do not mean that someone like a vice officer comes here to say a la toilet duck: the system that I have devised, that works. We shouldn't do that. We need to look at a representative victim investigation, because I think that's the most meaningful thing. That's one. Two is that I apologise to Mrs Yeşilgöz, I really have to address myself to you, President-in-Office of the Council. So it's not a policy of discouragement, like: well, boy or girl, you think again. That is not the case, because it is people who are being helped by people in their environment to make that report, but who are actually struggling with it. Those people have a problem with that and they don't dare, even though they're with the police. Those people, after that informative conversation and having referred them to victim authorities, we want to give them a few weeks to think about it. I'm not going to repeat anything else. The purpose of this is to frame the doubt and uncertainty a little bit and to give them more certainty. But returning to my first point: my idea would be to discuss a representative victim investigation with your Chamber in some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u101	Thank you for this commitment. When this debate was held in 2015, it was cited that such a reflection period could also be used, for example, to filter out the false declarations. We should always support the victim and give him the rights of the victim. In that case, we should be less concerned about the alleged perpetrator. I think it goes a long way now to go even deeper into this. I welcome the Minister's commitment and would ask him to take a broad look at what was initially the starting point for doing so at the moment it is on the agenda. How was the debate in the past, how was it laid down and how does it work out at the moment? Then we can really look very critically at whether this is the way in which we should proceed. To be continued, for now, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u103	If there is sexual violence, it is terrible. Then, as far as I am concerned, we must do everything in our power to ensure that it is punished. I read here that one in three people refrain from reporting after talking to the police, for example because they are unable to cope with the personal consequences and the process of trial. That's not good. There's been sexual violence. That's my assumption. Nevertheless, one in three people will not report it. I think we should take care of that. It must lead to a declaration and it must lead to conclusions. How can we help these people and can you include my point about the vice detectives, who are overloaded according to my information? We must ensure that these people are well facilitated. That can never be a problem, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u104	There is a very annoying factor in the whole, namely that in a very large number of cases the sexual harassment, and even worse the sexual violence, was committed by a family member or someone from the very close circle, sometimes even the life partner. That has a painfully negative impact on final declaration, because you yourself said it to people for personal motives eventually decide not to go through with it. In cases where there is very visible and well-proven sexual violence, the public prosecutor can take this much more easily on his own initiative. But there are also cases where, for example, the burden of proof presents problems. If you're in that personal little circle, as I call it, it's really hard for a lot of people to get over that obstacle and turn in an uncle, a good friend or maybe even your husband. I can understand that, too. I want to say this about the taxes on the vice squad. In 2017, there were 4,699 informative talks with the police. 2.592 reports were filed and 9,778 cases investigated by the vice teams. That is not an increase compared to other years. There is even a slight decrease. It is not possible to relate those numbers to the #MeToo-like movement. There is no question of overload. In November 2017, 217 declarations were made against 237 in 2016. In December 187 by a year earlier 182. So that's pretty much the same thing. I don't recognize the image of the overload you're sketching. The vice squad currently has 614 FTE and is well placed to take matters up. I refer to my letter of 24 November, in which, as you know, I also deliberately named a case in which things did not go well in all respects. I have also been attracted to this as Minister of Justice: it is a mortal sin that there are just a few things, I call the Hoorn vice case, that have really not gone well. But it is not because of my letter that I and my ministry were then given clear signals that there would be this overload. I would also like to say, for the record, that cases of trafficking in human beings in the direction of prostitution and child pornography are being picked up by other specialised police teams. So at least there's no double workload or anything like that in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u105	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u106	I think this week was wide-ranging news that there were shortages with the police. The unveiling of the police union was that 2,000 men would be needed, and of that 100 sex detectives would be needed, I've been told. So in that respect, there may be a discrepancy between the Minister's vision and the workplace. In addition, I also maintain my point of the enormous emotional burden of this work for those people, to enter into that conversation. If someone is inclined not to make that report because it is going to take a long time, because of the long lead time, then that is a matter that we should take care of, which the Ministry should be concerned about. Does the Minister share that opinion? And shouldn't he do everything in his power to promote that declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u107	Let me start with the final point. Then I will come to your question of capacity. I have already told you about the willingness to report that we are in the process of launching a good campaign so that we can raise that number and get it better. That is a bit complicated, precisely because of the problem that there is so much in the personal and often even family or marriage sphere. Anyway, that's what we're doing. That's what we're betting on. I would also like to agree with you that we, that society has an obligation to do so. As a government, we have an obligation to make good efforts to do so, and I hope that you will continue to do whatever you do now, namely to encourage and monitor us well in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u109	The other point, the capacity. I certainly cannot confirm the numbers mentioned in that report this week. I have indicated this before, both in general consultation with your Room and in front of the camera. Moreover, these police capacity issues are not just about numbers of FTEs, they are also about specialisation and they are about training that is being expressed as concerns. I am currently discussing this issue with the corps leadership and the mayors, and I will certainly come back to that in the spring. I'm gonna go from the extra police deployment that's gonna come up, and I'm gonna tell you exactly where it's gonna go. But again, the vice police are really very competent, very specialized and well-distributed in FTEs. Then I think that, Madam President, I have answered all the questions. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u110	Thank you. Mrs Van Toorenburg, a question to the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u111	In my opinion, I had asked him quite clearly whether there could be an investigation into the criminalisation of sexual harassment, given the general police regulations, what is happening in Rotterdam and the fact that there is an initiative. We really want to be helped in the formation of thought to see whether that is sensible or not. I've missed that in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u112	I sometimes see with Mrs Van Toorenburg in discussions with the standing committee, but also now, that I may not have made it sufficiently explicit. I have said that I certainly find her thought interesting, and I will indeed examine with my officials whether it would be useful to investigate this. I would like to return to that in a letter to your Chamber, in which I will probably be able to report on my findings in the field of online events. I would also like to say that it will certainly be dealt with in the review of vice legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u113	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that's very important. I hope that the Minister will consider the somewhat bizarre reaction of the Dutch barristers and perhaps even discuss it. When I read that, I thought: with the statement that sexual harassment is a form of freedom of speech, this so valuable profession simply disqualifies itself immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u115	Mr President, I will certainly look at the idea of the Dutch order of lawyers about this. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u116	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say a few things first in general terms. Then I will indicate where SZW can facilitate and also be able to monitor prevention. In other words, supervision, and a number of specific questions from the Chamber. Everyone must be able to feel safe at work. It is a very important observation, even today in the debate. I really hate it when people go to work with fear because they are confronted with sexual harassment. From my responsibility for healthy and safe working conditions, this is a very important subject. I also welcome the fact that we are discussing this in the Chamber today. Following the #MeToo there is a lot of extra attention for sexual harassment at work. That is right, because unfortunately many workers, women and men, also have to deal with this in the Netherlands. The consequences of sexual harassment are often profound. I am thinking, first of all, of the victim who is affected in his or her dignity, sometimes even physically. That could lead to people coming home. But sexual harassment also has a negative impact on colleagues and on the working environment, especially if it is not adequately addressed. Sexual harassment can start small. What for one is an innocent remark or touch can already be perceived as annoying or intimidating to the other. A safe working environment, in which employees dare to indicate boundaries and where they are respected, is therefore crucial. Therefore, the Working Conditions Act obliges employers to protect their employees from a number of factors leading to psychosocial workload, including bullying and sexual harassment. Employers must draw up policies for this. There are a number of things that SZW can facilitate on. I would like to go into that, because a safe working culture, in which people dare to speak to each other, is important to prevent unwanted behaviour. In recent years, the Ministry has done a lot to raise awareness. It has developed tools to support employers and other parties, such as works councils and workers' representatives. An example of this is the Signpost Sexual Intimidation at work. It's a website. I took a look at him myself, in preparation for the debate. It is a very clear overview where, depending on whether you are looking as a professional, employer, or as someone seeking help with a sexual harassment issue, you will be helped in what you can do and where you are going. 'Cause it's a lot of searching where you can go. This guide helps the victim, colleagues and leaders to identify and tackle sexual harassment. In 2018 I will also continue to focus on awareness. I want to re-emphasize these developed instruments, including through the Arbo Portal, but also through other channels that reach specific target groups and sectors. Ultimately, it is important that they are used in the workplace and that there is a noticeable result. In addition, there is an action team that actively assists twenty companies and organisations in tackling work stress and unwanted forms of handling. Here, practices are rolling out that are being developed and that we will then share widely. In addition, I organize at least two meetings this year to specifically focus on the subject of sexual harassment and unwanted behaviour, one for or-members and one for workers. Both target groups are important. They can identify problems in companies and organisations and insist on a good approach. In addition, it is of course very important that a victim of sexual harassment can discuss this unwanted behaviour so that it is addressed. If that is not possible with the supervisor, then it is important that a victim can go to a trusted person. This can help by listening, but also by thinking about solutions. In addition, a trusted person can play a role in early detection of undesired behaviour and its prevention. At the moment, I'm having an investigation into how the role and position of the trusted person can be strengthened. I will share the results of this with your Chamber in April. Mr. Chairman. The measures I have just mentioned are mainly aimed at organisations that want to tackle sexual harassment, but do not know or do not yet know how to do so. But let me also be very clear here: if organisations deliberately do not tackle sexual harassment, then we need to take firm action against it. Following reports of abuses by a trade union or a works council, an investigation by the Inspection SZW will always follow. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are Members of Parliament who have requested that individuals may also make a notification on the website of the Inspection SZW. It will not always automatically lead to an investigation, but a number of reports may indeed do so. If a report is made through a works council or through a union, it always leads to an investigation. Moreover, it is highly recommended to enter the conversation in the organisation before making a notification. In addition, the Inspection SZW monitors risk-oriented supervision in order to assess whether employers are pursuing adequate policies to prevent and control psychosocial workloads and thus sexual harassment and to ensure this. For example, the inspection looks at whether a company has a trusted person, whether it has a complaint procedure and whether it informs employees about the policy. A special team for labour discrimination of the Inspection SZW also selects organisations for inspections on the basis of, among other things, reports on sexual harassment at the Inspection SZW and also reports in the media. In addition to discrimination, this team also looks at bullying and sexual harassment. My commitment is to prevent this happening and to ensure that employers and other stakeholders provide a safe working environment in which unwanted behaviour is addressed and reported in good time and in which action is taken in the event of abuses. Then a number of specific questions have been asked that I would like to visit. Among others, Mrs Özütok and Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether there should be an independent hotline for unwanted behaviour in the government. I have just reached out to the Minister for the Interior, because she is responsible for the staff policy frameworks developed by ministries. You may therefore assume that the answer I give will be supported by BZK. Each ministry also has its own personnel policy, but the Minister of BZK reports as coordinator to the Lower House. She has informed me that the government already knows several independent hotlines for reporting unwanted behavior, from the Complaints Regulations sexual harassment to departmental hotlines. Officials may submit formal complaints to their superiors, to complaints committees or to the Ombudsman in a second instance. The Organisation and Personnel Expertise Centre of the Ministry of the Interior is also worth mentioning, because it deals with conflict mediation, among other things, for the entire government. The consultants who work here have an independent position vis-à-vis the client. In order to achieve this independence, safeguards have also been set up in the processes and in the quality system. Furthermore, a large part of these professionals are certified and/or affiliated to a professional association, which also offers an external guarantee. Also from my responsibility, from the portfolio I have, I point out that the Inspection SZW has a general hotline on its website. Employees, certainly members of the works council or a staff representation, trade unions or third parties may submit a complaint on the website of the inspection about the company where they work or about another company that does not comply with the statutory regulations in the field of employment protection if it is not possible to resolve problems within the company in reasonable consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u118	This is an important point of the Secretary of State about these hotlines. However, there is apparently a great deal of unfamiliarity about the issue, including for me. How independent and outside the organisation are these hotlines? Are they also equipped to give a second opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u119	I can answer within the information I have now received from the Home Secretary. If it goes further, I will have to ask if, for example, she is willing to write a letter. More questions have been asked, for example about research into sexual harassment within the government. I would ask you to check at the end whether I have given sufficient information or whether a further letter should be requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u120	Fine, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u121	I will continue on that subject, Mr President. Mr Sjoerdsma has requested an investigation into sexual harassment within the government. I also had contact with the Ministry of the Interior before that. Combating undesirable forms of behaviour is, as I have just said, an important component of the integrity policy in the Empire sector. There is a great deal of attention in the Code of Conduct for Integrity Empire. The 2016 Annual Report of the Empire, which has also been shared with your Chamber, reports on the number of reports and violations of unwanted practices over a number of years. There are also employee satisfaction surveys and there are also optional modules that contain questions about ignorant behaviour, bullying behaviour, intimidation behaviour and verbal aggression between colleagues. On the basis of these sources of information on this issue within the government, as I understand it from the Minister of the Interior, there is no immediate reason at this time for a new, specific investigation, also because it takes a lot of time. However, it is possible to send a letter to the House of Representatives in which the data based on existing research is made clear, including on the basis of employee satisfaction research and information from the annual report of the Reich. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked a specific question about the inclusion of sexual harassment in the Corporate Governance Code. To answer this, there has been contact with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This Corporate Governance Code contains principles and provisions for good entrepreneurial governance of listed companies. The code regulates the relationship between management, supervisory board and shareholders. Compliance with the code, as Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly pointed out, is mandatory by law. The code is a product of self-regulation by the so-called supporting parties. These are the market players to which the code is addressed. These parties will discuss what should be regulated in the Code and whether the Code should be revised. During the review in 2016, those supporting parties asked the Monitoring Committee on Corporate Governance Code to come forward with proposals for adaptation. The request for adjustment is therefore not for the cabinet, but the cabinet ensures the legal anchoring of the code and the appointment of the Monitoring Committee that monitors compliance. The 2016 Code already contains a number of provisions that reflect behaviour and culture. For example, the management of a company must draw up a code of conduct and monitor its operation and compliance. In practice, such codes of conduct, aimed at employees but also at the top of the company, also address the prevention of sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u122	As a result of that conversation I heard on the radio, I contacted a number of people, including professors. They indicated that it is all very patient on paper and that this important element, which we are so shocked to hear from nationally and internationally, really has no place there. The Secretary of State speaks with companies and with Economic Affairs. I would ask her to see if there can be a firmer anchoring. Of course, we are not talking about what comes into it, but I think it is the least we can do, given that we are all so flabbergasted by what is really going on. And let's face it, we all know, unfortunately, that in those big companies, it's still a men's club at the boards, with the Commissioners. I'm really wondering where this is really gonna bubbling up in that bosom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u123	Now I find myself in a difficult position, because making commitments about the portfolio of others is always very difficult for me. Let me say: if it were to happen the other way around, I would find it a little difficult. So I have to stick to the answer. I would also like to add the personal note that I recognize Mrs Van Toorenburg's frustration. It is true that we have arranged a lot of things on paper, but we have not had this discussion for nothing. So I recognise the frustration, and it is good that this debate will ensure that this discussion is held again. But I can't make any commitments on a colleague's portfolio at this point. I can tell you that this has been an issue in this debate which perhaps should be discussed again. But I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u124	Then I'm going to think about whether we should force a little more attention from the Chamber, even though I never like it that much. Unless the Secretary of State really wants to go one step further and tell me that she is going to pass this on and that she will ask her colleague to inform the Chamber about it. Is this something that's being seriously considered? Because a number of professors say that and they have even done an investigation into it which shows that it is getting a place there so thinly, I would still like to see if we can get a little more insight into what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u125	Mr President, I would like to state in the second term how far I can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u126	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u127	Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP asked what I can do to make it easier for the perpetrators of sexual harassment to be dismissed. That is a very important question for the sense of justice, I think. I would like to point out that the current right of dismissal offers sufficient opportunities to dismiss an employee in situations where it is well-founded. If sexual harassment has been established, the termination of the contract of employment may be requested from the court on the basis of culpable actions of the employee. In the meantime, it is possible to take disciplinary measures, such as the suspension of the worker or the exclusion of the employee if the nature of the conduct gives rise to such action. The employer can also choose to dismiss the employee immediately, but dismissals are subject to strict requirements. By the way, if it is established that the employee has acted in a serious way, he may also lose the right to transition compensation in the event of dismissal. Mr Van Dijk also asked a question about sexual harassment in social services. He asked if I could draw up an action plan to reduce the number of cases. The fact that sexual harassment occurs in this group of vulnerable workers and that it is even more common there is, of course, poignant. Following inspections by the SZW Inspection, Cedris, which is the association for social employment, has itself taken the initiative to address this issue further. This has resulted in an approach based on the target group. Think of brochures, posters, information and training. I also think it is important that the inter-branch organisations should also address these issues, I would also say to Mrs Van Toorenburg. So this is not just something that is on paper, but something that is actually lived through by the people who work in such a sector. And I also hope that this measure, in addition to the well-known legal obligations, will help to reduce the number of incidents. Mr President, to my knowledge these were the answers to the questions I raised from the first term of office of Members of Parliament. If there were any more, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u128	Well, I had also asked about research by the FNV, at least research done by Totta Research on behalf of the FNV. Those numbers don't make you happy. Only 21% indicate that executives intervene in sexual harassment. So we're talking about one in five people. It also shows that employers now have to develop their own policies and that they do not. So what is the Secretary of State going to do to encourage these companies, those employers, to get to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u129	I have indicated that, if they are confronted with this, I hope they will be able to talk to their supervisor, but if they do not hear there or if their leader is part of the sexually cross-actions, then they should be able to contact someone else, for example a trusted person. There is also an ongoing investigation into the positioning of confidential persons when it comes to sexual harassment. I would like to speak to the Chamber about this in April. In the meantime, I also pointed out, for example, the Signpost Sexual Intimidation, where, even if you are dealing with these issues, you can find out how to find a place to tell your story. I am sorry to hear that so few people can go to their supervisor, because it seems to me to be the first place where you end up, and there surely should be that confidence. So there's work to be done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u130	But may I ask the Secretary of State to respond to this investigation? You can do that by letter. I think she also finds these figures interesting. Does she therefore wish to respond to this call that employers are now failing to fulfil their obligation to develop policies on this issue? I'd love it if she'd promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u131	I will see if I can supplement the answer in the second period, but I would also like to say here that employers are obliged to make their risk inventory and assessment. They should also identify the issues that could be at risk. We also know from research that in some sectors it is more than in other sectors and that the inspection is therefore actually monitoring the presence of this policy. What is perhaps a bit frustrating in the search we have tonight is that we would prefer to avoid or resolve these situations at all times for individual people, while at the same time agreeing that employers have a role to play in this and that we should ensure that this is done. For individual cases, people can also contact the police department, as the Minister has also indicated, but it is the task of the inspection, who wants to ensure safe working conditions, to see if employers have properly secured that policy. So that should also be included in the risk inventory and evaluation. That is also something that companies are able to address. Again, if there are reports from a works council, a trade union or in large numbers from individual detectors, the inspection will monitor them. That can not only be a warning or "gosh, we'll be back again," but that can eventually lead to high fines. So it is true that there are also sanctions available and companies are also able to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u132	Still, to clarify, did the inspection understand whether all those companies in that RI&E analysis have actually taken sufficient measures specifically aimed at sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u133	If a company is controlled by the inspection, then this is an excellent subject to be checked. So that is something that needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u134	That wasn't exactly my question. That's all there is to be checked, but what is the image? Is there any insight into the extent to which this is the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u135	We work with monitoring on the basis of risk analysis or notifications, for example. This may result in a check being carried out. We have agreed with each other in previous debates here in the Chamber, also on the basis of the investments in the coalition agreement, that we want to pay particular attention to this and how we intend to do it. You've tabled motions for that, too. We'll discuss that later this year. The fact remains that we do not know a system where all companies have to send their riskicio inventory to the government and then get it back by return mail with a tick. We work risk-driven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u136	I am still looking a bit for what we can then send out in concrete terms so that the willingness to report increases. I would like to come back to that point we were talking about earlier, that person of confidence. I told you before, I think I am curious to hear how the Secretary of State sees this 'that every employee has the right to a trusted person'. We now see that it is only present in half of all organisations. Just because the action doesn't start until the moment it's reported, that's one of the crucial links in this chain. I would therefore ask you once again to answer this question: how does the Secretary of State view this? Is every employee entitled to a trusted person?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u137	What is particularly important to me is that the victim of sexual harassment should be able to discuss the unwanted behaviour and also that it should be dealt with. That is crucial. Indeed, we find that this cannot always be done with a supervisor. That is why there is currently an investigation of the confidential persons. This research identifies, among other things, how the role and position of the trusted person can be strengthened, how often Dutch companies and organisations appoint a trusted person and what possible bottlenecks are for trusted persons to fulfil their role. Because that is, of course, a second: you can have them on paper, but what experienced confidants in practice? I think it is important, precisely to ensure that we fly into this subject very carefully, that we discuss with the Chamber the investigation that will be completed at the end of March or in April. As much as I would like to, at the moment it is too early to take a substantive position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u138	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u139	I have not yet heard the state of play regarding the implementation of the motion by Mr van GroenLinks and my colleague Gijs van Dijk, who asked for sexual harassment to be specifically included in the annual plan for the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u140	I have mentioned this in previous debates, and I would now like to reiterate that we are working on embedding the investments from the coalition agreement and that we are involving the motion. In the third quarter of this year, which has also been exchanged earlier in debates, you can see the details of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u141	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that we are having this debate today, not because the subject is a joy to us, but because sexual violence and sexual harassment are now firmly on the social agenda. It is therefore a good thing that the Chamber is holding this debate. Sexual violence is not new, it is unfortunately of all times. But the #MeToo movement seems to have reached a turning point. The massiveness of shared #MeToo experiences clearly shows how big the problem of sexual violence against women really is. No one can say yet that they have no idea the extent of the problem. The problem is recognised, but more importantly, the victims are recognised. There is broad consensus: time's up. The time has come to make real progress in reducing sexual violence and harassment in the workplace or wherever in society. Unfortunately, it is a fact that sexual violence is widespread in society and not confined to specific areas or groups. However, certain groups in society are particularly vulnerable. What emerged clearly in the #MeToo experiences is that there are unequal power relationships, where the victim is dependent on the perpetrator, for example for work or career. Sexual violence is largely rooted in unequal power relations between men and women. Also, there is often dependence on the victim of the offender. Unequal power relations in society, where women are still seen as subordinate to men, play a central role in the emergence and continuation of violence. Mrs van den Hul was right to speak about this. Sexual violence is one of the forms of gender-based violence that women continue to suffer in today's society. Mr Grapperhaus also spoke about the Foundation Rights Agency's investigation. This indicates that as many as three quarters of Dutch women have been subjected to sexual harassment. Almost half of them say they're victims of physical and/or sexual violence. Those are huge numbers. The perpetrators of this violence are predominantly men, with whom I do not mean that men cannot be victims of sexual violence or that women are never perpetrators. Among the many #MeToo experiences that were shared were also horrible stories of male victims, with by the way also a man as a perpetrator. For men it is often extra difficult to come up with this, precisely because it does not fit in with the dominant views on manhood. The workplace is a specific context in which women and to a lesser extent men can experience sexual violence. Mr Van Ark has just spoken about these unequal relationships in the workplace. Despite the higher employment rates of Dutch women, they are still underrepresented in the high positions, earn less, work less hours and experience less opportunities to grow. I am convinced that more diversity and a more equal representation of men and women in the workplace can contribute to reducing sexual harassment and violence. It has a positive impact on the culture on the workplace and can also contribute to a pleasant and safe working environment. More diversity and equality of power not only help to reduce abuse and intimidation, they also make it easier to report abuses. Within my policy, I try to reduce this inequality in the labour market in different ways, for example by focusing on breaking stereotypes of men and women and on breaking stereotypes, by encouraging women to work more hours, by promoting the transfer to high positions and by encouraging more women to be appointed to the summit, so that the frustration that Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about may be somewhat less frequent. At the end of March I come with a comprehensive letter in the field of emancipation. I therefore come up with a whole package of measures to deal with this. I think it has already been agreed, and it is already planned to hold the debate with the Chamber at the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u143	I totally agree with the Minister. All those things that she's now mentioning could help to reduce sexual harassment. She also cited as an example unequal pay between men as women. I totally agree with that. Can I therefore assume that the Minister supports the proposal of the Labour Party, SP and GroenLinks to deal with the unequal pay between men and women, according to Iceland's model?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u144	I agree with Mr Van Dijk that we must tackle these unequal rewards. Mr Van Ark will come forward with proposals on how we are going to do that. I think we should see what the best model is for that in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u145	I see that as a statement of support. I'm very happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u146	For the record, I have said that I share the objective, but whether I am embracing the means that you want to use immediately, I have not yet taken that step. But maybe we can approach each other somewhere. Mr. Chairman. In my policy, I also pay a great deal of attention to the prevention of sexual cross-border behavior. Of course, education plays a very important role in this. Preventing and combating sexual behaviour across borders among young people is, of course, a task of educator, a task in education. The main objectives of the curriculum of fundamental education are sexuality, sexual diversity and sexual resilience. In the coming period, this key objective will be strengthened so that schools can see what is expected of them. The issue of sexual resilience is explicitly taken into account, I say to Mrs Van den Hul. In addition, it is important that the social environment at school is open and safe, so as to prevent sexual cross-border behaviour as much as possible and education staff know what to do in the event of an incident. The developments on this point follow my colleague, Mr Slob, and I, through the biennial Social Security Monitor in and around schools, in which sexual cross-border behaviour is extensively addressed. To support schools, School and Security released the publication Sex at school, working on sexual integrity in education for school leaders and teachers in primary and secondary education and the MBO. Sexual integrity focuses on the safe and respectful environment at school, as well as on the educational task, as well as on information on sexual development, resilience and sexual diversity. Mrs Van den Hul asked about school supervision. Mr Van Dijk has previously tabled a motion on this subject, which has already been submitted in writing this summer. But it's good to repeat that reaction. The inspection will, of course, monitor compliance with laws and regulations. As you know, supervision is risk-oriented. This means that when risks arise or there are signs of inadequate quality, the inspection appeals to the school. If a school fails to fulfil the legal requirements in relation to these core objectives, the inspection will instruct the school to bring education into line with them. If the school fails to implement this task, the inspection will proceed with administrative or financial sanctions. That sanction instrument is there and is one of the regular instruments of inspection. These instruments will also be used when it comes to failing to meet these core objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u147	That is exactly what my motion of 6 April is about. The government writes: 95% of schools provide sexual education, sexual diversity and resilience, so 5% doesn't. We've known that for a long time now. Can the Minister give us an overview of the stage of action now being taken by the government and the inspection? The measures you have just mentioned must therefore now be targeted at that 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u148	As I have just said, we monitor this regularly and it is clear from the reports of the inspection. It is often the case that the inspection inspects and a school gives an indication of how to adapt education to that. That happens in most cases. That's why you don't see much of it sometimes. It is not often that sanctions are needed for this. I think the inspection itself reports to your Chamber on the situation with regard to that oversight. I would urge you to take this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u149	Then I suggest you proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u150	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u151	Very briefly, because I think there is a great deal of agreement on this issue. Yet you know how to ask all kinds of questions. I think that's pretty good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u152	Yeah, but we're gonna have to have a little interaction, too, right? Otherwise, we'll all sleep in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u153	That's true. You're keeping us awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u154	Only the chairman is still wide awake!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u155	Me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u156	That's right. Very nice. The point is that we already know that a number of schools are reluctant to adopt these core goals. We have fought for this for a long time as a Chamber, but a number of schools refuse to practice these goals. It is very nice if you give an overview. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u157	It's not a waste of time. It's a waste of time. We are also going to tighten them up in the review of the curriculum, so that schools can no longer hide behind the idea of 'we do not know exactly what is expected of us'. That's across the board. I spoke to people this afternoon who are reviewing the curriculum. It must be very clear what is expected of them. Then we can also ensure that they are complied with. A word about the MBO, because you have asked questions about this before. For the MBO, the examination and qualification decision on vocational training was amended in 2016 and an article on the career and citizenship qualification and critical thinking skills was added. Social action and respect for sexual diversity are part of this and have a broad place in the MBO. The inspection will also monitor this from the wider monitoring of social security in schools. The Agenda for Citizenship Education, which was concluded with the MBO, also stresses that this key objective is really well highlighted. This is done, for example, through performances by Theater AanZ, which we use together with the COC. I went to see such a performance myself the other day. Then you see that this leads in a good way to the subject of sexual diversity or sexual resilience being addressed in those groups. I have also recently decided to extend the use of this type of work in the MBO, in order to get the subject well on the agenda, by two years, so that we can achieve many more schools. In addition, there is, of course, extra attention to teacher training, to get teachers able to act properly and to combat the legal embarrassment that is often present today to deal with this theme. I will also go into a number of these issues in more detail in the forthcoming letter of emancipation. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u158	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u159	Mr. Chairman. I thank the three rulers for their answers. I think that we have an exemplary role to play and I think that the cabinet and the vast majority of Members of Parliament have shown today why this is so very important. I believe that the role of the government as a model also means that we ourselves make it clear to the government itself how much sexual harassment occurs in the workplace, so that it is clear whether something should happen, whether there are thresholds to report and whether people feel safe enough to report sexual harassment. Then I find the argument that it would take too much time, just a little too thin. I would say: let us take an example of this Vice-President of the House, who takes that up immediately. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there should be zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace;]] [[considers that the public authorities have an exemplary role to play and should actively implement it;]] [[noting that the government as an employer is responsible for a safe working environment for each employee and that it is clear to all and should be where abuses can be addressed;]] [[considers that it is desirable for all ministries in employee satisfaction surveys to explicitly draw attention to the issue of sexual harassment;]] [[calls on the government to carry out investigations within ministries and, if necessary, to take measures to ensure safety in the workplace;]] [[invites the Cabinet to inform the Chamber of the progress of the proceedings as requested above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Özütok, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u160	It seems to me very good to see if each ministry has a confidant and whether people know how to get there and what the state of affairs is. Do I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma wants a separate investigation into this? Or does he want to take that with him in the employee satisfaction surveys? How am I supposed to read the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u161	I think it is extremely important that we have a good idea of the extent to which sexual harassment occurs in the workplace, in the various ministries, but also here in the Lower House. And then, if something happens, people need to know where to go with their complaints and feel safe enough to deal with them. How the ministries carry out that, through regular employee satisfaction surveys, through an independent agency or otherwise, I would very much like to leave that with the cabinet itself. Otherwise, I'm really gonna sit on the investigator's chair and decide on the square inch how that research is gonna be done. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u162	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering all the questions and for their commitment to the letter on the hotlines. I'm anxious to wait for him. I had a motion on that, but I am therefore holding it under consideration. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a trusted person can play an important role in the event of sexual harassment;]] [[Whereas the investigation of the role and position of trusted persons is expected to take place shortly;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan of action before the summer to strengthen the role and position of trusted persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas victims of sexual violence usually get an informational interview with the police before they have the opportunity to report it;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine how these informational talks can be correctly used as a way of inviting people to go to the police in the event of sexual violence, by making it clear that the value is attached to reports, even if they do not result in reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-5]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I speak on behalf of a lot of victims of sexual cross-border behavior when I say that it is quite unique to speak with three rulers on this issue in this Chamber. So thank you very much for that. It also draws attention to the importance that the cabinet attaches to this. As a result of tonight's discussions, I shall table three motions for resolutions. The very first is about trusted persons and the aim is to increase the willingness to report. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only half of all companies have a trusted person;]] [[considers that each company, whether internally or externally, should have a trusted person;]] [[calls on the Government to include the trusted person in the labour law by analogy with the prevention officer and thereby to ensure both the presence and legal protection of the employee;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Özütok and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u165	My second motion concerns the inspection. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Inspection SZW only investigates alleged sexually transversal behaviour in the workplace if a complaint has been made through trade union or entrepreneurial council;]] [[Whereas this creates an unnecessary threshold for the necessary reporting capacity;]] [[calls on the Government also to make it possible for individuals to submit a request for enforcement to the SZW Inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u166	My third and final motion concerns the risk inventory and evaluation, in jargon RI&E. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear to what extent companies have actually included sexual harassment in their risk inventory and assessments (RI&E);]] [[whereas the RI&E serves as a basis for effective enforcement;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that sexual harassment is fully included in all R & Es and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is incredibly important for us to set clear standards here in matters such as racism, discrimination, intimidation and sexual transversal behaviour. I think we did the same thing tonight, Chamberwide. We said, "You don't touch anyone else if it doesn't help you." We've told each other we're right behind the victims. We have also said that we will be careful to become so cramped that we will criminalise a colleague with good intentions or innocent flirtation. As Mrs Özütok said, a healthy working environment is the balance we are striving for. Mr. Chairman. I have two specific supplementary questions to Minister Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u168	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u169	I'm sorry, the Minister of Justice. I don't spend much time here with him, so I like to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u170	I can tell. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u171	We have just talked about a round table in response to the question about the reflection period. I thought, "I'll do it now, and he'll know right away." Can the Minister add figures that show what happens when someone gets there and says he's using the reflection period? Will there be a return with a report? What's the difference in that? Can he give us a little more explanation on those numbers? My second question is: do victims of violence and sexual offences know enough that they are entitled, for example, to free assistance? Do they know anything about their legal status? I now come to this in my second term, so I can perfectly imagine the Minister coming back to it at a later stage. Those were my supplementary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u172	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV. He's not gonna fight with anyone in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u173	They're arguing with me, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the rulers for their comprehensive reply. I heard Secretary of State Van Ark explain that the departments have their own HR policy, which is coordinated by Home Affairs. She mentions that a large number of hotlines already exist. I'm fine with that. GroenLinks, however, immediately starts with critical questions about the independence of those hotlines and whether they are able to give a second opinion. This reinforces my view that those left-wing parties are never satisfied and are driven by a deep distrust of all those officials, those who are responsible for their work. Then there's something else. In a publication following Mr Sjoerdsma's plans for a study, I read that there are hardly any recent reports from Parliament and the ministries at the moment. I understand that only one politician has come forward, but yes, it has to be done, yet that great research must be carried out, because, as Mr Sjoerdsma says, every case where people do not feel safe, there is too much. I have two questions for the rulers, I am thinking of the SZW Secretary of State. Is that sufficient justification for such a large-scale investigation, which will also generate a great deal of unrest? My final question is: what would be the cost of such a large-scale investigation in the Chamber and in all those ministries? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u174	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u175	Mr President, thank you. I spoke in my first term about investigations that have been done. One of the researchers may have been given the tip from the Ministry of Social Affairs: bring this in to the House of Representatives. She did a good job of that. It is a whole investigation of legal labour law, which would be necessary in dealing with sexual harassment. I think it is a very big step to really disregard labour law, but I will give you the piece on the basis of which I came to the next motion, in which I scale it down a little bit, but still try to give some direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that sexual harassment in the workplace is still a common problem affecting victims and that employers and managers do not always know how to deal with it;]] [[noting that companies often have their own codes of conduct which differ from one another, with different interpretations of sexual harassment;]] [[Whereas a generally accepted code of conduct on, inter alia, sexual harassment facilitates the treatment and handling of complaints of sexual harassment;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the feasibility and desirability of a national code of conduct for companies and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u176	I have one more question about this. This means that we are going to investigate whether there can be a national code for all sectors and all employers. But can't the way you deal with these things differ from sector to sector? So shouldn't you be looking at it specifically by sector? And isn't it very good if employers can look up what they can do along that manual, what tools they have for that? Is it not therefore the employer's responsibility and should each sector not have a specific code?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u177	The nice thing is that I put this question to Mrs Kuiper on the phone this morning. I referred to the prison system, where 100% dependence, risks of blackmail and very complex structures may be involved. I said, don't you have a completely different code there than a cookie factory? And yet, at the heart of the matter, there is a problem that we do have a definition in the Civil Code, but that all companies do it a little differently and there is a certain degree of independence everywhere. That is why we do not see how that works when there is an infringement. That is why I think: let me put that to this cabinet. If they say they're just gonna take a serious look at it, I'm the first one to say I'm gonna hold the motion. I am not at all of the endless motions, votes and states. However, I would like to see whether we can not give a little more direction, given that scientific research has produced a brilliant figure for it, so she is not the least of the things that show that it is just a bit of a rabble everywhere, with all the good intentions but actually too little direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u178	Mr. Chairman. I see you looking. I do not know whether that is with an encouraging look or whether you want to say: sit down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u179	Well, let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad to hear that Mrs Van Toorenburg and I are on the same page and ask: was that necessary or not? I imagine we're asking that question. But a large-scale investigation into a national code of conduct... I now understand from the CDA colleague's answer that this is not the approach, but that it is precisely about providing more information and clear guidelines. I would therefore like to await the reaction of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u181	Exactly. Just on a basis of research to see if we can make these codes of conduct, the many flowers bloom, eventually not make one beautiful flower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u182	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u183	Mr. Chairman. I have missed an answer to my question about honour vengeance and a possible investigation into the Hindu community. The directors may decide for themselves who answers that question. I hope for a nice response to the FNV's investigation into sexual harassment in the workplace. I would also like to mention the list of schools which do not comply with the core objectives. I'm sure you'll be grateful for your commitment. Then there is only one motion left to me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only 11% of all sex offences are currently reported;]] [[noting that there is a significant increase in the number of reports of sex offences after #MeToo;]] [[Whereas Vice detectives are already under severe pressure, partly due to understaffing;]] [[calls on the government to increase the number of sex detectives by 100 FTE so that the quality of the work of sex detectives remains high and the perpetrators of sex crimes are dealt with,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u185	The last motion by Mr Jasper van Dijk will then be copied and distributed. I suggest we suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u186	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u187	Madam President. I'd like to answer two questions first. Mr Jasper van Dijk has rightly pointed out that in the fire of the debate I had not yet addressed his question about the investigation into abuse in the Hindu community. I would like to make a very clear appeal to victims to report to the police or to assist them. I would like to say that any victim who reports to the police can count on expert and careful handling of that report by a specialized vice detective. Mrs Yeşilgöz has asked: do victims of violence and sexual offences sufficiently know that they are entitled to lawyer assistance? This is a system that has been operating in this way since 1 April 2017: victims who make a report will receive a statement of rights. It's being handed over by the police. It includes all the rights of victims who are also discussed with them, including the right to free legal assistance by specialised victim lawyers for victims of violence and sexual offences. In addition, according to permanent protocols, Victim Aid Netherlands actively refers victims of crime to the right to legal aid. I would like to make a little bridge to the motions, because what I failed to report in my first term is that, following the motion tabled in November 2017 during the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security, it has been decided that there will be an investigation of the inspection which is currently running on this method of vice police. So we're already on our way. I understand that this research is expected to be completed this summer. That does not alter the fact that, in so far as the investigation does not cover the commitments I made earlier to Mrs Yeşilgöz, I naturally respect those commitments, because it would not be appropriate to do so differently. But then I come to the motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u188	Mr. Sjoerdsma, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u189	I have a brief question about what the Minister had promised to mention in the second term. It is a question of examining how to increase the reporting capacity. That's an investigation by his colleague, Minister Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u190	That question was asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u191	Then I have to take a look, because I believe you asked if that investigation could be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u192	Mr. Sjoerdsma, you may explain the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u193	Let me explain the question. You had promised to return to the question of whether it would be possible to provide the Chamber with a letter of further information on what the path towards achieving that action plan looks like and in what time period we can expect that action plan to be roughly estimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u194	I can live up to that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u195	Please continue. You were at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u196	First of all, I come to Mrs Özütok and Mrs Buitenweg's motion on item No. 6. I made my first commitment to Mrs Yeşilgöz and, in my view, to Mrs Özütok to evaluate the way in which she works. Part of it is now being investigated by the inspection on the basis of a previous motion. I would like to mention that as the first reason for the motion in part No. 6, because we're just going to see how it works out in practice. My position at the moment on what has happened is that there is no obstacle or discouragement. Those who report, let me say, are insecure, have doubts or are reluctant, are given the opportunity, after a lot of information and considerations, to look into whether they want to report after reflection on that doubt. There is therefore a policy of encouragement, by taking some time and by helping people in a good way. This means that the information conversation is being used in a good way to make more declarations. For this reason, I would advise against the motion, with the remark that we are really going to investigate the procedure. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11. I have already indicated that the figures do not reflect an increase. The police can totally handle it. Apart from that, we are now looking at the redistribution and expansion of FTEs in the police. I would advise against Mr Van Dijk's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u197	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u198	Thank you, Mr President. For the sake of time, I will try to go through the questions briefly, in order to be able to do justice to the motions as well. I have an open question from Mr Jasper van Dijk about the FNV's research into the role of executives and the trust and commitment to a safe culture. I will take good note of the research, study this and, where possible, take the lead in the investigation of the confidential persons. I also have a question open to me from Mrs Van Toorenburg, namely whether there is a more solid anchoring in the governance code and whether I can discuss it. I would like to convey your concern to the honourable Member of Economic Affairs, as well as your request for a letter, but that is as far as I can go. Then I come to the motions, first of all the motion by Mr Sjoerdsma and others. in piece No. 4. It might be good to point out that I am working from the SZW Inspection on working conditions and employers' policy in general. The Ministry of the Interior is the government employer and therefore the employer when we talk about ministries. I have indicated that I am reluctant to appreciate motions concerning colleagues' portfolios. I've been in touch with the Home Secretary. It indicated that it would like to send a letter before 8 March, in which data on the basis of existing investigations would become clear and in which an appreciation of the motion would be given. I would ask you to wait for this letter and to include it in the appreciation of the motion. I therefore request that the motion be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u199	If the motion is not held, what is the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u200	Then I'm gonna have to dissuade her because it's not my wallet. But there is a light at the end of the tunnel. It's a sympathetic motion, but the only reason I can't appreciate her is that it's not my portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u201	Let me get this straight. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State says: the Minister of State still comes with a real appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u202	It's about time, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u203	I think we can sit back and wait for that letter. It would be a good thing if it could come before the votes on 6 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u204	That's just before March 8th. Thank you. Then here is the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. in piece No. 4 apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u205	Yes. Then I come to Mrs Özütok's motion on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u206	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u207	The motion hasn't been held? Fine. It's a good thing you're still paying attention. It's almost midnight and we've had an exciting week. But this motion has not been held and will simply be on the voting list, hoping that a letter from the cabinet will be sent to the Chamber before then. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u208	The motion in part No. 5 is a motion that is very close to the substance of the plan we are making, but since it is prejudging the results of the investigation, I would ask the authors to hold the motion. If that doesn't work, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion from passing through the investigation. Then the motion to part No. 7, by Mrs Van den Hul, on the inclusion of trusted persons in the labour law system. At the moment I am conducting an investigation into the position of trusted persons and how to strengthen this position. This study also examines the legal position of trusted persons. I expect to be able to share the outcome of this survey with the Chamber before the summer. As with the previous motion, I do not wish to anticipate this and therefore recommend that this motion be retained. Otherwise, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade them. Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Özütok. That's the same thing. I wouldn't want to get ahead of that. That is why I call for this motion to be retained. Then I come to the motion on part No. 9, by Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Özütok on Risk Inventory & Evaluation. It is the employer's responsibility to draw up a RI&E that covers all the risks that arise in a company. You are right to say that PSA, including sexual harassment, is widespread. So it should have a place in many Risk Inventorys. Where this risk is involved, the Inspection SZW checks this and maintains it where necessary. However, it does not fit in the system of the RI&E to require one risk to be taken into account. This would also require a legislative amendment. But since I share the underlying idea, I am willing to ask for extra attention to include the risk in the Risk Inventory & Evaluation. There is even a week of RI&E between 11 and 16 June; that would be an extremely good opportunity for that. But I really shouldn't advise the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 10, by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Sjoerdsma. That is certainly also a sympathetic motion, but a generally accepted code of conduct must be discouraged at the moment. There is indeed a definition of what we are dealing with, and the Minister has also addressed it, but there are a number of sectors where different aspects of this problem come up, so it's custom-made. That's why I don't recommend the motion. That was the last motion, Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u209	Did you get all the motions? Thank you. Mr. Beertema?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u210	I had asked two questions very explicitly. One to justify such a large-scale investigation, because there would have been only one report so far. I don't know if that's true, but maybe you can confirm that. And a question about the cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u211	This also concerned the investigation at the ministries, which is also Home Affairs as an employer. So my suggestion would be to convey this request and to include it in the letter which also concerns the appreciation of Mr Sjoerdsma's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u212	The cost, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u213	Including the cost. I'll pass on that request, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-23.u214	Then we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the executives, the MPs, the assistants, the clerks, the officials, the messengers and the people who have followed this debate in a different way. We shall vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 6 March.
