ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the VAO Participation Act. A very warm welcome to the Secretary of State. First, I give the floor to Mr Renkema van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We're looking back on a good meeting with the Secretary of State. This consultation was a very important part of the government's decision not to introduce the remuneration allowance into the Participation Act. We're happy about that. The first motion of GroenLinks is about the instrument wage dispensation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is not going to use the instrument of salary dispensation in the Participation Act;]] [[noting that the instrument is now successfully deployed in the Participation Act;]] [[noting the government's commitment to as much uniform regulation as possible to help people with disabilities to work;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the conditions under which the instrument can be replaced by the labour cost subsidy in the Wajong,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	That's right. We look forward with interest to the Secretary of State's new plans. A broad offensive, as she calls it, is urgently needed. We are going to look constructively, but also critically at these new plans. There is an important role to be played by the established labour market regions and by the enterprises. This is what my second motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the placement of people in shelter is slow and insufficient people with a distance from the labour market are coming to work;]] [[noting that the working methods in the labour market regions are very different;]] [[considers that it is also necessary for a broad offensive to have a good picture of the current state of affairs;]] [[calls on the government to identify and inform the Chamber of Employment of people with disabilities by labour market region;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is delighted that the Secretary of State has returned to her decision of pay dispensation. We had the same motion as GroenLinks. We will no longer have to submit them, but we will certainly support those of GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of 45+ beneficiaries of assistance remains high, despite the booming economy and tighter labour market;]] [[invites the government to encourage people in the assistance in all municipalities to receive intensive personal guidance and training in their search for work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	50PLUS supports the call to give people with disabilities a legal right to the provision of services to social development companies. That is why 50PLUS will wholeheartedly support the motion that will be tabled by the PVV, so that SW companies can transform into social development companies, which help people with disabilities to work sustainably. That is very necessary and very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State for getting that pay dispensation off the table. That plan didn't have any support. But that doesn't change the fact that thousands of people are still on the sidelines, people with disabilities. I think that these people should also be able to get a place in those SW companies. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent SCP research shows that, following the introduction of the Participation Act, job opportunities for people with disabilities are almost halved;]] [[Considering that many social work facilities aim at as much flow as possible to regular employers and have the necessary knowledge and infrastructure to guide the target group of the Participation Act to work on a sustainable basis;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate a legal right of access to SW companies for all jobseekers who do not come to work through the job agreement or who rely on sheltered work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	I think it would be fine if the Secretary of State wanted to conduct this investigation in the context of the broad offensive. The second motion concerns the fact that there is still no collective agreement for people who do sheltered work, which was promised five years ago. Doesn't the Secretary of State and the Chamber, I would like to say, find that strange? Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is still no collective agreement;]] [[points out that an early conclusion of a collective agreement on sheltered work is desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	In abundance, I note that this is a statement from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	Exactly, that's right. So the Secretary of State won't have to pass judgment on that later. Mrs. Van Brenn has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	There was a question, and I would like to answer it. That's right. I find that strange. I believe that everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to a collective agreement, so that seems to me to be a good initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	Then we already have 50PLUS behind my call. I can't break my day anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	Good. Thank you to Mr Van Dijk. I call Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr President. We had a very good general discussion with the Secretary of State. D66 is also very happy that in the broad offensive to help people to work, the sheltered work is explicitly included. We are very curious about progress on sheltered work in the coming months. I am also very pleased with the commitment on young people in the Participation Act; young people under 27 years of age, often a forgotten group. I am very pleased that this group is being explicitly included. That's very important. I have one motion and I will make it on behalf of GroenLinks, on behalf of Mr Renkema. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that most beneficiaries respect the obligations associated with their benefits well;]] [[Whereas enforcement is nevertheless necessary in order to promote compliance and thus promote social security support;]] [[Whereas recent research carried out by the University of Groningen shows that the level of compliance in social security benefits not so much from "more', such as stricter penalties and higher fines, but from "smarter' enforcement tailored to the specific backgrounds and expectations of the beneficiary;]] [[calls on the Government to identify whether and, if so, how the lessons from this investigation can be used in enforcement practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	Do I hear D66 say: do you know, if you commit fraud with, for example, welfare benefits, then at the time you are caught we should take into account the background, the reason why you did so? Is that really what D66 is putting forward here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, it's not exactly that. We do not think that the way in which it is maintained is optimal, because we see that a number of municipalities are very keenly looking for welfare recipients, in the sense of: what beneficiaries of assistance are frauding? This study also shows that people in the assistance are not deliberately fraudulent. The rules are often very complicated. People don't understand them very well. There's no proper communication. All these factors play a role. If you, as a municipality, deal with this in a much smarter way, for example by better communicating and by taking those people with you more, you can help people much better than by strictly enforcing them. That is what we are asking for in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	Or if you have an apartment complex in Turkey for example. Or if you have a job, for example, while you're on welfare and you're not allowed to. Those are things that happen when fraud is committed. It's not just a case of someone misfiling a form. In fact, sometimes forms are deliberately misfilled, for example when it comes to whether or not you have possessions. Of course, it would be crazy if, at the time someone is caught on the basis of deliberate fraud, we had to look at how that happened, whether it was due to the rules, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	It's just about enforcement, isn't it? If you're doing welfare fraud and you're doing it consciously, you just need to get your ass kicked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u22	I couldn't agree more. If you are deliberately cheating as in the examples mentioned by Mr De Jong, this should simply be tackled. I am merely saying that fraud is often sought and that it turns out that people have indeed made a mistake, but that it is not always evil will. That's just what scientific research shows. I think it would be very good for municipalities to take into account the scientific insights that exist in scientific research; I didn't make it up myself as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thanks to the interruption of the PVV colleague, I know at least how the motion is not intended. Still, that word "background." I don't know if I should be in favour of this motion or against it. What does Mr Raemakers mean by the word "background"? What exactly does he mean by this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u24	You could interpret that very differently, so I understand the question. I think you should take a close look at questions like "in what situation is a beneficiary in?', "What's the whole background?" and "what are all the circumstances that apply in that case?'. For example, a person may have difficulty reading and writing because he or she has a low level of education or because he or she has been out of work for a few years. Those are things in the background that you have to take with you. Then you can say 'fraud has been committed here and someone has been deliberately fooled here', but often it is not. It is often about people who want to participate in the rules, but who simply cannot do so because of the personal circumstances and background.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u25	Exactly the fact that the word "background" is very broad to interpret makes me have some doubts about this motion. You really need to include the Acts of this little interruption debate in order to understand exactly what the motion means. Well, I'll take all the information back to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u26	There is another question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u27	Perhaps also to help Mr Raemakers a little, because I really do read the motion differently. I am reading it completely the other way than Mr Raemakers says, so perhaps the operative part can also be adjusted. I actually read: stricter penalties and people looking at things very effectively on the basis of backgrounds and other things. But Mr Raemakers means something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u28	That sounds like an encouragement to take another look at the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u29	We certainly want to take a sympathetic look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u30	Good. We now have Mrs Nijkerken, including this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yeah, 'cause I'm gonna use the word "expect." How are we supposed to understand how someone expected something in enforcement? So how does the enforcer deal with that? I think the rules are the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u32	I think we're repeating ourselves a little bit, because I'm actually referring to the same point. What does someone on welfare expect? Does that person know what to do? Does he know what the good things are to do? But again, we're repeating ourselves. Maybe it's good to take that scientific research. The motion does not ask for all kinds of words to weigh very heavily, but simply to take the insights from that investigation more into the enforcement practice of municipalities. It's actually helped everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr President, thank you very much. I think it is a very crazy motion that D66 has put forward, because it just literally says 'enforcement that is tailored to the specific backgrounds and expectations of the beneficiary'. So you commit fraud, which has been established after enforcement has taken place, and D66 simply says: yes, well, if someone has committed fraud, the specific background and expectations of the beneficiary must be taken into account. As soon as you apply for a benefit, it will be made clear what the expectations are for you as a beneficiary. Then you'll be made clear what the rules are. What D66 simply wants to go to is less enforcement. If someone has not deliberately committed fraud, this may happen in some cases, in some cases, and this can be looked at. This is already happening in practice, but the practice is also that there is frequent fraud with the assistance, where municipalities simply say that they do not maintain them, or that, for example, language requirements are not maintained. So I think it is a very crazy motion, especially since this is again a weakening of the enforcement of our social security. This motion will certainly not be able to count on the support of the PVV. But of course I do have another, beautiful motion about sheltered work, because that was also the subject of the AO's participation law. The PVV has often made it a point that we must do everything we can to ensure that we maintain these sheltered workplaces in the social workshops. Several motions have been tabled on this matter. Now I have a motion asking for the following. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain existing sheltered workplaces in any form whatsoever;]] [[calls on the existing infrastructure and knowledge of social work facilities to be used to create new sheltered workplaces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members De Jong, Van Brenk, Gijs van Dijk, Jasper van Dijk and Renkema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u36	I call Mr Peters of the CDA. He doesn't want to do that. Then we go on to Mr Bruins. You have also signed up for two minutes' speaking time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the debate during the AA. The Christian Union welcomes the move in this direction: a broad offensive to help more people with disabilities to work with labour costs subsidies. I feel like we've got a momentum. With all the parties involved, I have a great willingness to take real steps now. So this is the time to really get to work and come up with creative ideas. I therefore call on the State Secretary, in close consultation with municipalities, employers, trade unions and interest groups, to come up with firm plans and clear rules. A topic I would like to touch on in particular is the use of job coaches, because we still see too much that municipalities themselves employ job coaches or hire external professional job coaches. But there are also municipalities that finance job coaching internally with an employer. In particular, I find this last option very interesting, because people with disabilities often just need someone who guides them a bit on the work floor and who thus gives on the job coaching, within working hours and sometimes even outside. That's just someone standing by when it's necessary. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, municipalities should make much more use of the available resources, so that this internal support can be financed and so that, especially in the case of small employers, disabled people also get to work in this way. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities spend a lot of money on employing job coaches to help people with disabilities to work;]] [[Whereas it is useful to assess the effectiveness of municipal job coaches, externally hired job coaches and internal job coaches respectively at the employer;]] [[Whereas people with disabilities in particular need guidance in the workplace and it would be beneficial for employers to receive compensation for this;]] [[Whereas municipalities are not always familiar with the possibility of financing internal job coaches with employers;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to the possibility of financing employers' internal guidance for on the job coaching of people with disabilities in the context of the forthcoming broad offensive in consultation with labour market regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mr President. The pay dispensation is off the table. That's actually the very good news. It is also good that a Secretary of State who comes up with a plan and finds that there is no support in society and that there has been a lot of fuss about it, then withdraws the plan and says that she comes up with new plans. That's really good. But that does not solve the problem of many people with disabilities. We see it in all kinds of reports: a lot of people are still at home. They really want to get to work, but they don't get to work and they don't get to work. That's a really big problem. The Participation Act as we have all meant, says that everyone should be able to get to work, whatever one's background is and whether someone has a disability or not. Because that makes you a fully-fledged human being; that allows you to move on. That is why it is important that we continue with the social development companies in new forms, and so will the Secretary of State. That's why I want to encourage her with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with disabilities can sometimes fall between shore and ship;]] [[Whereas it is important that people with disabilities work according to their potential;]] [[noting that various organisations, such as the Economic and Social Council, trade union movement and Cedris, advocate a social development company and that there are already several good examples of this;]] [[calls on the government to consider with municipalities and other interested parties how the social development company can be further developed, as a stepping stone to work, as a place where you can work in a sheltered environment and as a place where you can fall back if you fail at the company where you work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. My last comment is about sheltered work. Luckily, with the removal of the pay dispensation, 20,000 additional sheltered workplaces will also disappear. So I would like to call on the cabinet to reconsider that. I know it's not "over a night of ice," but it's really important that we create a good place for all those people with sheltered work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Finally, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitments during the last general consultation on questions from both the VVD and the SP. She said she would look at how thresholds resulting from raising the own contribution for people who depend on a provision for working can be limited to what is necessary. It may seem a small thing, but I would like to stress once again that for someone who is blind, for example, and therefore dependent on certain transport to come to work, the costs should not be so high or ultimately it is no longer worthwhile to go to work or to work more. Having said that, I would like to table two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the aim is to create 125,000 additional jobs for people with disabilities, but the distinction between government and the market in the employment agreement is an obstacle to this goal;]] [[Whereas the objective of 125,000 job guarantees for people with disabilities remains unchanged and this is a joint responsibility of both government and market;]] [[noting that employment as a result of public procurement does not currently count for the job deal;]] [[calls on the government, following the broad offensive, to help more people with disabilities to work, to adapt the employment agreement and quota arrangements so as to make it easier for employers in both the market and the government to create jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the distinction between the market and the government so as to allow for the inclusion of jobs through procurement and no longer matter whether a job counts in the government or the market;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from taking irreversible steps and/or to incur costs in the current system during the transition from the current approach to this new approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Peters, Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr President, now for the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a strong need for everyone in the current labour market;]] [[noting that research shows that 62% of beneficiaries of assistance experience an "informal exemption" whereas only 10% of people have a formal exemption;]] [[noting that there is a large difference between the experienced exemptions and the formal waiver;]] [[Whereas at present it is not sufficiently clear what the so-called "informal exemption" means for the mediation of welfare recipients to work;]] [[calls on the Government to identify what the "informal exemption" means, how this exemption relates to the formal waiver and what this can mean for the employment of welfare recipients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de Haan and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u43	I have a question about this motion. The word "informal exemption" suggests that an exemption is granted by someone. Does Mrs Nijkerken mean that the municipality grants such an informal exemption or approves something? Or does Mrs Nijkerken mean that it is the citizen who thinks he or she has an informal exemption, without the municipality or the UWV saying anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u44	That last one. That is strange in itself, when you see that only 10% have a real formal exemption. Then what's the difference? How, then, is it possible that there is contact, or perhaps not, that is now the question between, for example, municipalities and welfare recipients to support people towards work? How is it possible that people experience that they are not obliged to look for work as well? That's what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u45	I am left with the question of what exactly is informal about this exemption, if it is not communicated from the municipality. Can Mrs Nijkerken explain that? What is the informal element from the municipality or any other authority? What's informal about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u46	So that's what Divosa has been investigating, and you've been able to read all that. Apparently, people who are on welfare experience that they have no obligation to apply. That is what they call the "informal exemption" in that investigation, and that is what my question to the Secretary of State is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u47	My question concerns the previous motion. Perhaps you could explain why you do not need to distinguish between the market and the government? Both had a quota, they had to meet certain numbers. You're suggesting we stop doing that. Can you explain why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u48	Because for me, a job is a job, and eventually it doesn't matter if someone with a disability works at a market or works in the government. At the moment, we have rigged up a whole system for this, which, in my view, stands in the way of creating jobs. Purchasing now, for example, doesn't count. I think that's a shame, because in the end it's all about getting as many people to work as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u49	Yes, but we also want to appeal to employers, don't we? I think that's important. We have seen that the government was mainly left behind. That's what we're talking about, for example, the government. Well, then it's nice to know who does and who doesn't deliver. 'Cause then you can poke them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u50	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u51	You can still do that. You don't have to keep the difference between the market and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u52	The VVD wants to eliminate the distinction between the market and the government. We can have another debate on that. Anyway... What concrete consequences does this have for quotas, if it is up to the VVD? Is the quota system still in place? So there must now be 125,000 jobs created by both the market and the public authorities on penalty if they do not succeed in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u53	Together, yes. It is, of course, to be hoped that we never really have to impose the quota. What matters is that we agree that more jobs should be created for people with disabilities. The figure of 125,000 remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u54	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u55	I have a question about that. This figure has been slightly above the objectives that exist for years. Meanwhile, we see that the realisation of the number of jobs really lags behind with kilometres of distance. Then what's the point of this motion for those people specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u56	I think we're still in line when we look at the total numbers, but we're gonna have to adjust the leg to keep it that way. Again, for me, it doesn't matter whether people with disabilities go to work with the government or the market. The target of 125,000 jobs also remains unchanged. We fully support this. It is only around that that we are now rigging a whole process, to see where exactly those jobs will end up. We say, "Don't do that now, make sure it doesn't matter." The market will benefit from this, too, in order to be able to continue to realise these numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr De Jong, second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u58	I'm looking for the answer to the question: what does it change specifically for people who are now on the sidelines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u59	It increases their chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u60	Well, it increases their chances... There's nowhere in the motion that's specifically arranged for those people. I want to look at a solution to the fact that so many people are still on the sidelines. I am so afraid that this is more of a paper motion and that it does not do anything for the reality of people at home. Are people gonna get more work done by this motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u61	I am convinced that this motion really increases the chances for this group of people. It's something Cedris has argued for, for example, and employers are asking for. They all say: we really want to, but make sure it all gets a little less complicated. Well, this is the first step in simplification to increase those opportunities. And that's what I'm doing it for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs a little less than ten minutes to answer her question. So I'm suspending until 2:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u63	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input, not only during this VAO, but certainly also during the general consultations we had with each other on 12 September. A consultation that clearly showed that we are all committed to the inclusive labour market that we desperately need for those who are sidelined and for whom it is not self-evident because they have a labour restriction. If possible, we would like to help people to work with a regular employer and, if necessary, in a sheltered working environment. The conditions for achieving this can and must be improved. I'm sure of it. And indeed, a number of MPs referred to this. Perhaps the great news of the general consultation was that I took back the intention to introduce pay dispensation into the Participation Act. As far as I am concerned, the message of this general consultation is that we need a broad offensive to put our hands on each other, because it is not self-evident. A broad offensive is needed to make work pay, to take care of employers and to bring employers and employees together. I noticed during the general consultation, but also outside the discussions with people from the target group and with civil society organisations, that this belief is widely shared. Your Chamber has just given me a number of points of interest in the form of motions. Since we have had such a very constructive discussion, I am also trying very constructively to deal with these motions and I would like, perhaps with some suggestions, to see if we can find each other. As I have indicated in general consultation, I come before the SZW budget with an impact of this broad offensive. I also see the debate we had with each other as an actor for that effect. It is a pity, then, that I have to start by dissuading Mr Renkema's first motion, the motion in part No. 117 on pay dispensation in the Wajong. In general consultation I have indicated that I want to make working pay for people and simpler for employers. Wage dispensation in the Participation Act, in the effect that we had to get to the WML, ultimately does not succeed. But in the context of the Wajong, pay dispensation works. However, we also have homework for the Wajong, because the Wajong must also be made rewarding and simpler for Wajongers, employees, employers and implementation. There are about 17,000 people currently working in the Wajong with pay dispensation. If I were to introduce wage subsidies there, it would make the implementation of the Wajong more complex, because there would be an instrument and there would also be other rules of the game. For example, a capital test and a partner test were included in the Participation Act. Those are things that don't apply to the Wajong. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u65	The motion in part No. 117 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u66	On the other hand, I would like the motion in part No. 118 enthusiastically give the judgment Chamber. One of the most important aspects of this impact is that work must be done, including in those labour market regions. I would therefore very much like to look at this and certainly also at the differences between labour market regions in order to make them learn from each other. Mr Renkema specifically mentioned the regional Work Company. I think it is good to zoom in on that, but there are, of course, other partners, such as SW companies, social development companies, we say today, which play a role in this. So if I could take the motion a little wider, I'd be happy to give it to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u67	The motion in part No. 118 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u68	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 119 by Mrs Van Brenk. Mrs Van Brenk has previously tabled motions which have not been adopted, but which have been carried out, so she is now, of course, listening very carefully. I have a proposal for Mrs Van Brenk. In this motion, it invites the government to encourage people in the assistance to receive intensive personal guidance and training in their search for work. If I had to interpret the motion so specifically, it would be very difficult and I would have to discourage it. But if Mrs Van Brenk would be inclined to turn it into "invites the government to promote tailor-made assistance to people in all municipalities in their search for work," I can give the motion judgment Chamber. For I agree with her that it is indigestible that there are so many people in welfare, without work. In fact, there's no attention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mrs Van Brenk, what is your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u70	I would like to amend the motion in that way so that it can be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u71	The motion in part No. 119 is adapted and the Court is then left to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yes, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 120 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. I must indeed discourage the motion in this form. That's in the legal right to access the SW companies. We have also had an exchange of views on this before. I have already said in the debate that SW companies play a good and important role in helping people to get started. That's what they do with sheltered work. That's what they do with the job deal. A legal right of access to SW companies goes too far for me, but I have also seen that the SP voted in favour of the Buma motion at the General Political Reviews. This means that I am giving this issue a very important place in the elaboration of the broad offensive. Although I advise against this motion, I hope that with what we end up with, it will be an important place for these companies at the service of the people for whom they work to a large extent to accommodate the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u73	The motion in part No. 120 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u74	At the motion in part No. 121 Mr Jasper van Dijk looked very closely at me. So I'm not saying anything about that. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u75	That's up to the Chamber, that's right. Then the motion to part No. 122.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u76	That is the motion by Mr Raemakers and Mr Renkema. The interrupting debate that was held on this subject also shows a bit of my internal struggle on this issue. I would like to take a look at this motion with Mr Raemakers. I would not like to say that there is a contradiction between more enforcement and smarter enforcement. Strong enforcement, smart enforcement, as far as I'm concerned, it's and-and. I would also like to make that very clear in the context of the opinion I can give. Then it is true that this investigation is now also known by the Ministry. We're studying that. We want to weigh that, too. Of course I'd really like to look at what works. What works for people in welfare, but how do we do justice to the feeling that there is living in society? Then enforcement does indeed have a signaling function. So I would like to draw attention to the stage at which the investigation is still in progress. So if Mr Raemakers could say that it is not a matter of staying firm and smart, but that it is both important, if he could say that we are on the same page, then under those conditions I could leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u77	Sure, then we're on the same page. I think it is also mainly about what is in the operative part. It invites the government to take the lessons that are very nuanced in that investigation. The point is that the Secretary of State should take a look at what is a useful way of taking and applying lessons from that research. So that's why I'd certainly like to give the Secretary of State all the freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u78	The judgment on the motion in part No. 122 is left to the Chamber. But I see that Mr De Jong does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mr President, I am not in favour of that, but I can, of course, ask a clarifying question. The motion states "maintainment tailored to the specific backgrounds and expectations of the beneficiary." So you've committed fraud, then you get caught and then you look at the specific background and expectations of the beneficiary. But at the time when you get a welfare allowance, it's very specific what you can and can't do, whether or not you can have possessions, whether or not you can do all kinds of things that are contrary to welfare? And now this VVD Secretary of State says: you know, I actually agree; I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u80	It is not for nothing that I indicated that the debate on the interruption here very much appealed to my basic attitude on this issue. I think it is important not only to be clear about enforcement, but also to be clear about the signal you are sending to society. At the same time, there has also been an exchange in the Interrupt debate that, for example, if someone is low-lettered and has a slightly intellectual disability, you talk to someone instead of just putting it on paper. That would be a category on which I say: if municipalities then hold the discussion, that could be a solution. I read the motion very carefully. It says: "Asks the government to visualize whether and, if so, how..." Because of the word 'or', to see whether we will continue to do justice to both a firm enforcement policy and its signaling function towards benefit recipients and society, I can leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. So I certainly cannot anticipate how we will ultimately weigh this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr De Jong, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u82	Such a motion goes beyond the request, of course. There are also considerations. These considerations state "specific backgrounds and expectations of the beneficiary'. Now it is true that municipalities themselves are very often lax with the enforcement of fraud. Leaving that aside, of course it's up to a municipality when someone says "I really can't do anything about this," and then there are always opportunities to see if they can come out together. But here it is simply said that we need to look at the specific background and the wishes of someone who has committed fraud. That can never be the policy of this cabinet, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u83	Your point is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u84	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u85	Then we move on to the motion in part no. 123.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u86	The motion in part No. 123 is the motion on the existing sheltered workplaces. Now it is true that people retain their rights. So you're entitled to sheltered work. We want people to get to work as regularly as possible, and if sheltered work is needed, that has to be done. Eventually, municipalities determine how they shape this. They often use SW companies there. So in order to institutionalize a number of workplaces, I don't think the order is right. It's about the people who use it. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u87	The motion in part No. 123 is not recommended. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u88	This motion calls for existing sheltered workplaces to be maintained in any form whatsoever. It does not say'social workshops'; of course I am in favour of keeping social workshops open, but that is not what this motion says. This motion calls for 'preserved workplaces'. Does this Secretary of State now say that she does?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u89	I have indicated that if someone is entitled to a sheltered workplace, that is a right that you retain, and that then the municipality must deliver it. What we did before was think in organizations. I am trying to shape the whole debate on this in such a way that we focus the organisations on the people who need it. So it's not about maintaining the workplaces, it's about maintaining jobs for people who need sheltered work. And then it's about the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u90	Okay. So then this Secretary of State says, "No, I'm not trying to keep sheltered workplaces," because that's a place where someone who has a sheltered work indication works, but that he has to work? I agree that people have to work, but if people are in a sheltered workplace, shouldn't it be the Secretary of State's goal to protect that place from that person?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yeah, but the right to sheltered work is already a right. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 124. This motion by Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers I give 'judgement chamber'. Personal guidance is part of the broad offensive. I would also like to take this opportunity to zoom in with employers and municipalities on what can and can be done better. I would like to return to this point in the letter on the broad offensive that I am sending to the Chamber for the budget debate. In doing so, I give this motion "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u92	The motion in part No. 124 gets "judge chamber." Then the motion to part No. 125.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u93	The motion No. 125 by Mr Gijs van Dijk is about the social development company. I could also look with Mr Gijs van Dijk to see if we could get together on the phrase 'calls on the government to consider with municipalities and other interested parties how to develop the social development business further'. At the moment, I would like to gather the ideas and then let them land on that broad offensive. So I don't want to take all those turns right now. If he's willing to make "how" "or how" here, then I can give the motion "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mr Gijs van Dijk, are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u95	Yeah, I'd like to do that. But I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that this motion I tabled is actually a follow-up to the motion tabled by Mr De Jong with the entire opposition. It doesn't really say anymore, so I'm looking, because I think we might be talking along each other than there are now sheltered workplaces, which are preserved. In fact, there's more sheltered work, we're going to 30,000 places. That's assumption one. Assuming two is: we are going to further shape that social development company, with all kinds of new functions, just as the SER says. That's what I'm describing more precisely in this motion. I'll adjust her. But I would like to call on the Secretary of State to take a closer look at the motion in part No. 123 by Mr De Jong and several members from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u96	But we're talking about your motion now, and that's the motion in part No. 125. You're willing to change these along the line of the Secretary of State. Then she will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u97	Maybe it's good to say the following about that. It is said that the same goal is being pursued. We could, of course, be so constructive as to see if it could still be braided together at all. I'm very willing to think along. I stopped at a certain point at the motion in part no. 123. We have just taken the step of the social work company as an institute to the development business as a place where people come to work. That step is quite difficult, because it also gives a lot of uncertainty to the target group. I do not want us to create a new situation now by setting sheltered work as an institution. At that point, I stopped at the motion in part No. 123. But if you can agree and it is in line with the motion in part No. 125, then I am quite prepared to give a constructive cooperation exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u98	That's a handout from the Secretary of State. I call Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u99	It says: "calls on the government to maintain existing sheltered workplaces in any form whatsoever." That means that what I have said in other motions about the social workshop still stands. I still do. But this motion says "shut up workplaces." If another motion on sheltered workplaces is left to the opinion of the Chamber, then it would be nice if that would also apply to PVV motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u100	I'm gonna make it real concrete. Suppose a municipality has ten sheltered workplaces where people pack irritable chocolates, which is a form of sheltered work, and that factory should close at some point and then there will be another form of sheltered work. If we had adopted this motion, people would not be able to go to another workplace. That's how I read the motion. But I am concerned that those ten people who are working there are being helped by that municipality, which is obliged to do so, in a meaningful and sheltered workplace. That's why I had to discourage this motion. But if you can agree, I am very willing to think constructively about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'd rather go on. Perhaps it is an idea that the signatories of that motion will consult each other. Then you can consider the suggestion made by the Secretary of State. I understand that the Secretary of State will stand by her judgment and that she will advise against the motion as it has now been formulated. Mr. De Jong, I have given you ample opportunity to debate this and ask questions. You may make one comment very briefly now and then we shall proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u102	Mr President, thank you very much for the space I have now. I really appreciate that. Secretary of State, what I don't understand is this. I filed that motion. I gave that a connotation. I am concerned that people who have been assigned a sheltered workplace can also continue to work in a sheltered workplace. What we see is that someone like him is fired, can't get a sheltered workplace anymore. That's what I'm saying now. So it's in the Acts. So it's clear what I mean by this. That's the same as what the Labour Party put forward. That is why the motion is also co-signed by the Labour Party. So I don't see why I should change my motion. I'm just gonna keep the motion, but I'm gonna ask for a verdict on my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u103	I have to read the motion literally, because it will eventually be voted on. Even when I say to others 'in this way I can leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber', there must be a text change. It says here: "calls on the government to maintain existing sheltered workplaces." If I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber and it is then adopted, we will create new institutions, when it comes to the people who occupy the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u104	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u105	I would like to say to Mr De Jong that I am very willing to discuss this, to see if we can get closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u106	We'll find out. Let's go to the motion on part number one. 126.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u107	The motion in part No. 126 by Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan and Mr Peters, Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers. Let me say one thing in advance. For me, the consideration that the objective of 125,000 job guarantees remains unchanged is very important. It is a joint effort between government and the market. That is very crucial to me in the judgment I am going to give. I would like to ensure that employers have more opportunities to create additional jobs while reducing administrative burdens. I also indicated in my offensive that I would like to simplify the job deal further. It should be possible for jobs filled through the purchase of services to be included in the purchasing employer and for the borrowing administration to become redundant. I'll share that. It's gonna save you a lot of trouble. And time and energy, which can be used to help people work. It would also be good to reward employers who employ more people with disabilities than the number agreed. That is why I can give the 'judgement chamber' motion, expressly under the condition that government employers continue to hold their responsibilities. I will therefore discuss this with the Minister of the Interior. I interpret the motion in such a way that if it is adopted, I will ask UWV and the Tax Administration to put their work on the borrowing administration and the quota levy for the public sector on hold until we know what it will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u108	The motion in part No. 126 gets "Judgment Room."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u109	It is a very heavy motion, because this is a good way to turn the job deal upside down. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she is going to ensure that the objective of 125,000 genuine guarantee jobs is maintained by the government and the market, and so we are preventing this from being a trick to make it easier to get those figures because the purchase can now be counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u110	I have explicitly started the assessment of this motion by saying that this is crucial for me. I think it is extremely important that we complete and keep this agreement. As far as I am concerned, I shall return to this motion. I've already said that I see it as an actor for the effect. Then we must have found a mode for this, because it cannot be that there is less at the bottom of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mr Van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u112	I also have a short question. If I read this motion very cynically, I say we're going to help the government now. The government hasn't done enough. That is a disgrace to all of us. In order to eliminate the distinction between the market and the government, we are helping the government and we are not going to impose fines on the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u113	I have said many times to government organisations myself: you must get to work. You have a responsibility. We've made a deal about that, too. That's why I'm going to talk to the Home Secretary about this. It cannot be that if this motion is adopted, people will sit back and think: another will do it. I take this explicitly as a gauntlet, with the task of making the broad offensive more simple, ensuring that there is no unnecessary energy going to all kinds of administrative situations, but to creating jobs, and that the agreement is kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u114	Finally, the motion in part No. 127. Mrs. Van Brenk, do you have a question that hasn't been asked yet? Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u115	Very briefly. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State how we can check later on whether the Empire fulfils its obligations. So far we have seen that the government is always lagging behind. I think that is very important in order to be able to weigh very well whether I can vote for or against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u116	I hope you will find that it is really an issue for me that the government also delivers and honours its commitments. I regard it as a matter of honour that I have a good effect on the broad offensive. 'Cause we have to keep the deal. What I do see now is that I agree with the authors of this motion that all kinds of energy is being lost, either to explain why you are not getting there or to all kinds of situations that prevent people from getting to work. We're gonna have to get rid of that. I therefore consider this motion to be an order to see if it can be simpler, but under the condition that the agreement on the numbers remains valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u117	The effect of this motion could be that the government is not going to achieve those goals, an unintentional effect, as it were. That's a concern I have. Do you share that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u118	The concern I have now is that... Mr De Jong said that the total number of jobs left behind. When I look at the job deal, about 3,000 jobs have been achieved more than should have been done, most of them through the market. At the same time, we see all kinds of energy disappearing in suboptimal processes, to put it that way. In the light of time, I will not go into too much detail. I am concerned about the way things are going, and I am also worried that everyone will be busy explaining why they didn't get something instead of creating jobs. So I see this motion as an opportunity to make that deal. It's about people coming to work to make it simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u119	Then the motion to part No. 127.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u120	Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan has tabled a motion on an informal exemption, on the investigation of clients of the Participation Act, of which 62% indicated that they feel exempted from the application and reintegration obligation. I have already indicated that I think that percentage is high, too high and worrying. I'm not okay with this. It can't be that people are standing by the side and don't think they're needed anymore, when we really need everyone. It is therefore also important that action be taken on this. I will therefore ask the Inspection SZW to consider whether, on the basis of the information already collected, more insight can be gained into the experience this specific group has in terms of contact with and support by the municipality. Also in the next measurement I will ask the Inspection SZW to report specifically on this group, how they experience contact with and support by the municipality. I also see a link to Mrs Van Brenk's motion about the 45-plussers. It can't be that people feel sidelined. In addition, I am currently conducting research among a number of municipalities that have invested in better portraying the group of people receiving assistance, but which they have not spoken to for a long time. The question is whether this approach means what it has cost, but also what it has earned. Yes. The lessons that can be learned from these studies, I want to spread widely to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u121	So the motion in part No. 127 gets "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u123	This brings us to the end of the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u124	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
