ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the broad development of purchasing power in 2018. This 30-member debate has been requested by Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS and I would like to ask her as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. Mrs Van Brenk, you will have three minutes' speaking time, and the other Members will have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This year's average positive purchasing power picture is beautiful for many people, but it should not hide the fact that too many people who do not feel purchasing power in their wallets and have been declining for years due to inflation, rising healthcare costs, rents and other fixed charges, municipal taxes and over ten years of absence of pension indexing. The rise in wealth of 3% this year is still too low in terms of disposable purchasing power growth. The Minister is right that, while the real wage of workers is more favourable in terms of the development of gross domestic product, it gives a very limited insight into the purchasing power experienced by people. For this is how 22% of pensioners experience a negative purchasing power development in 2018. For workers, who still get mostly a plus, this is still 12%; so 12% who have no purchasing power development. I also see this cabinet having little enthusiasm for civil servants to share in purchasing power. The distribution of national income after tax for individuals, companies and government does not say much about purchasing power, because what do people feel in the wallet? That's what we're talking about. Unfortunately, good average figures do little for the purchasing power of many. The suggestion of the director of the Central Planning Bureau, Laura of Spirit, that politics is too guided by purchasing power pictures, does not help either. Can the Minister explain how people can take full advantage of economic growth and prosperity if the labour income ratio has been falling for years now, consumer spending, despite the improvements made over the past year, is still relatively lagging behind and the number of people employed by the food banks continues to grow? And that's certainly not from wealth. The social minimum is too often inadequate, especially for people who are longer dependent on it. The proportion of households at long-term risk of poverty has even increased. Looking at pensioners we see that, despite a more favourable macro-buying power picture, many older people still do not have it wide due to a accumulation of negative effects of policies. It was, and unfortunately it still is. Look at the new purchasing power figures. Measures are needed. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. In addition, the sole earners and the single people are therefore overburdened with widows. That division can and must be different. What does this minister say to the people who depend on Wajong or WIA benefits or to the people who will soon have to settle for pay? They're running backwards. What do you mean, the purchasing power's going well? What is the Minister's response to this? Finally, Mr President. As far as we are concerned, new pension reductions that are threatening must be avoided. And that is perfectly possible with the proposal that 50PLUS has made. Preventing pension reductions is necessary, otherwise it will be very hard on purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. There is an interruption by Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS is quite right to mention a number of measures that we are taking to ensure that people feel that things are getting better. At the same time, it points to the position of older people. I would like to put another image against that. We have in the Netherlands one of the best pension systems in the world. We have the best healthcare system in Europe. Older people in the Netherlands are the most prosperous in Europe. The Netherlands is one of the best places in the world to grow old and the chance of poverty in the Netherlands is also one of the lowest in all of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	My question would be: not just sketch that negative image, but look at it. I would like to ask Mrs Van Brenk: would you advise your constituents to move to a country other than the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	There is no better country than the Netherlands, of course, because that is where we live...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	... but I would very much like to make the picture, the nuance Mr Wiersma hopes to put in my speech, a little sharper. The greatest risk of poverty is that we have dealt with this a few times already, and it is precisely the 55-plussed group that is out of work. They have the greatest risk of poverty. Let me just quote: the purchasing power of pensioners was almost the same in 2015 as in 2000, while other groups are improving on balance during that period. Those are not the words of 50PLUS, but of the CBS in 2016. After fifteen years you're back at the level of 2000, so don't tell me that all the older people have improved so much. They really stove backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. A brief follow-up question from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	The CBS has shown figures on this specific theme. You can see that the difference between the elderly and the rest of the population is growing in this area. 2.6% of the elderly have low incomes. On average, this is more than 8% about society. You can see that these differences are getting bigger. That does not mean that we should trivialize that or that we should not make any efforts to help older people find work. We also need a good pension system, which is why we are renewing it. But don't just present that black and white image that it's bad and things aren't going well, because I don't think you can name a country where it's better than in the Netherlands, where an older person would like to live. In my view, we should also be very bold to bring that nuance into this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	Sure. Fortunately, we have an AOW, because not everyone has a pension. It is good that there is a pension and we hope that it can finally be indexed. I hope that the renewal that Mr Wiersma desires will also be realized, but I will say it again: on the basis of the figures, the Central Planning Office indicates that 25% of tenants between 65 and 85 years of age have less than €2,000 in their bank accounts. That's not enough to pay for your funeral. Sure, there are people who are good. That's fantastic, I would like to give them a heartfelt welcome, but let's also look at the people who don't have it right. We have to make sure that it goes in the right direction for them too. Buying power, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then we go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party. You too have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr President. In the worldview of the VVD we now leave the room in polonaise, because the Netherlands is doing great. I'd like to believe that, but a lot of people don't feel that way. I think that is at the heart of this debate, so we should, above all, continue to have that debate. Mr. Chairman. I have three points for this debate. My first point is that the Netherlands is doing well: there is economic growth and companies are making profits again. On the other hand, I believe that we can see together that this is a problem and we share that analysis that many people who work or have a benefit do not yet notice enough. Mrs Van Brenk rightly says: yes, there is some growth, but the burden on many people is increasing. This is the Minister of Social Affairs. He is responsible for the purchasing power plates of all those people in the Netherlands. My first question to the Minister is what he is going to do in his period to help people with low incomes and people with benefits in particular. Because in the 2018 pictures, too, they are making the least progress, while they are getting the hardest hits from higher energy bills or higher healthcare spending. What is the ambition of this minister for the coming period? Mr. Chairman. The government has an exemplary role, because the government is a very large employer. From teachers, from police officers, from civil servants. And we heard Prime Minister Rutte. Everyone's getting better. We're gonna have to raise wages. There's gonna have to be a paywave. We heard De Nederlandsche Bank. It is deeply concerned about the slowness of wage developments and points to increasing flexibility. People don't notice that economic growth. This cabinet does opt for a large investment in companies, but what is this government employer going to do to make sure that all those hard-working teachers, those police officers who are struggling with high workload and limited wage growth, are aware of that? The cabinet accounts for about 3% growth per year. That would mean that in four years' time, after this cabinet period, people will improve 12%. What is this minister going to do and what does he reserve for spending when it comes to growth for all those hard-working people in the public sector? Finally, everyone is making progress, but the cabinet makes an exception for people with disabilities. 500 million cuts, working under minimum wage, no retirement, you have to dare. This is reflected in every debate. The Minister himself, like the Prime Minister, says that everyone is getting better. Is he prepared to withdraw this hard cut and come back with an alternative that fits the basis that I think we all share: that everyone is part of it and everyone above the minimum wage should work including retirement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. Then we will go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mr Van Kent of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. For decades, the Netherlands has been governed by neoliberal politicians, with the result that everything is done to make international capital as attractive as possible to settle in the Netherlands. Examples of this are endless. The gift of the 1,400 million to shareholders, keeping the cost of labour low, by allowing workers to compete with migrant workers, byzzp'ers and rightless day laborers who are employed through all kinds of constructions, and so on, and so on. This Minister, too, bows deeply to international capital. Public expenditure is falling due to an irresponsible and extremely rapid increase in the age of AOW and workers' rights are being reduced further in order to further reduce wages. Everything at the service of the big companies, with the result that the profits of the companies break records. Since 1995, the profits of the non-financial sector have been maintained. Those profits are 218 billion in 2017. Mr President, EUR 218 billion in profits, a record since 1995. Where companies benefit, employees, AOWs and benefit recipients see no progress because these benefits are linked to wages and salaries. Since 2001, real purchasing power has not even increased at all, according to the Millions Note. Employees who, for example, have a job in sport or catering or who work through a temporary agency, have been able to spend up to 9% less since 2001. And the Dutch Bank, the CPB, the IMF, VNO-NCW and yes, even our Prime Minister say that wages should be raised. But he's not gonna intervene. In fact, this cabinet continues on the neoliberal road, because while De Nederlandsche Bank finds that insecure work reduces wages, this minister wants more insecure flex work, for example through a longer probation period and the dismantling of protection against unfair dismissal. And employees will have to wait another year for a firm and certain contract. Is the Minister prepared to withdraw these measures, which lead to lower wages? If everyone says that wages should be raised, why does the government give Mr Van Dijk a good example? What is the Minister going to do to make sure that this happens? VNO-NCW boss De Boer says he's not awake from the 3% wage increase. What increase in wages is the lower limit for this minister? Is the Minister prepared to call on employers and workers to comply with that lower limit and to ensure the wagewave, that wage increase, which is so badly needed? Finally, Mr President. In the 1970s and 1980s a wage measure was used to force employers and employees to reduce wages. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether this means, a wage measure, can be used as a stick behind the door to force wages to rise? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Özdil van GroenLinks. You also have three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since World War II, the economy has grown structurally. Since then, people's purchasing power has always grown. That's why people had faith in the future. If you had a job, you didn't have to worry if your kids were gonna get better. That was the Dutch dream. That's how we built a middle class. Mr. Chairman. I deliberately say "that was," because for more and more people, that dream is now over. Nowadays you have a job, sometimes even two jobs. Still, you're having more and more trouble getting by. It's no longer self-evident that your children are going to get better. Since about the year 2000, people's purchasing power has not increased with economic growth. Our middle class threatens to erode slowly but surely. What's the explanation? Is it a law of nature? Are crises the cause? That alone cannot be an explanation, I ask the Minister, because the economy will continue to grow. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to look at policies. Since the 1980s there has been almost no year without wage moderation. You don't have to believe me on my blue eyes, Mr. Chairman. Even the IMF says it: cut the hand-to-hand cut policy; it is high time that wages went up again in the Netherlands. I have, of course, summarized it in my own words. Mr. Chairman. In response to my questions about the IMF's recommendations, the Minister writes: "It is advisable to build buffers precisely in these good times so that public finances are more resistant to economic counterwinds." People at home don't get it anymore. Politics says the economy is doing well, so hand on the cut. But when things didn't go well economically, people were told exactly the same thing: there is a crisis, so hand on the cut. In other words, the ordinary woman and the common man are always screwed, whether the economy is right or not. That's not fair. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to real wage increases and not to wait on the sidelines for the social partners to do it? Finally, Mr President. I hope the Minister is not going to say that the purchasing power is well now. I hope the Minister is not going to say that purchasing power will increase by 3.6% in 2018 and by 3.1% in 2019, because Het Financieele Dagblad called those figures the figures of an illusionist. "Illusionist Wouter Koolmees sees much more purchasing power than hardworking Dutchman," says the newspaper. According to the CPB definition, purchasing power will increase by only 0.6% in 2018 and by only 1.6% in 2019. My last question is therefore: what about it? Does the Minister agree with the definition of the CPB? Or does the Minister agree with the definition he himself made up and which, according to Het Financieele Dagblad, creates an entirely new reality that really doesn't exist? If the Minister agrees with his own definition, then my question is: what is the difference with the CPB definition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. Mr Van Weyenberg is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think the Minister's letter mainly showed that fortunately hundreds of thousands of people also find work. Finding work is the best and greatest increase in purchasing power that can happen to someone. That's unrelated to the happiness of finding a job after times of unemployment. I assume that Mr Özdil agrees with me. But my question is about something else. Mr Özdil just said in a subtlety: the minister should not wait for the social partners, but should take his own responsibility. Is that the generic new line of GroenLinks when it comes to the labour market and social security? I find it interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	Of course, I agree with my colleague from D66 that work is the basis of purchasing power, of progress, of a strong middle class, of hope. The only question is, what kind of work? Are they more and more so-called "flex jobs" where you don't know if you have a job tomorrow? Are they jobs that yield so little that even if you have two jobs and your partner has one, you can't get around without debt? We call for real jobs, jobs that offer prospects. I hope my colleague from D66 agrees with me on that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	That is why, as far as I am concerned, there is a very good start in a draft legislative proposal which shows that, unlike the previous one, this cabinet is finally going to tackle flex, but that aside. My question was about the social partners, and they have not been answered. You said that the Minister should intervene, and my question is whether I can count on GroenLinks there. If social partners do not deliver on business, does Mr Özdil say that politics must take its own responsibility? He wants that even now in terms of wages, and that is perhaps the subject where, fortunately, the contract freedom of the partners is the greatest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think this is where we hear the difference between D66 and GroenLinks. We have many agreements, but we believe that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment should take responsibility when purchasing power stagnates, as has been the case since 2000. If D66 doesn't think so, that's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Van Weyenberg, briefly finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is about purchasing power. From next year on, you will see that too, but that was not what Mr Özdil said. He said the minister should intervene with social partners. I referred to that, and I note that Mr Özdil has already raised this question twice. One more question. Is that the line of GroenLinks, which if the polder does not deliver, with, for example, wages or something else, the government has to intervene there? Or do I misunderstand Mr Özdil?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	A clear question. Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg completely misunderstood me. I did not say that Minister should intervene with the social partners. I said that the Minister should not wait on the sidelines and let it depend solely on them. That's the responsibility I was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	An interruption by Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Özdil sketches an image and indicates that this is not a law of nature. In addition, it is of course interesting that when you talk about the increase in wages in the Netherlands and see more broadly the discussion about the labour income ratio, Mrs Van Brenk gave that just as she sees that the labour income ratio seems to be getting lower for a number of years. Today, both international and national DNB have recently made a growing link between the decline in the labour income ratio and, for example, the flexibilisation of the labour market. I ask Mr Özdil if he sees this too. If you're asking the Minister to look at something, shouldn't it be in that direction? We have purchasing power discussions here every year. But when you see that the labour income ratio falls every year and renowned institutions indicate that this is related to flexibilisation, isn't there an action perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	The CDA colleague is absolutely right. Of course, job security is one of the key elements: good jobs that offer prospects, which offer purchasing power. That is why we have also submitted an own-initiative paper on flex and firm together with our colleagues from the SP and the PvdA. I hear the CDA's gonna embrace it. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	That is a very special answer to my question. My question was about the labour income ratio. Does Mr Özdil also see the trend outlined, among other things, by Mrs Van Brenk, about which DNB and all kinds of other parties are writing, and should we not discuss this in this debate anymore? I understand that Mr Özdil is going to screen with his own note, and I would like him to do so, but I would nevertheless like an answer to my question: how does GroenLinks see the relationship with that labour income ratio and is that not a focus that we should have in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	If I understand my colleague's question correctly, he is asking whether job security and flexibility is not the only thing we need to talk about today. I don't agree with him. All the factors we're talking about together are important. We have three minutes' speaking time. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, an end to wage moderation, with the responsibility of the cabinet, with real jobs that create real income with perspective, is a good start. That doesn't mean all those other things don't matter. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. Then we go to the next speaker from the Chamber and that is Mr De Jong from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Misdirection, cheating, deliberately fooling hardworking Dutch people; that also seems to be the favourite pursuits of Rutte III. While hundreds of thousands of hard-working Dutch people can hardly make ends meet every month, D66-minister Koolmees makes them tasty with thinning, unrealistic purchasing power expectations that, if they were to come out, would not even suggest a seer. Because what do you have, after years of being squeezed out and when the water is on your lips, to progress by 0.6% for this year, or to that so-called improvement announced with a lot of bombabre in 2019 of 1.6%? This is an outrageously low purchasing power development, which is also dependent on wage increases that this minister is not about at all; that is what employers are about. In other words, if wages do not rise enough, people can simply whistle to the promised purchasing power changes of a few euros. They can write them on their belly. Mr President, taking money for years and then giving it back less than crumbs, while we still have to wait and see if these crumbs really end up in the wallet. This is all happening while the economy is improving and tax revenues are rising. This cabinet should be ashamed of itself. But as you can see from this minister, this cabinet is not ashamed. It doesn't have time for that either. The cabinet will be too busy making it even more difficult for the people in 2019 than they already have. That is why the energy tax goes up, tobacco taxes are increased, VAT goes up on groceries and I can go on for a while. They're busy with it. The cabinet is also busy with further insulting people who are having a hard time. Take our elders, for example. This week came out that this cabinet thinks older people are warm. This is an unprecedented sacrifice for the group of people between 63 and 65 years old. There is no age group that knows as much poverty as this group. And those 55-plussers who have been forced to pay for a large part of the crisis and who have been forced to receive benefits for years are also so warm, I ask the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. People's real disposable income hasn't risen for years. The difference between what people see happening to the economy and what they ultimately feel in their wallets was not that big in 30 years. A lot of Dutch people are hungry for air. The last thing these people are waiting for are fake purchasing power calculations and expectations that exist only in the head of Wouter Koolmees. My appeal to the Minister is therefore to stop fooling the Dutch and come up with real reliefs, with the aim of substantially increasing the real disposable income, i.e. the money in the wallet. I'd like to hear a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. Then we go to Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the development of purchasing power in broad terms today. You can see, of course, that the Netherlands is doing better, that the increase in purchasing power this year is slightly positive and that a significantly higher increase in purchasing power is expected for next year. This is due to the raising of wages, but also to the fact that part of the real burden relief for people who are planning this cabinet is going to translate into the wallet. But I think the Minister rightly indicated in his letter last week that you should not just look at purchasing power figures. We also see that a lot of people find jobs. You don't see that, but that's obviously a huge advance for those people where they really feel the recovery. However, my group also has questions about what we actually see in terms of wage developments and the proportion of working people in the total national cake. Because yes, the wage rate seems to be rising now, from 1.5% this year to almost 3% next year and 4% in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	I will come back to those purchasing power figures that my colleague Van Weyenberg started with. What figures exactly? Can he name them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Özdil made a kind of contradiction between purchasing power figures. They're standing. If nothing changes in your situation, what is the income development of an individual, taking into account taxes, charges, wages, benefits, regardless of whether that individual is a retired person, someone with a benefit or a working person? The Minister also raises the question of nationalism. Then the Minister said: you can look at purchasing power, but you also have to see that we spend more on care. More people find work, which is also money that goes to workers. So I don't think it's a contradiction: it's two figures that both I find interesting and both zoom in on another part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr President, with all due respect, that was not a single answer to the question I asked about what my colleague started his speech. He said the purchasing power figures were positive. What figures exactly? Can he name numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u40	Sure, because I said that the average purchasing power, I mean the median rather than the average, is going up by 0.6%. I told you, that's moderate. Next year, that's 1.6%. I heard a number of colleagues mention that number. That's when about nothing else changes in your life, but it's an important figure. I fully agree with you that it is relatively moderate this year. This is due to the budget of the previous cabinet and to the real backwardness of contract wage development. I'm about to ask questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Özdil, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u42	That was a clear answer, Mr President. Indeed 0.6% and one point so much in 2019: much less than the growth of the economy. Then you can't say as D66 that this is positive or moderate? This is just bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u43	I'm going to ask a number of questions about that as well. For example, I expected wages to rise harder than they do now. I do point out that part of the cookie also goes to people who go from benefit to work, and you don't see that in those static purchasing power figures. These are hundreds of thousands of people. The Minister will show you the following. If you look at the proportion of people in the national cake, it increases more than the total we make in the Netherlands. But I also expected that the difference would be greater, given the fact that we are now in a boom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u45	Indeed, I find it sad that purchasing power figures. Mr. Van Weyenberg had also hoped more and I am glad that we have the same approach. But there is a party that can do something. For example, there are collective bargaining at the Empire and the police, GroenLinks already suggested something about the teachers and so on. So the Empire has influence, with your minister, with your government and with your cabinet. There is a very nice call to reach around 3%, so my question is how D66 sees it. 'Cause there's an influence on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u46	Look, I think Mrs. Van Brenk understands that I'm not going to negotiate on behalf of the cabinet with unions. I don't think that's what she's asking of me either. I also think that we have some reservations about this. But I agree with her that the government also deserves people to earn a serious salary increase. We have only organised it in such a way that the pay area follows what is happening in the market. This is not just the case with this cabinet, which has been going on for decades. I would therefore like to give almost two answers. One. I assume that the cabinet is doing its utmost to make a good collective agreement for all those government officials who absolutely deserve it. Two. I say to the trade unions in the market sector: you actually have a profit doubler, because if you manage to achieve the increase in wages, you will get even more wage space from the government in return, as a result of how we organized it in the Netherlands, and you will get it for free and for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u47	A short supplementary question. The negotiations are ongoing. Following on from this consultation, I would like to make a phone call to one of those social partners sitting at the table. They say nothing is offered at all. It is said that pension contributions have already been paid, so there is nothing else in the cut. What do you mean, purchasing power? I ask D66 whether she would like to push a little towards this cabinet, so that civil servants will also be given purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yeah, but I told you, if there's any pay space. The second question is, of course, what are you doing with that pay space? There are several choices, and in that sense you will make a nice little bridge to what I would like to ask in a moment. Wage space can go into paychecks. You can also choose to do something with a third year of WW; that is not my choice, but you can also choose to do so. You could spend more money on the pension contributions. But it has to come from one big pot in the end. Mrs. Van Brenk agrees with me on that, doesn't she? If Mrs Van Brenk says that she wants to go a little less towards pensions and a little more towards net wages, I think that is an interesting suggestion, but I am not going to go over that and I leave that to the negotiating parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u49	Very briefly, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u50	Very briefly. I'm from the union, so I always want to and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u51	My party sometimes bears responsibility and knows that sometimes you have to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u52	Of course, I have to confirm this. There's no other way. My question concerns the debate between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Özdil on purchasing power cards. There is indeed an average increase of 0.6% for all households. Next year, that's 1.6%. But there is also a difference between low and high incomes and between those on a contract of employment and those on a benefit. Is D66 prepared to look at the low incomes and benefits for the coming years? They stay behind when you look at the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u53	In the coalition agreement, the emphasis was placed on middle income in terms of income trends. That's still the emphasis I'm putting. We make sure that people with lower incomes are also making progress, just like those with high incomes. But the center of gravity lies with the middle incomes. That's a conscious choice. They too must feel the recovery. But, yes, also people with benefits, for example because of the higher general tax discount, are really making a serious contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u54	I really hope that Mr Van Weyenberg will look at people on low incomes or with benefits. These are the people who suffer most from the increase in charges in all kinds of areas. Every Dutchman suffers from that. That requires growth. Especially with a low income, with a small wallet you hope to find a D66 that wants to look at that extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yeah, and that's exactly what we agreed and whatever's gonna happen, I expect. I would like to take away a possible misunderstanding, because all these costs, of course, are included in the calculation of purchasing power, so that there is some net left. They are always averages, as Mr Van Dijk knows. There must also be income growth at the bottom as far as the median is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u56	They are averages, but the difference in those averages is particularly large. The Nibud passed this on when the coalition agreement was presented. A few with two children with an income of €120,000 and the other €70,000, will advance €473 per month per month and a single member of the assistance will advance €21 per month through this government agreement. Doesn't D66 also think that this is wrong and that, especially now that things are improving economically, we need to ensure that people with lower incomes also benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u57	When I look at the percentage progress, I see that there is a great deal of balance in this and that in the passing-through both groups are making about the same progress through the coalition agreement. I do not agree with the line that the Socialist Party often chooses, namely to strengthen the poverty trap and make work pay less. That's not what my party's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u58	Exactly. That is why we want to increase the minimum wage by 10%, in steps, so that this poverty trap no longer takes place. Again, the question. Mr Van Weyenberg says that the difference in percentages is not so great. Well, the difference in percent is: 1.6% progress for a single in welfare and 4.9% for a wealthy couple with two children. Again, in euros: €21 compared to €473. Doesn't D66 think that this has grown completely unevenly and that we need to ensure that people with low incomes are making significant progress in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u59	Let us not forget that there is almost no country in the world where the social minimum is set at such a good level as in the Netherlands. Let me just say this in order to avoid creating an incorrect picture. And yes, we are going for a balanced purchasing power picture. That is what my group is always for. We have supported this in previous Cabinets, and we are committed to it ourselves. The emphasis is on middle incomes. That is a different choice from Mr Van Kent's, I fully admit, but that is a clear line. The point about minimum wage sounds very nice, but my party is not so much about destroying jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u60	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u61	Rounding up. D66 therefore believes that a household with an income of €190,000 per year can improve €473 per month and someone with a welfare allowance but €21. D66 calls this "a balanced purchasing power policy of this cabinet'. In my opinion, D66 needs to take a closer look at the exact balance and wonder whether, given the economic circumstances, it would not be particularly reasonable for people on low incomes to take extra advantage now, because this really does not look like anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u62	Do you know what benefits people most? If they can take that step to work that they can go through this cabinet. Two. Do you know what a measure was that reduced power inequality? That was the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u64	May I finish, Mr. Van Kent? That was the Hills Act, in which we told people with assets that we were doing something about their tax advantage. That's a left-wing measure. And who voted against it? The Socialist Party. That's what I thought was unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, sorry, Mr. Van Kent. We're doing interruptions in two. I've allowed you to do it in threes. That'll do for a while. I'm going to see Mr. De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u67	While we are working on figures, which in itself makes sense in a debate like this, I think it is right to put forward honest figures. We are seeing a so-called 1.6% increase in purchasing power next year. Does D66 agree with me that the 1.6% alone is based on assumptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u68	Each prediction for next year is based on assumptions, on a budget that we have yet to establish, and Mr De Jong is quite right about this and on a contract wage development. What I see now is that I am going to ask the Minister a few more questions in a moment, if I have tried to answer your question. I hope they attract even more, which makes the contract wage increase even better. But Mr De Jong is right that any expectation for next year is based on assumptions and predictions. I think that we are on track in terms of wages so far, but that is one of the questions I would have asked the Minister in a moment. I'll take this opportunity to put it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u69	What is worse about the assumptions that are mentioned is that there is talk of a high rise in wages, an unrealistic rise in wages if you ask the employers themselves. Why? On a tour we hear that there is no time at all to actually achieve the increase in wages as proposed. In other words, if this increase in wages is not going to happen in the near future for next year, there will be nothing left of the 1.6%, which is actually 0.7% when it comes to government policy. So when it comes to the party that D66 put forward in the presentation of the coalition agreement and the run-up to it: shouldn't D66 and the cabinet have been a little more cautious in that festive mood if the purchasing power plates actually turn out to be a wash nose in reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's a lot of questions and, above all, insinuations. Every prediction for the coming years about purchasing power is also in how you think wages are developing. When I see what is happening, I am concerned that you have heard me say many times why wages do not rise harder than that happened. In previous debates, I called on the Minister to address the social partners. One of the questions that I have to ask the Minister is whether we are still on course to realise the purchasing power picture we are assuming in the government agreement. That purchasing power image does not come from me as a D66er, but from the Central Planning Bureau as an independent mathematician. I see, however, that a 4% increase in the wage rate is forecast for next year. Is it guaranteed? No. But that is the assumption that the people who are best able to assess it now have. I hope this happens. Even stronger, I even hope it gets a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u71	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Minister to tell us where this can be done in the near future how this contract wage development translates into new collective agreements. So we can keep a finger on the wrist. What possibilities does he see for that? Mr. Chairman. Many institutions, ladies and gentlemen, have already talked about this. They found that translating the economic recovery into the large part of the work force's cake through contract wages, but also otherwise, is lagging behind what you had previously expected. Even if you look at the labour income ratio, which Mr Heerma has already mentioned, that share seems long-term over the economic wind, so if you look at it a little bit longer you will walk back. That raises a lot of questions. I would ask the Minister to take a very close look at what is going on there, so in addition to the development of purchasing power in the coming months and also, as far as I am concerned, his continued appeal to employers to take a close look at what is happening. Because I want to know more about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u73	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u75	I see there's another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u76	I've got a minute, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u77	Yeah, I know. I would like to give you the opportunity to conclude. Then I'll see if there's any more interruptions. So we'll do it at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u78	Fine, Mr. Chairman. So I am curious about the structural developments that are underneath. We have recently seen an interesting plea for what has been called 'the fair paycheck'. On that you see as working what actually happens to your total wage space, because that goes beyond just what you end up getting in the wallet. That's where contributions for pensions go. Mrs. Van Brenk has already mentioned that. That's where some of the wage costs for your employer go at all. You can see in recent times that rising pension contributions, for example, have a major impact, but I also mention choices made in the collective agreement or social contributions for things that we are very happy with, such as WW or disability insurance. Such a fair paycheck gives people more insight into what's happening. I find that interesting and I would ask the Minister to reflect on how we can give people more insight into what actually happened to their total working conditions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. I see that there is still a brief interruption by Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u80	I have not heard Mr Van Weyenberg say anything about how we are going to improve purchasing power. His comment on the aiq. It was kind of interesting. De Nederlandsche Bank has also said that flexwork leads to lower wages. Does Mr Van Weyenberg believe that it would be ill-advised for the cabinet to opt for further flexibility in the labour market by relaxing the right of dismissal, making people wait a year longer for a fixed contract and extending the probation period to five months?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u81	Two things. Purchasing power is going to happen a lot next year. In this coalition agreement there is a total of a small increase in the burden on companies and a 5 billion reduction in the burden on workers; rather, for people, because they are not just workers. They are also people with benefits and pensioners. I think that's a wise choice. I'll tell you in advance. Mr Van Kent's question on the law on labour market balance. What I really like about this cabinet is that after years of talking in the polder, which came up with nothing during the formation, and a Work and Security Act that unfortunately doesn't get us what we had all hoped for, namely more permanent jobs, does two things at the same time that both are needed for more permanent jobs. We'll handle flex and payroll. There will be a transition fee for temporary work from day one. Those are all things I like very much. At the same time, we are ensuring that SMEs who are keen to employ people can do so again. I think that's a very good balance, because if you do both, you'll make flex really more expensive. That's what we're both for, and you'll also get that steady job. Tackling flex alone without making that fixed job more accessible has unfortunately not worked, as the Work and Security Act also shows. You have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u82	A brief follow-up question from Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u83	When Mr Van Weyenberg talks about making a permanent job more accessible, he means that there will be more insecure flex work and that workers who now have a certain contract will receive an uncertain contract, for example by relaxing the right to lay off. The protection against unfair dismissal is being abolished by this cabinet. Does Mr Van Weyenberg recognise that the measures taken by this cabinet will lead to more flex work and that wages will be put under further pressure? And does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with the SP that we should call on this minister to withdraw that direct attack on workers' rights as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u84	You know what I think of an attack on entrepreneurial rights? That the share of permanent contracts of employees is falling and falling and falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u85	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm about my own answers, Mr. Van Kent. Don't get so excited! You can see that share is falling and falling and falling. In my opinion, Mr Van Kent's solution is to give everyone a permanent job by decree. It doesn't work. That really doesn't work. What we are going to do is to move forward with measures that the previous cabinet has never been able to take. I am proud of that, but we are also going to make sure that this SME person, who really does not get up in the morning with the question of how to bully away his employee, dares to take on permanent employment again by looking at the payment of wages in the event of illness and indeed by looking at things in the right of dismissal that are now leading to that employer, that SME's around the corner, simply doesn't dare to take on permanent employment. So I totally disagree with Mr Van Kent and that does not surprise him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you. I am going to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. I'd still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u89	Sorry, no, I'm going to Mr. Van Dijk's now. Excuse me. You have now interrupted twice on a speaker from D66, once in three and once in two. I think you are asking questions to which you know about the answer, and Mr Van Weyenberg is answering them again, which you can also approximately assess. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u90	I must support Mr Van Kent's argument, because in times of economic growth we are going to increase the uncertainty of workers. But that is what we are going to talk about. Let me be constructive. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned the payroll construction. There is now an initiative from the left-wing parties. That is a better proposal as far as we are concerned. Is D66 prepared to look at alternatives, at improvements, when we are about to debate those labour market plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u91	I'm going to listen to good ideas in every debate. That goes without saying, and I think Mr Van Dijk knows me as well. The Council of State's opinion on its proposal was, let me put it mildly, not only positive. For example, I really do miss the balance sheet in this regard. I disagree with Mr Van Kent and perhaps also with you, because I think you should do both. Of course, I will also look at your proposals, but then I will also see if they are workable, if they are in total balance. I have also made agreements with parties in the coalition agreement; Mr Van Dijk also understands that because he has also tapped out that keg. In every debate I will listen carefully to arguments, including those of Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u92	And we are now engaged in the debate on the broad development of purchasing power. Do you have a brief follow-up question on this, Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr President, if I may, very briefly. Indeed, I have not yet received the flowers of the Council of State; I am still waiting for them. I do expect something from D66, because these parties have also worked together in the previous period. So when we come up with proposals, I hope and expect from this party, but also from the CDA and from the others, that she will really take a serious look at improvement proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u94	I have the same expectation from Mr Van Dijk. I note, and this is not a reproach, that Mr Van Dijk, in the previous cabinet, has to say: his party, because Mr Van Dijk was not in the Chamber at the time, at that time, asked very much for the approach of, for example, the payroll. That cabinet did not succeed and this cabinet is taking real steps here. I think that's pure profit. Then Mr Van Dijk was somewhere else. I am proud that this cabinet is taking a number of measures against flex which were not yet feasible in the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested by Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS at the end of January 2018. She did this in response to the first pay slips of 2018. She also raised the question of why economic growth is not reflected in the pay slips and purchasing power. That was the question she asked and she wanted a letter about it. A letter from the cabinet came about in February. Mrs Van Brenk has followed this up. She said: I do not think the question I raise has been answered properly. At that time, we supported the remark that, if that information is requested, we want it to be received. This led to a letter from the Minister last Friday, which, I think, better addressed the question raised by Mrs Van Brenk when she asked for the debate than in the previous letter. In this letter, the Minister sketches an image that part of economic growth, the fact that things are improving, will translate into reliefs which, however, will only start in 2019 due to the cabinet proposals. But he is also talking about other issues that affect the purchasing power picture and that can make the purchasing power picture different from economic growth, which was the answer to the question. On the one hand, we are talking about something that we all know, namely that if care costs increase more than economic growth, this will have a depressing effect on purchasing power. The second part which the Minister is addressing is actually more interesting, but it also raises more questions. That is the real reward which the Minister is taking up in this letter. He also indicates that part of economic growth translates into employees' wallets in a way that you don't see in purchasing power, namely when you get promotion, when you get contract expansion or when you finally find that job; this certainly applies to older people who didn't have that chance on the labour market in the past. That translates into more money people can spend, but that's not reflected in purchasing power. There's a question for me. You can see that contrast. You can see that part of economic growth goes to a specific group that has opportunities because things are improving economically. But at the same time, there's a warning. That is what I was talking about in an interrupting debate with Mr Özdil. DNB and the IMF are talking about it, the CPB has seen it before and I think trade unions are complaining about it too. They warn: now pay attention, the fluctuating flexibilisation in the polder has a depressing effect on the position in the negotiations on wage increases and the fear that you will get back an enlarged sham construction when you ask for wage increases also has a depressing effect. The aiq. is falling in almost the entire western world, but in the Netherlands this problem would be extra large. In the Netherlands, therefore, the flexible labour market has an extra big impact in addition to internationalisation and technologicalisation, which is discussed everywhere. And that's also reflected in less sharply rising wages if things go well. I would like the Minister to address the issue of DNB, but also the concerns expressed by trade unions. Is the Minister willing to look into this? This is possible also in this debate, which is about purchasing power, an explanation for the discussions we are having on this issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u97	That needs to be looked at carefully. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But should there also be consequences for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u98	I do not want to make it a chicken or egg discussion, because I have been saying for a long time that there is a problem in our labour market with the balance between fixed and flex. In this respect, we have acted in opposition together with the SP, with predecessors of Mr Van Kent. We have already agreed on this in the coalition agreement. I understand that Mr Van Kent is okay with some of these agreements and some of them are not. That something should be done about that labour market: that was my opinion. This translates into the work of the CDA in the past period, but also into what has come back to the coalition agreement. But if research shows that, in addition to internationalisation and technologicalisation, the Netherlands is specifically responsible for the aiq. It may well be even further down than in other countries, which writes DNB in its February report, then it seems to me that it would be helpful to support the fact that you really need to take measures to improve that balance on the labour market. Depending on what comes out of the investigation, it can shed extra light on that discussion for both of us and for all of us. It is difficult to anticipate this now because I do not know the outcome, but I do think it needs to be examined further. In previous discussions, for example, we talked about poverty and debt: why do 50+ people have the greatest chance of long-term poverty? This is because they do not intervene in the labour market. Considering the falling aiq. It could be that the fluctuating flexibility in the Netherlands is an explanatory factor. I want to see those facts. It's at least a confirmation that what we're going to do is necessary. But let's also see what else comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u99	Finalizing, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u100	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I would like to support the appeal to the Minister to investigate this in detail. If it turns out that more action is needed, then I hope that the Minister and the CDA are prepared to deviate from the government agreement and really put an end to the slippery flex contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u101	I very much respect Mr Van Kent's position, but I hope he understands that I have a different appreciation of the agreements in the coalition agreement. In my view, we are actually going to take the step on two sides of this balance to make the fixed contract more attractive again, thus restoring that balance. I understand that the SP has a different opinion on this, but that is the purpose with which we are doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u102	We're looking together, because I too had a lot of questions. What happened to the 3%? We can't feel it in the wallet. Now there's a partial explanation. But what we also see is that employees get an ever smaller part of the cake. 'Cause that's it. You'd think employers would have a bigger piece of it. You can see that they do not invest enough in the form of hiring new staff and the like. This cabinet, too, has given a big gift to the business community. Wouldn't Mr Heerma have expected that there would be more opposite, that more people would be hired, that more permanent contracts would be concluded and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u103	I would like to separate the two parts of Mrs Van Brenn's question. Her demand for information was really about 3% economic growth and purchasing power. She was entitled to a good answer to that. We supported her in this; the first was not enough. Last Friday, the Minister presented better explanations for what it is about: the rising costs of care, which increase more than economic growth. But real income and employers do offer an interesting approach to Mrs Van Brenk's question. There is also the discussion on the aiq. I heard her very clearly about that in the first term. That includes my question. My question at the moment is: I want to know the facts. With all due respect to Mrs Van Brenn and for what she already says the conclusion is, but it seems to be that aiq. in the Netherlands is falling more strongly than in other countries in the West, while we do see her falling across the board. This has to do with internationalisation, globalisation and technologicalisation; there is a lot of international discussion and research on this. But that piece, the fact that it might fall faster in the Netherlands, is closely linked by trade unions, as Mrs Van Brenk knows, and even by DNB, the CPB and the IMF, to the balance of our labour market. I'd like to have that checked out. If you're asking why, I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Wiersma of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr President, thank you. The economy is on steam, according to the CPB's estimate at the beginning of March. In the labour market, demand for staff is increasing. There has recently been a so-called tense labour market: everyone is needed. Let us realize how many opportunities this offers. It is a good thing that the cabinet is working on this in various ways, including the 5 billion in reliefs already mentioned. Today, rightly, we are talking about the transfer of policies and measures to purchasing power. The purchasing power plates are now a well-known, but also notorious phenomenon. The CPB recently stated that static purchasing power cards give insight into policy and economy, but that they are less suitable for a transfer to the private wallet. Mrs. van Brenk just said it right: I'm looking. That goes for me, too. And also for the CPB, which says: what do you buy for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. Yes, but when the new cabinet arrived, the VVD reached the front page of De Telegraaf and almost all newspapers with just fantastic stories of "everyone is getting better, what a great news about purchasing power." That's when this wasn't mentioned. All those people who sat at home, who had the water up to their lips and had the end of the month hard to tie up, then thought: well, maybe finally, after all these years, a little air. Now, a few months later, we are told that we should not take these purchasing power cards so seriously. How can it be that every time they present the measures, the VVD and its friends in the cabinet are celebrating a party, and then in debates that you hope some people will look at eventually admit that it was nothing, and then just cheat people again during campaign periods? Can the VVD explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't even on a quarter of the story I wanted to tell here. It is precisely here that we are talking about the whole story, about the whole balance of the labour market, about the whole story of all the measures taken by the cabinet. I'm going to give you a nice overview of that in a moment. In other words, household average purchasing power will improve by 1.1% in the coming years. But that wasn't the point I wanted to make. I would therefore like to continue my speech in order to tell you what I mean by that private wallet and its translation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u108	Nevertheless, I give Mr De Jong the opportunity to put a brief, concise question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u109	I just asked a question. This is about the way in which the VVD behaves during campaigns or when a government agreement is presented, and then to withdraw it and say: we do not have to take the purchasing power plates very seriously, because they depend on a lot of factors and ultimately you do not notice anything about it in your wallet. But my problem is that people have been squeezed for years. They were allowed to pay for the crisis. The middle class is incredibly difficult. The elderly too are having a very difficult time. And every time they're fooled. So my question to the VVD is when she will finally stop doing that and when she will ensure that these people see a real purchasing power advance in their wallet, for example by reversing the increases in VAT on groceries, excise duties, rents. When will the VVD finally stop doing this, so people will notice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u110	I indicated at the beginning of my speech that this cabinet is also taking a great deal of action. One part of this is the relief of charges. They will rise to 5 billion in the coming years. I have also indicated that purchasing power is increasing on average, but I also point out that the CPB is right to comment on this. Because, yes, the CPB, also in the report recently, in March, gives nice expectations and the Cabinet takes many measures to ensure that as many people as possible benefit from economic growth. But no, you won't find a job with purchasing power cards. It doesn't promote you, it doesn't give you children, and it doesn't add up to anything, of course, to a justified nuance. But that sometimes makes it elusive. I acknowledge that, and it would be good if we clarified that. The Minister has tried to do so, and I am going to ask a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u111	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u112	I find it interesting that the Minister has made an attempt to look at that transfer of policy to wallet. In his letter last Friday, in response to the questions of 50PLUS, the Minister points out that because of this static purchasing power, so in a broad sense, we see an average increase of 0.6 in 2018 and 1.6 in 2019, contrasting with the higher economic growth in both years, the picture may arise that this growth does not reach households. But he also indicates that this is distorting. I would like to ask the Minister to explain this again, because that is also a mix-up in this debate. Can he explain that again and show us how we can better deal with this distortion in the future? Then we can get the legitimate question that comes from different parties, namely how this now translates into the private wallet, more clearly, rather than always having those figures discussions that people think of at home: that doesn't give me any additional purchasing power anyway. Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions about that. Can the Minister also explain the great difference between that purchasing power and the real remuneration he mentions in his document? The latter will increase by 3.5% in 2018. But can this also be broken down by sectors, for example? Could we go a little deeper? Could we also look at different groups of workers, as the CPB does? And what would the image be? I wonder if the Minister can say anything about that. In his letter, for 2019, a minus of 1,2 is added to the effect of taxes, premiums and surcharges. Can the Minister explain that? That has a depressing effect on employees' remuneration. I can't wait to see what's under there. Can the Minister explain that? This does not, in any case, create the clarity we are looking for. In addition, the Minister talks about the distribution of the national cake. The vast majority of the increase goes to households. Of course, that's good news. But can the Minister also explain where this falls down mainly in those households? Can we go a little deeper there, too? The Minister also states that companies are lagging behind. I'm still looking forward to an explanation for this. Mr. Chairman. Grosso modo is good for the Netherlands. More and more people are finding work. Confidence in the economy also grows daily. Fortunately, we also see wages rising. But in particular, as far as the latter is concerned, we have already mentioned it here, and it is, of course, also important, where possible, that we allow as many people as possible to experience that wages are rising. There's a little bit of a tooth for that. On the one hand, the cabinet comes up with all kinds of measures to reduce the burden on labour, but on the other hand, it is also up to employers and employees to have that discussion at the collective bargaining table. We will see to it that this happens properly. Finally, I would like to see the Minister's view of this. How's it going? How do we keep the finger on the wrist? What is the movement if we look further into the year after the next few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u113	There is an interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u114	In Mr Wiersma's speech of the VVD, the so-called 'charge relief' came along. But let it be the case that the reduction was promised, namely in 2016, and that it was brought forward. Then you can say that this is very nice, but if you look at what happens in 2019, in which the charges go up for almost the same amount, you have almost nothing left. So I have another question. The moment the VVD keeps its propaganda talk that it all gets better for the people, that wages rise and so on and the employers say that we all have to look at that, my question is what the VVD is really going to do to make sure that people's real income, so what they feel in their wallets at the end of the month, is substantially increasing, so they're actually going to notice that that economy is attracting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u115	I understand that Mr De Jong of the PVV is, of course, also looking with some jealousy at all the fine measures we are taking to ensure that, as the economy draws on, people are going to be left with more in their pockets. I also understand that this sometimes raises the question of how these measures are going to work, but the core thing is that we in the labour market are making work pay. That's what we're gonna do with the five billion. We do this, for example, by introducing the two-disk system. We are taking measures with regard to the childcare allowance and the employment discount. We're taking a whole series of measures because there's not one button that can make everything work all of a sudden. The PVV would like to see one button, me too, but if there isn't, you need to take a package of measures. That's what this cabinet does, and I'm glad. You may regret that you are not in it and that those measures were not on your A4's, but you can also embrace it and say: I am glad that something is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u116	I give the floor to Mr De Jong for a final, brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u117	You know what makes people so tired? That is that it is said in 2015 that the burden is going down and that a new cabinet is going up, which says it is going to do it sooner and then increase the burden. That measure of those two discs, which Mr Wiersma referred to, is, to a very large extent, nullified by the measures introduced in 2019. I refer to a VAT rate that is going up, the energy tax that is going up and the tobacco tax that is going up. When it comes to all those measures that are being taken in 2019, the so-called reduction of charges is gone. Why doesn't the VVD meet that hardworking Dutchman she once had a high priority, instead of promoting measures, such as the VAT increase, as if it's nice for people when they've been taken hard and hard in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u118	The image that I think is getting tired of is the image of parties standing on the sidelines and just shouting that it is bad, but that when they get the chance to do something about it, they are not present. With just shouting that everything is bad, people don't have an extra euro left in their wallet. And that's what we're going for, and that's what this cabinet is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr. Wiersma made a whole speech in which he indicated that he wanted a breakdown, an extra tooth for different sectors. He also said just now that working should pay off. But if you've worked your whole life, can it pay again? And what about those people who are going to have to work with pay dispensation, who have gone backwards, and what for the young, the Wajangers? Mr. Wiersma of the VVD will let me know how he looks at that? Can they also enjoy purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u120	I've already said a number of things about it. The past few years have been quite difficult. Many people have been affected by this and some still do, such as older people who are still difficult to get to work. I think it is important that we do everything in our power to include those who can still participate in the labour market. This is certainly true of the elderly and, fortunately, we have also taken a number of measures. Together with 50PLUS I have recently made proposals to do this better. The overall picture, including that of the cabinet, is that because the economy is growing, you also want as many people as possible to take advantage of it. The picture of the purchasing power figures that we are discussing here today shows that in 2019, and by the way, most of them in 2018, all the groups that are in it are going to notice that the economy is really getting better. Your question is, is that enough? I get that. That is, of course, also a political consideration. An important element in this is, of course, the pension system for the elderly. That's what this cabinet's gonna do. It would also help if you sent a further encouragement to the club where you were previously, the FNV, I will also do so in order to achieve something quickly, because the longer that takes, the less good the prospect of older people is for their retirement. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mrs. Van Brenk, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u122	The VVD just said: we consciously choose the middle incomes. But we see that the elderly are improving 0.6%, compared to 1.2% or 1.4% for the workers. That is not very nice to say, especially if you know that the elderly have not had an increase for ten years, from 2000 to 2015. In 2015, they were at the 2000 level. Can't the VVD say: yes, that group really has to tell us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u123	The cabinet has shown in all the calculations made over the past few months that the group you mention will, on average, improve by 0.7% over the next few years. But I would like to put a complete picture against that. The CBS has helped us do that. Especially in the period 2001-2010, older people have seen their average income increase more, by 10% than, for example, young households, by 2%. Also in the period thereafter, 2011-2016, the income trends of older people are similar to those of other households. So the image that we're dwindling with older people is wrong. In fact, the opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u125	The next item is the continuation of the 30-member debate on broad purchasing power development in 2018. We are moving on to the first term of office. Among us is the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Welcome. I'd be happy to give you the floor, Your Excellency, for your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for your questions. I try to walk through this block by block, with a general introduction, a block of labour income and wage growth and then trivia, other questions that have been asked. I'd like to start with a general introduction. Last month we received positive news from the Central Planning Office. The Dutch economy is on steam and is also growing faster than in other countries in Europe. At the same time, the estimates, including those of the Central Planning Bureau, show that purchasing power development in 2018 is lagging behind that economic growth, as in 2017. I understand that this raises questions. Mr Heerma had the same suggestion, like Mrs Van Brenk, after the previous letter of January: make a breakdown to real growth. Then we are indeed talking about the broad purchasing power. That is really different from the static purchasing power or the purchasing power plates that we often talk about in this house. In the letter I sent to you last week, I tried to paint a broader picture than just the purchasing power figures, also following or in addition to the analysis of the Central Planning Bureau in the Central Economic Plan, which has made a reflection of the value of such a static purchasing power picture rather than a dynamic purchasing power picture. Statically, of course, only assumes that the situation remains the same and does not take account, for example, of getting a new job, getting an additional wage increase, divorce or the loss of a job or the death of a partner. None of that is in the static purchasing power picture. But it's not, to make things complicated, in a dynamic purchasing power picture. In the letter, I am also trying to make a nuance in the debate by describing this picture of where economic growth is going. If you look at that letter, the real wage of employees will increase by more than 3% in 2018 and 2019 as a result of employment growth in particular. This is not easy to translate to individuals, because it is the individuals who were first in benefit and are now getting work that are, of course, getting a lot better in income. For the total population of workers, this obviously means that a larger proportion of the cake goes to the workers. That comes back to this figure. That does not mean that if all individuals are in danger of misunderstanding, I would also like to remove it from the agenda, which is going to improve 3%. Of course not, because this is simply the distribution of economic growth between employees, companies and the government. And the question about the illusionist in the newspaper this morning, this is another presentation of where the cake is going. Especially recently, unemployment has been falling very rapidly, fortunately but, and these people are, of course, making a very large income leap from a benefit to a job. That's all good news. That doesn't mean that everyone is suddenly making a lot of progress. So I want to put that nuance right in. Mr Özdil has asked me here whether that is the figures of the illusionist Koolmees, or the figures of the CPB. And if it's another definition, what's the difference? Fortunately, they're both CPB numbers. It's also in the letter I sent you. The source is the Central Economic Plan, in which these figures have been deepened. So they're both CPB numbers. I also find it rather offensive, I say with a friendly smile to Mr Özdil, who suggests something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u127	I am going to agree with colleagues that we may have two short interruptions, up to two. And an interruption is a short question. Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u128	If I may have suggested that the Minister made up figures, that was not my intention. My question was mainly about the comment in the article in Het Financieele Dagblad, in which it is said that by taking care expenditure into account, in its broad purchasing power picture, the Minister is achieving a much higher purchasing power growth than the strict CPB purchasing power figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u129	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u130	So my question is again what I also said in my speech. The Financieele Dagblad says that the Minister's definition creates a wasted purchasing power growth, which is not marked by the hardworking Dutchman. What's his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u131	I just tried to answer that question in my introduction. The static purchasing power picture, which we normally talk about here and which we also talked about in the budget, is based on the individual whose situation does not change. The dynamic purchasing power picture is based on people who find a job and who therefore improve their income or those who lose their jobs, which lowers their income. That is already much harder to model and present. This is actually another presentation, which deals with the question of where economic growth ends up. Then you can see that a large part of economic growth does indeed reach the workers, sometimes in the form of wages, sometimes in the form of jobs and therefore income, but sometimes also in the form of healthcare consumption. We all pay care consumption through taxes and premiums, but that is of course attributable to people, because people benefit from health care. Let us assume that in the definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think that's where the pain is. It has also been outlined by Het Financieele Dagblad and GroenLinks agrees: in this way you create a purchasing power picture that is not directly felt by most people. In any case, is the Minister prepared to include the exact CPB figures in his further communication on purchasing power cards, so that people can get that and not get a distorted picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u133	My experience with this kind of numbers is that you can make a lot of layouts and divisions. Let's zoom in on the health care. Fortunately, a lot of people do not use health care because they are not sick, but they do pay taxes and contributions for our collective health care. Should you then make a division between people who do or do not go to the GP? It can't be. That would also be some kind of fake security that you shouldn't wake up. Of course, we don't pay taxes and contributions to health care for nothing. We pay them because we want to benefit from the quality health care in the Netherlands. What I've been trying to point out is that there are all kinds of different definitions of how you look at reality. That's always complicated in this discussion. The static purchasing power picture we are always talking about here shows, quite frankly, a very limited picture of reality. That's what the Central Planning Bureau says in the Central Economic Plan. The static purchasing power picture does not take into account individual circumstances, such as finding a job, a divorce, the loss of a partner. All that stuff isn't in there. Also getting a reward or getting an extra periodically in the salary scales is not included. So the static purchasing power picture is just a picture of reality. It is very good to oppose other realities. That's what I tried with last week's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u134	I would at least like to thank the Minister for the answer to my question. I did want to know where that 3% is, because I didn't have the idea that people would find it in their wallet. The minister says that it comes to families, that the government takes a little, but that companies are lagging behind, yet we see that the profits of companies are going very well. I can't put that in a good place. I would like to see that clarified. I would also like to have a response from the Minister, who does not need to get off the loose wrist on the ESB message of 8 February. It already indicates that the Netherlands is lagging behind because there is a strong decline in aiq. and a sharp increase in the burden. We also see what the Minister has shown us. Figure 3 shows the volume of consumption. This includes care and education. It is a beautiful state with all kinds of colors. But in that we see the Netherlands at the bottom compared to Canada, Germany, Denmark, France and so on. Would the Minister care to go into that one more time? So we're talking about page 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u135	Do you mean page 3 of the letter I sent to the Chamber last week or page 3 of the February letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, this is from the ESB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u137	So it's from the ESB. I don't have that ready here. But perhaps it can be written or we can take a look at it in the second period. Mrs. Van Brenk said so. I don't have it ready here. So I'll come back to that in the second term, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u138	Can you also say something about those companies, which you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u139	Yeah, I just wanted to say a few words about that. That is also in my own text. On page 34 of the CEP, the Central Planning Bureau has made such an overview of several years, 2008, 2009, I'll say the start of the financial and economic crisis, 2010 to 2014, I'll say the low point of the crisis and the years after that, the slow recovery. And then you actually see that in the early years, the government and the companies, in particular, have taken the hit, the companies because of declining profitability and the government through a deficit in public finances. Then you see recovery, first from companies, and by all kinds of measures also from the government. Slowly you can see that workers will also benefit more, partly because of the attracting labour market and higher wages. In 2018 and 2019, figure 1 on page 3 of the letter I sent to Mrs Van Brenk last week shows you that the picture is really tilting. Two-thirds of the increase in national cookies goes to households, if you take the overall broader picture, if you take care consumption into account. Companies and government are lagging behind in this respect. I have thus identified the broader purchasing power development, also with regard to the purpose of last week's letter. Now specifically about purchasing power development in 2018. We have also discussed this in detail in the debate on the budget. 2018 is a moderate year when it comes to static purchasing power development, also compared to the good prospects for the coming years, but that also has to do with the long formation and the fact that the budget for this year has actually been made by the previous cabinet. At Prinsjesdag there was no new cabinet yet, so the budget was also presented by my predecessor. 2018 is actually a kind of intermediate year. The previous cabinet has taken a few measures to support the purchasing power of, in particular, the underside, beneficiaries, but also pensioners. For pensioners specifically, this concerns the €65 increase in the care allowance and the €115 reduction for the elderly. The increase in purchasing power in the elderly is 0.4 median, not for all individuals, but median. This is limited, but it is not very out of line with that of other groups, namely 0.6 medians, especially after the repair by the previous cabinet of the care allowance and the elderly discount, but certainly also when you consider that the non-indexation of pensions is visible to pensioners, but not to workers. Both groups are affected by the non-indexation of part of pensions, only in the case of pensioners this is directly visible in the purchasing power picture, while in the case of workers it becomes apparent only later, namely when people are retired. About 2018 we discussed it extensively in the budget debate. There are no further possibilities to adjust. At Prinsjesdag of course we do have a new budget for 2019. In a number of letters we have recently given the first was my very first letter as Minister to this Chamber. Then you can see that the purchasing power picture for the coming years is a lot brighter. Again, I'm talking about the static purchasing power picture. The CPB estimates the average increase in purchasing power next year at an average of 1.6 medians for all households, but there are, of course, differences between workers, benefit recipients and pensioners. It's all very neatly broken down in my letter. I'm taking some measures when it comes to pensioners. Of course, they also benefit from the introduction of the dual-disk system. We intend to introduce that. They also benefit from the increase in the general tax rebate. Mr Wiersma has just mentioned this in his speech. We also intend to increase the elderly discount and the hard phasing-out limit of the rent payment will be gradually reduced. That also has a moderating effect. In addition, there is always some misunderstanding about this, and I would like to correct this for the third time. I would like to draw attention to the large package of relief for people, workers, citizens, which is included in the coalition agreement, rising to 5.2 billion in 2021. In addition to my previous reply to Mrs Van Brenk, there is a small increase in the burden on business. This has also become clear in the passing on of the coalition agreement. On balance, therefore, we have relief for people and a small increase for companies in 2021. That's 100 million, I say out of my head. So that's what you see in those purchasing power cards. For example, the reduction in working hours is being increased and targeted measures are being taken to reduce marginal pressure. And there are also the intensification of measures such as the child-related budget, child benefit and childcare allowance. That is, I shall say, the broader picture for the coming years that I have given your Chamber a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u140	This leads to Mrs Van Brenn's second and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr President, I notice that you are becoming very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u143	The minister says we're gonna do a lot of beautiful things, we're gonna make it better for people and we're gonna hand out over 5 billion. But he forgets that there are 4 billion in burdens on this. I mention VAT and, well, the PVV has just mentioned it all. The Minister said that the costs of the crisis of recent years have been taken by the government and the companies. Why? The citizens have had to pay for all this, haven't they? I don't get it. There has been a zero line, there have been discounts and taxes have been raised. I do not understand why the Minister can say: the government and the companies have taken the costs. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mrs. Van Brenn is absolutely right. She's right; I was a little careless in my response. Figures for 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 show that the first blow of the crisis has been met by government and industry. In fact, at that time, I know very well that collective agreements continued to run longer, including, for example, collective agreements for employees in the government and the state cao. As a result, in the years 2008, 2009 and 2010, the purchasing power development of the workers was very positive, while at the same time companies lost a lot of money, went bankrupt or gradually started firing people, and the government had a huge deficit. This picture has indeed been tilted in the years after that, because the public authorities had to put their house in order in public finances and have therefore also cut back and increased the burden. This had a negative impact on purchasing power for workers. This indeed plays broadly in the years 2012 to 2015. Since 2015, you can see that the picture is tilting again and that the labour market is attracting again, people are finding a job again and with that the wages are going up a bit. As a result, there is also room in the government for relief. So that's what you see in the coalition agreement. That is the total answer to Mrs Van Brenn's justified question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u146	Yeah, in conclusion, I'm gonna ask you one more question. The Minister zooms in on the purchasing power of pensioners, for which I would like to thank him. I would therefore like to know what he thinks of the fact that in 2016 the CBS really said that the purchasing power of pensioners was at the level of the year 2000. So that's 15 years of back stove. I'd like an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u147	This is dangerous because, of course, we are dealing with an enormous number of averages and individual exceptions. Some people have a small supplementary pension and others have a large supplementary pension. I really have to abstract; I hope Mrs Van Brenn understands that. However, you can see, of course, that there has been a failure to index the second pillar pensions since 2009. We also had the debate on this with Mr Van Rooijen two weeks ago. This non-indexation affects pensioners directly because it is visible in purchasing power, and it affects the workers, but then invisible, because it leads to less retirement for them for the future. At the same time, there was, of course, inflation, albeit low. This indeed leads to an erosion of purchasing power. However, the consequences are different. People who have a small supplementary second pillar pension have benefited from the measure on the elderly discount, or from the AOW, which has been linked to the rise in prosperity. People with a very large supplementary pension have suffered more because they have a larger share of their income from a second pillar pension, a supplementary pension, which is therefore not indexed. So, in general, I recognize the picture and is also in line with what I said earlier about purchasing power in the debate on the budget. But the individual differences are very large. You have seen in recent years that on the other hand, at the AOW or the old-age discounts, there has been considerable compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u148	When last October the new cabinet took office, in which Wouter Koolmees was also present, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u149	Yes, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u150	Sure. ... were the heads and presentations of the cabinet: everyone is getting better, purchasing power great, totally great and everyone is going to feel it. And now the minister comes with all the disclaimers: it's a median, it's averages, it's not for everyone, it's going to be difficult, of course I can't zoom in on personal situations and it's actually not as beautiful as what I told the Dutch people last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u151	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u152	What is the Minister's view of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u153	I know very well what I said. I said that all the groups in the Netherlands are improving in the coming years. I have just said that one of my very first letters to the Chamber as Minister for Social Affairs, namely that of the first day of my installation, was about the purchasing power picture. There are all these disclaimers and all these references to the static and dynamic purchasing power image. That's the letter of October 27, 2017, I think. That was right to give an overall picture of all the assumptions, assumptions and vulnerabilities that are in that picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u154	It turns out again that the image the minister has and the image that Dutch society has lies miles apart. But then my next question. This minister is talking about reducing the burden. Does the Minister agree with the PVV that it is to a large extent a cigar from its own box? And why? Because it had already been promised to the Dutch people, because of the austerity of the mortgage interest deduction. If you then know that we have been pleased with this before and then look at what happens in 2019, namely that almost the same amount of burdens will be increased, then how can this minister use the so-called burden relief in his propaganda that ultimately it will all get better for the people at the bottom of the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u155	A few factual remarks. If you take all the measures with you, we'll have cost reliefs on balance. There are indeed a number of burdens, for example on energy taxes and VAT, but on balance in 2019 there will be a reduction of more than 2 billion for workers. "On balance," so if you take all the measures together. I understand that Mr De Jong is taking a few measures and putting them in the window, but he forgets to tell the whole story. On balance, in 2021 there will be a €5.2 billion reduction for people. It would be a pleasure for Mr De Jong to share that information fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. De Jong, you may begin your second and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u157	Yes, Mr President, and I shall be delighted to use it, because it is also necessary. This minister forgets as a true illusionist, as Het Financieele Dagblad pointed out, as a kind of bad Hans Kazan.. because at the end of the ride people just have a bad feeling about his magic tricks.. one crucial thing to tell: in 2015 the so-called load relief had been promised long and wide. They will then pay for these reliefs themselves. It's a cigar from its own box. What happens next year? The charges will be increased. Then you can say: a little raised. But these costs will be increased by almost EUR 5 billion. That's a fact. If we look at what that ultimately does to the people's wallet... That is what this debate is about, and I still do not hear a good answer from the Minister. What is this minister going to do when it comes to real disposable income, so the amount people have to spend at the end of the month in pure euros, for all those people who have been so hard hit in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u158	In my reply and in my letter, I referred to CPB calculations. When it comes to the overall picture of burdens and reliefs in this cabinet period, I also refer to a passing on of the government agreement by the Central Planning Bureau. In doing so, I base myself on the facts. These are insightful to you, who have been sent to the Chamber, and we have discussed them extensively in the debate on the declaration of government. Those are not my figures and not the figures of the department, but those are the figures of the independent calculator, the Central Planning Office. That's one. Two. What Mr De Jong is right about, and that makes this debate so incredibly complicated, is that you always push a coalition agreement against the basic path: what is happening underneath? Underlying, of course, there are a lot of things happening, for example the healthcare expenditures that increase every year. In fact, they are rising, I say, out of my mind, at three or four percentage points a year, because we are using more care consumption. There are more elderly people, but we also use better technologies. That's in the contributions that workers pay, that's right. These premiums are also in the purchasing power picture, including the static one used to pass on the government agreement. This is all in the picture we presented in my very first letter of 27 October to Parliament on static purchasing power. Then you see that all groups in Dutch society have a positive purchasing power picture in the coming years. There are differences, however: between beneficiaries, pensioners and workers. Mr Van Weyenberg has just said that a political choice has also been made to focus the burden relief mainly on workers, because work has to pay. But the image is in its entirety. I would like to make one additional point. Mr De Jong just said in his first term: they are all assumptions. Indeed, as Mr Van Weyenberg said, a prediction for the future is based on assumptions regarding economic growth and labour market development. They are all contained in these figures. They can change, too. The care premium estimate can also change. In fact, the estimate has changed, and that is also an answer to the question that has been explicitly asked. The contract wage development for 2019 is lower than previously estimated. That's one part of the story. The other part of the story is that the estimated inflation rate is also lower than previously estimated, leaving on balance the real purchasing power trend, namely the difference between the increase and inflation, so what you can buy for it, is broadly the same. Grosso mode remains the image that we presented to the coalition agreement in the last estimate of the Central Planning Bureau in the CEP. There are, of course, changes that are always caused by other economic developments, but the overall picture is always presented. Mr. Chairman. I come to a very interesting subject on which Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma have asked questions, namely the development of contract wages and the labour income ratio. Looking back at wage developments in recent business cycles, it is almost always the case that, in bad times, wages first increase as the economy shrinks. Of course, this has to do with some kind of adaptation to the circumstances. Cao's agreed earlier and wages go on for longer. The economy is therefore shrinking, but contract wages remain unchanged. As soon as the economy recovers, wages slow down. First, people go from a benefit to work and unemployment falls. Then you can see that a lot of workers are getting higher occasional wage developments or are getting a periodic one. Afterwards, this only translates into a higher contract wage increase at the collective agreement table. You always see a kind of delay here: the labour market reacts with delay to economic recovery. Is there something crazy going on, because recovery takes a long time, as has been asked. The Central Planning Bureau has made an analysis in the CEP. This is the comparison with previous business cycles. I don't have it right here, but you can see a comparison with other years: 1994-2001, 2014-2019 and 2005-2008. Then you can see that the development is similar. In other words, the Central Planning Office expects that in the coming years the collective wage increase will increase. That's still in their estimate. That's the first thing. So you can also see that next year's contract wage development has been estimated to be higher. In particular, I have been asked to monitor the collective wage development. Yeah, we got those windows. Every three months, a progress report will be available on the website of cola.minszw.nl, also for your Chamber. Each month we see what happens to contract wage developments. In the last month we have seen an increasing increase in collective bargaining wages in the month of February. The AWVN, the association of employers, has also reported this. Once again, the Central Planning Office expects it to move forward in the coming months towards, I say, the 3.2%. I do that out of my head; that's always dangerous. Wage developments are in line with the previous recovery in the labour market. You see a turning point when unemployment falls below a certain level. If unemployment falls below the level of 4 percentage points, then you also see the attracting effects of contract wage increases. The other question that is asked is about the decline in the aq., the labour income ratio. That is indeed a very interesting development that you see not only in the Netherlands, but in almost all Western economies. The past few years have been the aiq. decreased. Internationally, however, the decline in the Netherlands is not that bad. There are, of course, differences between countries, but in the United Kingdom and the United States, for example, there is a greater decline in aiq. than in the Netherlands. On the other hand, I agree with Mr Heerma: the analysis of De Nederlandsche Bank is now that flexibility in the Dutch labour market could also be an explanation of the decline in the labour income ratio in the Netherlands. It is important to note that De Nederlandsche Bank recently found that there is a correlation between the decline in aiq. and the increase in the number of flexible contracts, but DNB has not yet been able to demonstrate a causal link. At the same time, I also feel that it is the combination of factors: technological development, globalisation and flexibility of the labour market. Indeed, these lead to less bargaining power of trade unions and thus to the labour income ratio. The CPB, like De Nederlandsche Bank, has investigated this. In fact, in the coalition agreement, we made agreements to meet some of them. Last week I offered the bill WAB for internet consultation so that people can respond. There are indeed a number of measures which are intended precisely to reduce the flexibilisation that has gone through. Think of the premium differentiation in the WW. With Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Dijk, we have recently had the debate on their own initiative paper. There's a payroll in that law, too. Indeed, this includes the transition fee from day one. We have therefore introduced a number of measures which must be countered by flexibility. We also do this from this thought and from the thought that the difference between fixed and flex in the Netherlands has gone crazy. By the way, the bill has now been offered for consultation. I'm very curious about all the reactions. It's open for consultation for four weeks. Then I'm gonna collect the commentary. I hope, as I said to the Chamber earlier, that I will be able to go to the Council of State before the summer so that in the third quarter I can deal with the law with your Chamber and discuss its content. In the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma I note that we do indeed have a limited decrease in the aiq. See. International research identifies structural causes, such as globalisation and technological development. For the Netherlands, flexibility is mentioned as a possible third cause. I do agree with you that it is necessary to develop wage increases and aiq. to understand better. There is still too much uncertainty about how the system works exactly. We need to take the role of flexible work into account in getting a better sense of its size. This year the Centraal Planbureau conducts research into wage developments in the Netherlands and also pays attention to the influence of flexibilisation. I follow the results closely. Again, I am not waiting for that, because part of the WAB bill already addresses this issue. A few specific questions have been asked. I just need to get my answers straight. I hope with this I will ask the questions about the aiq. have replied sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u159	Then you go to your last block, varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yes. Well, actually, the first question is still part of the previous block: is the Minister prepared to take measures to enforce higher wage increases? Mr Van Kent was the most vocal about this; he was talking about a wage measure. Mr Özdil and Mr Van Dijk hinted a bit. I found that striking for someone who used to work in the trade union, because this is, of course, a freedom of contract for employers and employees. Mrs Van Brenk, who also worked in the trade union movement, had a very clear view of this: this is the responsibility of employers and employees. Again, I see an upward trend in wage increases. According to the latest figures on collective agreements concluded in 2018, wage increases have now risen to 2 percentage points. Of course, that's just good news, but that's not the wage rise we're all hoping for. I have also said that wages are always slowing down in response to the economy. The Central Planning Bureau states that this is now about the same as the normal cycle compared to other years. What is striking, though, is that, as I said earlier in the debate with your Chamber, there may be differences between sectors. In some sectors there is more room for wage increases than in others. DNB, De Nederlandsche Bank, wrote on the basis of figures up to 2015 that there was in particular wage room in the inland sectors. The aiq. was still here below the long-term average of that sector. This concerns, for example, the catering industry and the construction sector, where De Nederlandsche Bank also focuses specific attention. Therefore, on the basis of DNB's figures, there certainly seems to be more room for wage increases. The specific question was whether I am prepared to take action. Wage policy is really up to the decentralised collective bargaining partners. I really think that this is the responsibility of employers and employees at the collective bargaining table. Those are negotiations that we are not easy to intervene in. They can also make the best assessment of what is possible in the sector or business. As Minister of Social Affairs, I do not wish to intervene in that regard. So I say to Mr Van Kent: no, I do not intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u161	I have every confidence in social partners in the sectors, but my question focused specifically on the role of the government as an employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u162	That's a fair point. Mr Gijs van Dijk rightly nuances my somewhat teasing reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u163	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u164	That's right, but I do have the same answer. We are now in negotiations between the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for the government's collective agreement, and the trade unions. Those negotiations are currently under way. You can understand that I'm not going to negotiate that collective agreement with you from this place. That really is the responsibility of the decentralised parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u165	Of course, I do not want to assume that responsibility. We should not do that in this place either, but it is of course important for the coming years that the government should also monitor contract wage development in the market. Then there must be a sufficient budget available, which must then be renegotiated by decentralised parties. My question was whether the Minister is prepared to take care of this, even if there is not enough in the budget for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u166	I think Mr Van Weyenberg has explained very well what the system of government officials is like. It's called "the reference system of government officials." They monitor developments in the market sector. If wage increases in the market sector attract, there is therefore more room for negotiation of collective agreements with the government but also with the municipalities and the provinces. We have also included in the government agreement that, for technical reasons, nominal development has been excluded from the expenditure framework. In other words, there is scope to monitor these developments in the market sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u167	Friend and enemy agree that wages should rise much faster. Does the Minister not see any responsibility on the part of the government to call on employers and employees or to force them to do so? Does the Minister see opportunities there? A wage measure is, of course, a very heavy instrument, which can also be used as a stick behind the door. That does not necessarily have to be applied. Does the Minister see opportunities to persuade employers and employees from the government to make that wage increase, which we all want, a reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u168	I myself, but also the Prime Minister and Klaas Knot, the President of the Netherlands Bank, have indeed already made statements towards the Chamber about the importance of additional wage increases where possible. Once again, I really want to stress that this is not obvious in all sectors. We have also included this in the coalition agreement, which we have also radiated towards the social partners. Another extreme is a wage measure. Of course, with the government agreement, we are trying to support the development of purchasing power through, for example, reducing the burden on workers and thereby also encouraging the consumption and income of people. But Mr Van Kent is really going the other way. He advocated a wage measure and intervention in the negotiating area of the social partners. There's no way the cabinet is going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr. Van Kent, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u170	Is it true, then, that this government does say that it is desirable that wages should rise, but that it should then sit on its hands and watch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u171	No. I can make a very wide-ranging argument here. I have just tried to do that and I do not think it makes sense to repeat it. No, we are taking a great deal of measures when it comes to reducing the burden, when it comes to, for example, the SAB, which I have just mentioned. The Labour Market and Balance Act, excuse, chairman. We are putting measures against the development that we are seeing in the increase in flexibilisation. I find it too easy for Mr Van Kent to say, "Forget it." We do a lot of parts in different policy areas to boost people's purchasing power and wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr Van Kent, you can now begin your second and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u173	Completely in accordance with the terms of the agreement, Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that with a law he will ensure that there will be less flex. We strongly disagree that that law is actually going to do so. But my question is about wage increases. That law will not create a direct wage increase. The government is counting on an increase in wages that is higher than is now achieved in the market when it comes to purchasing power effects in the long term. Does the Minister believe that the government should do nothing at all and leave it to employers and employees? Or does the government believe that it still has a responsibility to ensure, albeit not with a hard obligation, but at least with a slight compulsion, that this increase in wages, which everyone wants, is achieved as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u174	I would like to start again with a factual correction. Mr Van Kent is not giving the right picture. The Central Planbureau independently estimates the expected contract wage increase for the coming years. For 2019 it is indeed lower than was previously expected in the transfer of the coalition agreement. That's a setback, but it's part of the story that you tell the whole story, so also that inflation expectations are lower than expected in the coalition agreement. On balance, the real purchasing power, so what people can buy from their income, is broadly the same as when presenting the coalition agreement. So yes, the contract wage increase differs from the earlier expectations, but this does not mean that the purchasing power figures are also different from what was previously expected. In addition, of course, much more is changing. For example, care premiums are also subject to change. So it is important to look at the overall picture of overall developments and burden measures in the budget, too, and not to suggest that I think Mr Van Kent is doing so, and I think that it is just assumptions that are not based on anything. That's one. Mr Van Kent now says: I am not saying that, but he suggested that. I just want to make that right. Two: I have just argued that many measures are being taken, including by the Cabinet, whether it is a matter of reducing the burden, balancing the labour market and the five-track letter I sent to the Chamber in December, precisely to support the labour market and thus to achieve more balance between, for example, fixed and flex. I am convinced that this is good for the functioning of the labour market and thus also for, for example, the negotiating power of the trade unions when it comes to the flexibilisation that has gone through. That's two. Three: the Prime Minister, Mr Knot of the Netherlands Bank and I have said that we believe that there should actually be a higher increase in wages in those sectors where there is room for manoeuvre. That's what I've been radiated to social partners. That doesn't mean I'm going to intervene in collective bargaining. If a cabinet were to propose that, the SP would normally be the first to say: that is a disgrace; that is the freedom of contract of employers and trade unions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr. Van Kent, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u176	The fact remains that purchasing power is lagging behind, especially compared to the economic developments and growth of the Dutch economy. An increase in purchasing power of 0.6% is expected. That's very little. The increase in wages can make an important contribution to the increase in purchasing power, to the amount of money that people have in their pockets, and thus to further economic growth. Because people are going to spend that money again. It is only words that leave a call by the government, by the IMF, by the CPB; every club has called it now, but action must also be followed. I therefore call once again on this Minister not only to stick to a call and a statement, but also to act. 'Cause if it doesn't, it's gonna stick to paper, and that's not gonna help people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u177	The Minister. Shortly at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u178	I have just explicitly considered the year 2018. This is an intermediate year for which the budget was still made by the previous cabinet. The average median purchasing power increase is indeed 0.6% for all households. According to the Central Economic Plan of a month ago, this is 1.6% for 2019. So that is a very large static purchasing power development for next year. According to the transfer of the coalition agreement, it is 1.2% in subsequent years. Mr President, I am going to repeat myself in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u179	I suggest we don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u180	We are indeed taking measures to support purchasing power in the coming years and measures to improve the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u181	Did you have any points in this last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u182	There are still a few specific questions. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Dijk asked a question about people receiving benefits under the Wajong or the WIA and people working under wage costs subsidies. I am also going to refer to the debate with the Secretary of State on this matter. He has sent a general note on this subject. The remuneration dispensation will soon be discussed in this Chamber. That's what I said last week. I don't want to anticipate it. In a broad sense, the purchasing power of benefit recipients goes forward through the policy of the cabinet. This is also seen in the passing-through of the government agreement, for example by increasing the care allowance and increasing the general tax rebate. Mr Gijs van Dijk specifically said that lower incomes are affected by the rise in care premiums. That's right. At the same time, however, it is precisely at the bottom that there is a one-on-one compensation for the care allowance, which, for example, does not apply to middle incomes. This compensation will ensure that the purchasing power of beneficiaries of the benefit is increased by 0.6 and 0.8 in the coming years, on the basis of current expectations and accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u183	Last interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u184	This group, too, is improving, but it is making the least progress. But that's not what my question is about. We are talking about purchasing power in this debate and, of course, we are going to talk about pay dispensation in other debates. I think that is a bit easy to say, because, of course, this has an impact on purchasing power development for a large group. Does the Minister also see that this means for some of this group that purchasing power will fall rather than increase? That is what I would like to know from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u185	Part one: I would like to comment on the substance of the statement that they are making the least progress. We have really laid down measures in the coalition agreement to support the bottom and to benefit from the economic recovery. For them, the 0.8 and 0.6 will be released. Part two: it is also a conscious choice. In fact, we want to increase the difference between benefits and work, also because of another discussion I had with this Chamber, that is, about the on-going shortage in the labour market. Employers are jumping over people they can't find. How are we gonna get people with benefits to work? By increasing the difference between benefit and work, it pays to go to work. That is a deliberate policy choice. It is very tempting to deal now with the effect on purchasing power and to have a whole discussion on pay dispensation, but the following general notion is important. Suppose you are dependent on a Wajong benefit or other benefit or that you are dependent on the Participation Act and you are going to work, then of course you are meant to improve your income. This is also one of the starting points of Secretary of State Van Ark's proposal for the pay dispensation. Moreover, this applies to the new cases; the old cases remain under the old legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u186	Can the Minister guarantee that with pay dispensation for these new cases next year there will be an increase in purchasing power? I don't think so. And that's exactly the problem. That is the debate we are going to have later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u187	I can then say a few words and say: next year this law will not enter into force at all. So let us not have this discussion like this, I say to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Let us have a discussion on the content, on the main note of Secretary of State Van Ark, on which there will be a real wide-ranging debate shortly. A good debate, I am sure; it would be right. It is extremely important to bear in mind the objective of ensuring that people who are now on the side of the labour market are given a chance to become active in the labour market. I think that is an important starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u188	You can come back to that later in your second term, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr De Jong asked a specific question about 55-plussers with a benefit. We have had a debate earlier on the long-term situation of poverty. Of course, I am not going to say here that life on a benefit is a big deal. Fortunately, the number of long-term unemployed who find a job, including indeed many older people, has increased over the last period, although you still see an over-representation. That's what we talked about in the Chamber two weeks ago. Several measures have been taken or are on the way to help people get back to work as soon as possible. I can mention a whole list: 70 million for personal services; 30 million available through the Chamber for training by promising professions; development advice, to prepare people for another job. Well, I listed the whole list for you two weeks ago. I agree with Mr De Jong that this is a vulnerable group in the labour market. It is precisely a question of making policies for this group in order to increase the chances of finding a job. That has great attention from us as a cabinet. Mr Wiersma said that static purchasing power is opposed to growth. In my introduction, I explained what I meant in the letter to Mrs Van Brenk and the Chamber on the broader purchasing power picture. The specific question was: can we further divide real rewards by sector? That's not possible. The Central Planning Bureau makes an estimate for the macro-economics, i.e. for the overall economy. Of course, people sometimes go from one sector to another because there are deficits or surpluses somewhere. As far as I know, the CPB is not able to split this further into sectors. Mr Wiersma also asked a specific question about 1.2% premiums and taxes. I'll get the letter from last week. Table 1 on page 2 of that letter states "-1.2%" for the effect of taxes, premiums and surcharges. There's another footnote "A." In this you can see that these are the falling labour costs for workers, who naturally have a positive impact on purchasing power. This concerns the reduction of the burden by the cabinet, the two-wheel system, the general tax reduction, the child benefit, the labour discount that will be applied from 2019. You can also see this in this translation, in the purchasing power picture in this table. Well, it's a little confusing that there's a mistress in there. This has to do with a negative increase in charges, namely a reduction in charges. Mr Van Weyenberg asked what the Minister thinks of the idea of a fair paycheck, which gives us an insight into the overall working conditions area. I am aware of Mr Van Weyenberg's wish, which he also had in mind in the previous period. He is, of course, right to say that there are still substantial additional wage costs for employers on top of gross wages, which gives an incomplete picture of the collective wage increase that workers receive. Because employers' contributions also increase year by year, of course. From our previous experience with more complex pay slips, for which we have had the uniformation of the concept of pay, we know that it is especially useful for the employee to see what remains of his gross wage and to be paid as a net wage in his bank account. In 2013, we simplified the pay slip by means of the Law on Uniformation of Wage Concept, precisely because the criticism was that the pay slip was too complicated and no one really understood it. At that time, however, we said that in the annual report, which employers provide to employees, it should be made clear which contributions the employer has paid even more for the employee. This concerns the employer's share of the pension premium, the contribution to the Health Insurance Act and employee insurance contributions. I think that's a sensible combination. It is a good paycheck, a simple paycheck that is clear to everyone and also a better idea of what a person really costs to the employer, the total wage. But Mr Van Weyenberg talked about making the area of total working conditions clear. To be honest, I find that complicated, because that presupposes that there would be a hard formula for translating that wage space into the wage space at individual level. That is not always possible; think of super-legal WW or such schemes. I don't think there's such a formula. But I am now sure that Mr Van Weyenberg is going to ask me a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u190	I can see why you want a paycheck like this to be clear. But I do think it is important because there are a lot of things that are part of the conditions of employment for an employee, to which you are paid and to which you have paid yourself. Think about your pension, for example. One day a week, you work for that. But even if choices are made at collective bargaining tables for, for example, a third year of WW, you as an employee have the right to see what happens to your total wage. That it's complicated, I get it. But the principle is that there is still something to win now, whether it all can and can be done, I don't know, for example, by getting more insight into the idea of the fair paycheck of Robin Fransman, among others. The Minister is hopefully prepared to join me in the search for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u191	That's what we're gonna ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u192	I also see the importance of this insight, because a lot of people, of course, do not know exactly what is being paid by the employer on balance. That's where I see the importance. I am only in practice hacking into ICT, the salary administration and also against such a calculation formula. But let me think about it in the suspension, and maybe I can come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u193	That's good. I am going to do that in the second term, and then with something that might give the Minister a little more time than just the suspension to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u194	I'm curious. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have now received a response to the ESB article of 8 February that Mrs Van Brenk asked for, so it does not have to wait until the second term. The aiq. Going down. Indeed, the burdens go up and the consumptions go down. I believe that this picture is in line with what I made clear in last week's letter, precisely what I explained about the different phases since 2008, 2009. After the crisis, the cake first came to the government and companies through balance sheet recovery, i.e. through the deficit of the government that was overrun and companies that became more profitable again. Households had less to spend because of unemployment and the higher burden. In many cases, the value of their homes plummeted. So you also have a capital effect, because the house prices went down. This meant that people were going to save more. This also had a consumer effect for the economy. In the Netherlands this decline in consumption has also been stronger than abroad, especially since we have long balances in the Netherlands, as it is called. We have a lot of compulsory savings, in pension funds but also in mortgages, for example, and we have a lot of money stuck. As a result, a capital change, i.e. a decrease in the value of the house, has a more direct effect on consumption, on disposable income in the Netherlands. Only now, in 2018 and 2019, we see an increasing share of households in the cake. I tried to make that clear in last week's letter, with those two thirds. In line with this development, the Central Planning Office also estimates an increase in the labour income ratio of aiq. is therefore going to rise a little bit again and also expects consumption to attract more. So this image of the ESB is in line with the letter I sent you last week. That's it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Minister. We have had an extensive debate in the first term. The second term from the Chamber is now beginning. It will be brief: one minute's speaking time, including the possibility of tabling motions in those one minute. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u196	Very soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, despite the support provided by the Empire and municipalities, it may be difficult to live on a long-term low income basis;]] [[Whereas the proportion of households at long-term risk of poverty has increased in recent years, including by increasing the number of households long-term dependent on assistance;]] [[Furthermore, considering that households at risk of poverty are more likely to be affected by late payments and debts;]] [[calls on the government to give a broad picture of the effectiveness and efficiency of state and municipal income support and the adequacy of the minimum social standards, and to report to the Chamber within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas income policy should be based on the most complete picture of purchasing power development;]] [[calls on the government to include in the usual reports on purchasing power also the median purchasing power development of pensioners based on birth cohorts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-96]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u197	Mr President, I have one more question for the Minister. Figure 6 of the ESB shows that the labour income ratio of the total economy of the Netherlands within Europe is very low. We would really like, if necessary together, to have a search from the SZW committee to get more clarity about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Prime Minister's first-term replies. I have two motions. The first one is about the government. I understand very well how the reference system works, but we can see that this system is always slowing down behind contract wage development in the market. So that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Prime Minister, De Nederlandsche Bank, the Central Planning Bureau and the trade unions advocate a wagewave;]] [[believes that teachers, police officers and civil servants should be assured of a decent income and less workload;]] [[Whereas the government can set a good example by starting the wagewave;]] [[calls on the government to make sufficient funds available for collective bargaining to increase salaries and reduce workload;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u200	This motion is neatly covered from the left-wing counter-budget. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that as a working person you must be sure of at least the minimum wage and pension structure;]] [[believes that people with disabilities are worth as much as anyone else;]] [[calls on the government to remove the 500 million cut on people with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u201	And this motion is also covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is sufficient to refer to the debates on this subject for cover. What has emerged from this debate is a huge difference between, on the one hand, economic growth and the giga profits that companies make and, on the other hand, the purchasing power of people who are lagging behind enormously and wages that are not rising fast enough. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine what measures can be taken to increase wages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you, Mr President. However, a disappointing outcome of this debate as far as I am concerned, because the picture that was outlined a few months ago in relation to purchasing power is actually being continued. Unrealistic and dependent on many factors, including, for example, wage increases which the minister is not about but what employers are about. But we'll see. I'm just trying to make sure that at the end of the ride, people are really gonna feel something in their wallets. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch economy is growing by more than 3% this year and next year;]] [[noting that the purchasing power of citizens in the Netherlands is barely increasing, making them hardly benefit from this growth;]] [[calls on the government to achieve real relief for citizens with the aim of substantially increasing real disposable income so that citizens benefit from the improving economic developments in the Netherlands and will really notice this in their pockets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Jong and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u205	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his answers. I also very much agree with him that social partners are ultimately involved in collective bargaining. I'd like to leave it that way. I have a motion on the fair paycheck. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wage costs and the distribution of wage space are determined by more than just collective wages, such as further agreements on pensions, social security or sustainable employability;]] [[Whereas employees do not always have a view of these different components of their wage bill and would benefit from having an insight into what the wage space is spent on;]] [[whereas there have recently been proposals for a so-called "fair pay slip";]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the various components of the wage bill can be made clear on their pay slips, monthly or yearly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u206	For the co-signatory of this motion, I have found someone not called Van Dijk, namely Mr Wiersma. In order to keep an eye on whether collective wage agreements really attract, as we all think, I expect the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse and repeat his earlier calls. I think that's important. Mr Heerma will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf in order to get a closer look at the development of wages and aiq.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u207	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u208	A wide range of concerns have been expressed from the Chamber about the aiq. Mrs Van Brenk also mentioned it in her term, as did Mr Van Weyenberg. The Minister nuances that image and says that it is not so bad compared to England and America. He sketches the picture that contract wages may rise again in the coming year. Still, I want this to be better figured out. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the labour income ratio has fallen in recent years and that contract wage increases appear to be lagging behind, as noted inter alia by DNB;]] [[considers that further research is needed into the relationship between labour market flexibility, the labour income ratio and the backwardness of wage growth;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how current wage growth, the share of national income going to households, employment and unused potential relate to recovery in previous crises and to informing the Court of Justice of developments in other countries in the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XV-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr President, thank you. The colleagues from D66 and the CDA have mowed the grass at my feet and tabled very good motions, also on behalf of the VVD. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am particularly pleased, in the search for purchasing power and its transfer to the private wallet, that the -1.2 in the table on real remuneration, which the Minister just explained, is a very positive minus and has a very good effect on that real reward. I think that clarification will help. In addition, I would find it interesting that we continue this search, so that at some point we may be able to go deeper into those categories. I wonder if the Minister, for example with the CBS or the CBP, would like to see whether you could not picture the various groups of workers and perhaps even sectors in this way. Finally. We wholeheartedly support the motion of D66 on more insight into the pay slip and the motion of the colleague of the CDA on further research into the aiq., because insight and overview do help in the difficult discussion about purchasing power plates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u210	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, so that the Minister has the opportunity to look at the motions together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u211	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to give his appreciation of the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u212	Sorry, Chairman, one point. I'm just gonna walk over to the civil servant's lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u213	Great consternation. The Minister now has Figure 6 and can answer that question. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I do not have Figure 6 of the ESB on hand when it comes to Mrs Van Brenk's question about the international equation of aiq. I could go to a story and guess, but I won't. I will come back to how this is exactly compared internationally. I think it has something to do with our international special position. Also in the trade surplus, we have part of the explanation of the presence of large multinationals in the Netherlands, which makes the trade surplus greater than in neighbouring countries. But I see all kinds of people looking hurt, I don't let them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u215	Will you come back to that in writing, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u216	Yes, I will return to that in writing. On a later topic, I take it with me in my answer. The first motion by Mrs Van Brenn on item No. 96 calls on the government to give a broad picture of the effectiveness and efficiency of state and municipal income support and the adequacy of the minimum social standard. I'd like to discourage this motion. We regularly do this, at least as a government, through SCP reports, CBS reports and Nibud reports. This subject is also regularly mapped, for example, in the Dutch social state or in the poverty monitor. I do not think it is appropriate to add another report. In addition, when it comes to policy effectiveness, we have a normal cycle of ibos, inter-departmental policy reviews, policy evaluations and also on my budget a few evaluations are carried out every year to see how effective the policy is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u217	Mrs. Van Brenk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u218	We are going to talk about the social state of the Netherlands, but we were particularly concerned about the level of the social minimum, whether that is sufficient. Actually, that's our search. We would also like your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr President, I think that research is actually carried out annually or biennially by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Indeed, the poverty monitor looks at the social minimum. Is that enough? That's really in the standard reports, I say to Mrs Van Brenk. The motion in part No. 97 calls on the government to include, in the usual reports on purchasing power, the median purchasing power development per birth cohort of pensioners as well. I would also like to strongly discourage this motion. We have so much information about the static purchasing power development in the points clouds and tables that are made clear to the budget every year. Moreover, it is also a kind of false accuracy, I say. We now have so many purchasing power plates that we almost have point clouds on an individual level. The Minister of Finance sent you another letter of the week on the development of the income and wealth position of the elderly, where there is indeed a shift in cohorts, with older pensioners on average having a lower supplementary pension and lower capital than younger pensioners. That's a nice letter, from my head on Monday, from the Minister of Finance. But to include this standard in the static purchasing power analysis has little added value in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u220	Thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u221	It has a huge added value because you can see the purchasing power of a 65-year-old when he is 75. But it's not supposed to compare that 65-year-old to that time. It's really about seeing what a person really needs in purchasing power during the ten years of his cohort. That's really different than comparing the 65-year-old from that time to the 65-year-old from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u222	Your question is clear. Let's see if that leads to another appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u223	No, Mr. Chairman, that doesn't lead to any other appreciation. Otherwise, you would have to map the income development of individual Dutch people throughout their lives and see what happens next. To be honest, that does not make much sense. This also does not contribute to the clarity of this debate, as we have also seen today that there are many differences in definitions. Let's set a good example. That is what the motion is about in part No. Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Ozdil and Mr Van Kent. The motion calls on the government to make sufficient funds available for the collective bargaining negotiations, and I think that this is about collective bargaining in the Empire for more salary and less workload. I have just said that this is a responsibility of the Minister of the Interior in relation to the trade unions. I have also explained that, on the basis of the reference system, the budget will indeed be available when collective agreements in the market sector increase. That is why I must advise against this motion. I also find the cover striking. There's no cover. Reference is made to the left-wing counter-budget, which postpones many of the government's relief measures, such as the flat tax. But this is entrapment, Mr. Chairman. I shouldn't have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u224	Very briefly, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u225	I can explain the coverage, because the left-wing counter-budget has been neatly calculated. The coverage is found in reversing the abolition of the dividend tax.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u226	The Minister has given his appreciation. Then we go to the motion-Gijs van Dijk c.s. in piece No. 99.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u227	Same goes for... Excuse me? I'm being asked a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u228	No, no, no. There is absolutely no question asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u229	Okay. The motion in part No. 99 of Mr Gijs Van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Brenk asked the government to withdraw the 500 million cut on people with disabilities. I have one comment to make: in addition to the 500 million proceeds from the pay dispensation, there is also 500 million for intensification, for extra sheltered workplaces for people who are remote from the labour market. So that is one relative remark. In addition, there will be a debate with Secretary of State Van Ark. Then you can also have the debate on this. Now I advise against this motion. By the way, there is again no cover, unless we go back to the dividend tax, but then we spend it five times. Mr. Chairman. The Van Kent c.s. motion. in piece No. 100 calls on the government to examine what measures can be taken to increase wages. In my view, I have argued extensively in the debate what the combination of measures is. This is about the measures we have taken in the coalition agreement to make the economic attraction felt among people in the wallet. That is why I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u230	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u231	No, no, no. The Minister gives an appreciation of the motion. The motion has been the subject of the debate. You just had the opportunity to interrupt Mr Van Kent. Minister, you are going to the appreciation of the motion-De Jong/Tony van Dijck in part No. 101.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u232	The motion in part No. 101 was indeed tabled by Mr De Jong and Mr Tony van Dijck. There is a confusing amount of Van Dijks in this Chamber. This motion calls on the government to achieve real relief for citizens, with the aim of increasing real disposable income. We are already doing this on the basis of the coalition agreement. That is what I have argued in detail today. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Moreover, this motion is not covered, unless Mr De Jong wishes to join Mr Gijs van Dijk's left-wing counter-budget, but I do not think that is the case. The motion in part No. 102 asks the Government to examine how the various components of the wage bill can be made clear on their pay slips, monthly or yearly. That motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma. I would like to draw up a letter on this for you, in order to map this out. For that, I also need to consult with the Secretary of State for Finance. If I may do so, I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u233	There's a nod in agreement. Your interpretation will be taken over by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u234	The motion in part No. 103 of Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma are concerned with examining current wage growth, the share of national income, the aiq., employment and the unexploited labour potential. I very much agree with the authors that this is a very important issue, which we have not yet got enough of. I said in the first term that the Central Planning Bureau is currently conducting research to better map this issue. I will be happy to inform you about this. We'll think about how we're gonna do that. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr Heerma is probably going to ask me: when then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u235	The Minister has already indicated in the debate that sometimes he should not do something and then he should do it. In this case, he appreciated what my question was. When will we be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u236	The Central Planning Bureau is the main referee and researcher here, but the CPB is independent. At the same time, I understand the urgency of the question. At the CPB I will find out what the timetable is and I will try to get a better picture of it at least for the budgetary treatment of SZW. I see Mr Heerma frowning on, but this is a complicated investigation, especially if you want to make an international comparison. You don't just find out, but I'm going to do my best, because I'm also very interested in the analysis and the underlying factors that influence me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u237	A brief question from Mr Van Dijk, which leads him to know what proposal he can make to his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u238	I support Mr Heerma's appeal. We will soon have a debate on this, so all possible information, including on DNB and flexibilisation, before then would be good for us, also for our sense of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u239	I interpret Mr Heerma's question as something else. The Centraal Planbureau and De Nederlandsche Bank have made analyses of the development of the aiq. and the possible impact of flexibilisation on that aiq. Both research offices have indicated that they expect something to be there, but they do not see a causal link. Mr Heerma's motion goes one step further. He wants a broad relationship with the unexploited workforce. I think that is right because you also want to know how the labour market reacts. I see Mr Heerma's motion as a further step to gain more insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u240	I thank the Minister for his contribution to the debate and the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u241	Next Tuesday we will be voting on the motions.
