ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	In the meantime, I see the Minister of Finance has arrived. Welcome. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller, on behalf of D66, for his question to the Minister of Finance, on the report that several fellow participants are reconsidering their presence at the conference following the disappearance of a Saudi Arab journalist in Turkey. I call Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every time a journalist is silenced, freedom of the press crumbles as a foundation under democracy. Speaking of the OSCE representative for media freedom earlier this week. With the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, a considerable block of stone has been pulled out of this foundation. On 2 October, this renowned journalist in Istanbul entered the consulate of his country Saudi Arabia. He was never seen alive after that. What exactly happened is mainly the subject of speculation, but certainly not all scenarios are equally likely. To stay in the words of this minister: I have pattern recognition here. Pattern 1: the Saudi regime that systematically persecutes or eliminates critics, human rights defenders and other defenders of freedom. Pattern 2: The freedom of the press under pressure. This year alone, 44 journalists were murdered worldwide. In this case both patterns come together in a repulsive way. My first question to the Minister. What steps has the Netherlands taken so far to find out the truth? According to this minister, is this truth finding still possible at all now that the consulate has been thoroughly cleaned and painted? Second. This minister himself is on the agenda of the Future Investment Initiative next week in Riyadh, the Davos in the desert... in the panel with the Saudi Minister of Finance at a conference chaired by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman himself. At that time appearing at that place as a representative of the Netherlands is a completely wrong signal as far as D66 is concerned. In the meantime, many large companies have also cancelled. In recent days, the Minister has rightly reconsidered his participation. My question to him is: what is his conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to Mr Sneller for the questions that have been asked. Mr. Chairman. I read the newspapers like you and your members and I see the news. I also dare to say that I read about this almost every hour and I think we all have the same emotions: horror, amazement. At the moment, there is, understandably and rightly, also a lot of discussion about the very values that we in the Netherlands and in the rest of the Western world have very high and very high. This is about values such as freedom of expression and free speech. This applies to citizens, and so does journalists. They should be able to express their opinion without any fear. Every murder is horrible, but I deliberately declare it cautious, as Mr Sneller also did, the disappearance or suspected murder of a journalist, in this case Jamal Khashoggi, is particularly shocking to the rule of law and to the free speech, because journalists have a special role in our society. The fact that the murder would have taken place at a consulate is, of course, terrible. The Netherlands, like the rest of the Western world, wants to have clarity about the fate of Khashoggi and, assuming the worst, also know who has this on their conscience. As you know, Minister Blok has already indicated that the Netherlands is in favour of the joint declaration by France, Duisland and the United Kingdom. We therefore call for a credible investigation into the disappearance of Khashoggi. As far as we are concerned, it is crucial that those responsible are identified and held accountable. Mr Sneller is right that this has changed the context of the conference. He was right to say that several speakers and companies have cancelled. As I said, the situation is in full swing; sometimes it literally changes from hour to hour. Many questions have not yet been answered, but for the clarity, with the concerns and uncertainties as they are now on the table, it is not in my opinion reasonable that I should go there. I would add that I am in close contact with my colleague from State Department, Minister Blok, and that we will have to take the final decision of the Cabinet, precisely because of the uncertainties, at the end of this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for his first reaction. I'm also glad he's letting himself be kept in the loop about what's going on there. In the coalition agreement and broad in this Chamber, freedom of the press is a priority. That is why I think it is right that there should be a different attitude towards that conference. It would be a wrong signal to appear in that place for the coming period. The Minister is talking about a credible investigation. My question is to color that a little further. There is a joint investigation between the Turkish and Saudi authorities. Does that meet that definition? There is an appeal from the UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression, who says it must be done under the auspices of the Security Council. The Netherlands is now a member of it. Is that what he's referring to when he says, a credible investigation? Or is he referring to another investigation? If you look at what is happening and President Erdogan says that the consulate has been painted over, it tends to be an unbelievable investigation, which would take place there at the moment, as far as possible. Let's face it, all the signals are actually on red, because the story that goes around that this would happen by unauthorized armed men in a consulate, during an unauthorized interrogation, while this is a strictly controlled regime, is still an unbelievable scenario. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. The minister says he'll make that decision by the end of the week. I assume that the Chamber will hear about this in good time, so that, should it work out any other way, we can look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	To that last question, of course. I can also imagine that from the Chamber. As far as credible research is concerned, I find it difficult to answer this question in detail, also given my responsibilities. I would like to take that up again with the Minister of State, but of course there are many positions in the world about this research and what it should be. I do not think I can or should wish to speak on this at the moment. That's going too far here. But I understand clearly what Mr Sneller is saying and I would like to assure him that I will pass it on to Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'd love to. And thank you. I also understand the responsibility of this minister. I am very happy with how he fills this out and that he takes this step. I also see it from the spokesmen on the Interrupt Microphone: the problems with the freedom of the press and with Saudi Arabia are greater, so the approach must also be broader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor for an interruption to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Saudi Arabia is a country that really seems to want to break every rule. This applies not only to this issue, but also, of course, to what is happening in Yemen, where war crimes are being committed. Take, for example, the handling of religious and ordinary minorities in the country. There's a lot wrong. I have just heard the Minister refer to the Foreign Minister and I understand that, but I think it is also necessary to consider our position vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia. D66 has always advocated a European arms embargo. I would also like to know from the cabinet what it means, all of this combined, for the policy towards that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I understand that question very well from Mr Sjoerdsma. I think he will understand from me at the same time that it is up to me, of course in consultation with the cabinet, to reach a decision on next week's conference. Mr Sjoerdsma, in my opinion, has been very well introduced into the foreign portfolio and is therefore aware of the views of the Dutch Government and the always complex balance between foreign policy and what is being said at what time and what is not being said and trade interests. I would like to have his question answered, but I would like to say to him that this is up to Minister Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	Can that be in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	I see Mr Sjoerdsma making a gesture that I interpret as "writing a letter." So I'd like to tell him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	Just a moment to ask whether we're going or not. I hear the Minister say: I am in close consultation with the Foreign Minister and at the end of the week we are taking a final decision. But what information do we need from the Foreign Minister? Suppose it stays the way it is now, namely that there is an investigation going on and that not everything is clear. Then, of course, the Foreign Minister cannot say more than what he told us in general consultation last week when we asked him about it. What is the decision of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think Mr Van Helvert recognizes that, precisely because of the great importance of this matter and because of the great sensitivity I share with the Chamber, I try to choose my words very carefully. I've tried to make a distinction. On the one hand, there are concerns and many uncertainties and uncertainties on the table at the moment, both with regard to the conference and with regard to the case that we all naturally have to deal with. That is why, as far as I am concerned, if I had to decide now, it would not be reasonable. However, I would point out that I have had close discussions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and that we have said as a cabinet: precisely because of the uncertainties that remain, we want to make the final decision at the end of this week. That seems to me to be balanced, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Every day the messages become clearer and clearer about what happened in the consulate. We find out more and more, and that points in one direction, namely that the journalist was murdered in the consulate. My question to the Minister is now what else is needed for him to say: I am not going now. Of course, especially in foreign policy, it is important to proceed in a balanced manner, but there are events here, this is one of the ones where you have to stand up for your own values and not so much for your own interests. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	I believe that I have tried, with Mrs Ploumen, to emphasise these values in the comprehensive answer I started with to Mr Sneller, and why we, as a cabinet, but also personally, consider it crucial that we convey them to the world. That is why I wanted to distinguish between the situation as it is today and the many uncertainties surrounding this case. I suspect that the MPs with as much intensity follow the coverage as I do. It is true that every few hours there is a new fact. In many cases, that is not a positive fact either, and this is a new cause for concern, but I think this is balanced. So I said what I think about it and stressed the great concerns that we, as the Netherlands, have. At the same time, precisely because of the uncertainties, I have made this agreement in close consultation with the Foreign Minister, whose portfolio this is primarily about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	A second supplementary question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	It is disappointing that the Minister is not taking a decision now, but I would like to ask him what other measures the cabinet is considering, given that the events are more or less uncontested. Will Minister Kaag, for example, be welcome to cancel her trade mission scheduled for, I believe, mid-November? Wouldn't that be reason enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I have really tried to make it absolutely clear how serious I think this case is and I have tried to make it very clear how I see it and what the Dutch Government is currently setting up. Mrs Ploumen asked about the wider implications of this for the Foreign Minister and perhaps also for the Minister for BuHa-OS. So I should not speculate about that in this Question Time with Mrs Ploumen. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	It is incredibly harsh and cruel that the whole world is seeing war crimes of the Saudi regime being swallowed by Muhammad bin Salman through a PR show for years. Yemen is facing the biggest humanitarian disaster. The West or the United States and all kinds of European countries sell weapons to this regime and those weapons, which are dropped bombs on Yemeni children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	Women's rights activists are being locked up, and now that miserable disappearance of the journalist comes along. Why does the government not dare to take a firm stand against this at the moment and say: we are abandoning this regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think I have been as clear about this as possible, but I am happy to repeat it. I have endorsed the importance we attach to freedom of the press in general, and I have also endorsed and tried to articulate that it is crucial for the Dutch Government that the bottom stone should emerge here and that given the concerns we have at the moment, should I now have to decide, it is not reasonable to go there. But Mrs Karabulut makes it wider and actually asks about the Dutch position vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia. I would nevertheless like to refer to the Foreign Minister, who will have to provide a well-founded answer to this question. He will probably want to know in more detail how this situation will end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	I find it difficult to understand the position of the Minister of Finance, however nuanced. In fact, he says if I had to decide now, I wouldn't go, but I don't decide until Friday. The question then is, of course, what does the Minister think he will hear between now, Tuesday afternoon and Friday, on the basis of which he will take his decision with good decency, which he would now take, namely not to go, to review and still go. I don't understand. My imagination is failing at that point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	It doesn't happen often, but Mr Van Ojik is a little short for me here. I have said that, precisely because of the great concerns and uncertainties that lie on the table and the way the cards are now, it is not reasonable to go, but in the uncertainties and uncertainties we see developments almost from hour to hour; I think Mr Van Ojik will agree with me. These developments give more insight, but in some cases also increase the confusion and the ominous character. So I think it is important to say now what I can say about this. That is why I am clear about what I think about it, but at the same time Mr Pompeo, the US Secretary of State, is speaking at the same time. All sorts of messages have appeared in the media. The Turks and the Saudis watched the consulate together. So you can say with good decency that there is still a lot unclear. That seems to me to be an important point for the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	I would like to thank the Minister for his possible position. My question is this. We're going Thursday night, Thursday night with recess. Would the Minister please inform us of the wish of 50PLUS, possibly shared by the Chamber, that we would like to know on Thursday what that position is? If there were to be a different view, we would still be able to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	I said "end this week" and I want to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Van Rooijen, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	The Minister has a position now. Can he explain why, if he, or rather the cabinet, takes a different view at the Foreign Minister's intercession, he will do so on Friday and not on Thursday, which is perhaps a wish of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'm trying to do it with precision. Of course, it is not excluded that there will be complete clarity for Friday, but Mr Van Rooijen, like me, knows that there will be a meeting on Friday that is relevant to the members of the cabinet, namely the Council of Ministers. I have already indicated that I would like to wait in close contact with and on the initiative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see what uncertainties could be removed in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	For more than a week, the international community has been putting pressure on it. We see that as the pressure increases, more and more information is being released. We also heard last night that CNN would have evidence in its hands that there would be work on a joint statement and so on. In that list, it would fit very well if the Foreign Minister were to continue to press for further information at the moment, without waiting for the Council of Ministers, but really at the moment. The Minister is constantly talking about great uncertainties. I would like to ask the Minister what for him are these great uncertainties in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Kuzu spoke about the Foreign Minister, but I think he means me, although Mr Blok is of course also very much concerned about this dossier. The concerns, I think, are obvious. They also exchanged all the members of the Chamber. I think the uncertainties are obvious, too. There are all kinds of uncertainties about what exactly happened. There are also speculations about things that the Saudi Arabians may still be coming out with; Mr Kuzu will have seen that too. There is now a discussion in Saudi Arabia with the United States Secretary of State. So there are still a lot of uncertainties. Once again, the Foreign Minister supported the call by the three major European countries for research. In doing so, he has rightly pointed out, I think that we should at least have clarified those uncertainties as much as possible. There is a broader question with regard to Saudi Arabia and there is a specific question with regard to the conference. For that last point, of course, I agree with Mr Kuzu on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	A second supplementary question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	But with regard to the great uncertainties, the Minister of Finance indicates that we are dependent on statements from Saudi. I think that's a very strange thing to do. I would like to ask the Dutch Finance Minister where the difference lies between his position and that of Trump, for example, who also makes bizarre statements about it, which I find difficult to reconcile with the western values we have. Mr. Chairman. It is only one thing, and I really want to know that very clearly from the Minister. What's more important to him? Are those trade interests, trade relations...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	... or the values he's talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	Various allies are also mentioned here. It is wise, already for the Foreign Minister but certainly for me, not to detect others in this debate. So I don't want to do that. On the contrary, I wanted to emphasise the very great importance that the Dutch Government attaches to the fundamental Dutch values. I have, of course, dealt specifically with the possibility of saying what you think, as a citizen and also as a journalist, and I have also expressed my disgust at what seems to have happened to this journalist. At least he's gone, and we're all afraid he's been murdered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Chamber itself decided not to go to Russia because of the Russian hack. We did not think it was politically appropriate to do so. The Minister now says: we are seriously considering not travelling. Just as alive to the participants in the investment conference, it would be nice to let them know in time. The Minister of Finance says he's still waiting for the Americans to react. I am sure he knows, as I do, that the Americans have agreed a $110 billion arms deal with the Saudis and are not jumping to take all kinds of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	And the question is, Mr. Voordewind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	The question is whether the Finance Minister should be dependent on the Americans for his decisions, and I say that as an understatement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	No, but Mr Voordewind knows that I did not say that either. I have given several examples of uncertainties on this dossier. I think we all want to have more information on what actually happened as soon as possible. That's what we're looking for. I pointed out the uncertainties. Whatever position the Americans or others take, we, as the Netherlands, will of course have to take a position of our own. It is not for nothing that the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the declaration made by Germany, the United Kingdom and France. These are the countries he is in close contact with in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you. You have just made a promise that the Chamber will receive a letter. Does the Minister know when that letter will reach the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State for BuHa-OS. I think Mr Blok is in Brussels at the moment. Maybe I can let the Chamber know at the end of this day when that letter is in? So I do not promise that the letter will be there at the end of this day, but the Chamber will know when the letter will come. I made that commitment in response to Mr Sneller's question about what type of research we call credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you.
