ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u1	We will continue the debate on the roll-out of the 5G network in one smooth motion. There are eight speakers on the side of the Chamber. The first is Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group, who like everyone else four minutes... Oh, I have to wait for the right minister, recovery. I thought it was a debate with the minister from the previous debate. Sorry about that. We're waiting for the Secretary of State for EZK and the Secretary of Defense. I'm reopening. The next item is the debate on the roll-out of the 5G network. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Defence. That's the order today. We have eight speakers on the side of the Chamber. The first is Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group. He has four minutes of speaking time, like everyone else. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the world ends, I go to the Netherlands, because everything happens 50 years later. That statement was attributed to the German writer Henrich Heine, who characterized our country's reputation in the sleepy nineteenth century. But Heine should now look at the Netherlands: Europe's fastest growing and most competitive economy, the digital leader when it comes to fast internet. Fast and a lot of internet is now no longer luxurious but necessary, for all companies, students, researchers and Netflixers, who burst with data hunger. We simply cannot afford to have the future in the Netherlands but a little later. That future is, of course, 5G, the fifth generation of mobile data communications. 5G is a hundred times faster than 4G. That's gonna be necessary in a couple of years. Without 5G no self-driving car, no internet of things and not the massive, fast data traffic that is requested. Europe has agreed on how to roll out the network. For D66 it is clear: the spectrum on the 3.5GHz band is necessary to deliver at least the same quality 5G as Heinrich Heine's Germany. We only have one problem: our intelligence services are in our way, namely in Burum with their satellite station. They are glutton on the 3,5GHz-band and refuse to share the space on that band for tests with 5G. Why, that's how I ask the Secretary of Defense. We asked the experts at the round table, who said: sharing is difficult, but possible, with respect for the interests of national security. Is it not a question of being able to do so, but of wanting to do so? Let me get this straight. And does the Minister see the enormous economic and social importance of 5G for the Netherlands? If so, why do its services continue to block all tests and tests with 5G? Mr. Chairman. Let's face it, we're gonna make more progress on this case. In 2011 there has already been research into this problem: can we not put a screen around Burum to prevent interference? That turned out to be unfeasible. The fact is that we were already aware of the great problem that awaits us. What happened in all these years after that, I ask the Secretary of State. It is a good thing that six directions have finally been identified, for which I am grateful. That is also what D66 was trying to achieve with this debate. They also raise some questions about sharing the band. There would possibly be a decreasing importance of that band for intelligence purposes. What is the basis of this suggestion, I ask the Secretary of Defense. The technique: the satellites in Burum are years old. There are several newer ways of gathering intelligence. From when does the Minister expect to stop needing these dishes in Burum? How do the neighbouring countries deal with the provision of the 3.5GHz band? Many countries have already made their choice. The Netherlands must also make a quick choice and provide clarity, starting with the multiband auction, including the 700MHz band, which is needed for the local basic coverage of 5G. Can the Secretary of State guarantee us here today that that auction will take place next year? There must be clarity about the Dutch intentions with the 3.5GHz band, because companies are not going to open up a bag of money at an auction for a basic coverage if they do not know what to do with that basic coverage. Can the Secretary of State guarantee us that before the end of this year she will decide on the auction of this band? If so, when does it expect to be able to organise the auction moment for the 3.5GHz band? Mr President, a few final questions to the Minister. Is the Minister in consultation with her German colleague about interference in the border region? Will the Minister discuss the 5G issue and the Signals Intelligence function of Burum with other colleagues, for example in the NATO context? Is the Minister prepared to share the capacity of the 3.5GHz band that it does not need with private parties under certain conditions? Finally, a question to the Secretary of State. Fast internet is of great importance for the outlying areas, but is often not cost-effective and is not quickly constructed. D66 wants people in the outskirts to be able to benefit fully from 5G. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u3	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u4	A clear and clear argument, but it is much about technology and the role of the government. Is there also a role for users? Do you have a picture with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u5	That's an excellent question. We believe that the needs of users should be properly identified. We would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether the user needs....................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u6	The next speaker is Mr Weverling of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u7	Good. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been among the frontrunners in digitalisation and connectivity for years. Through joint efforts by business and government, the vast majority of Dutch people have access to fast internet and the latest mobile technologies. No one in the Netherlands can imagine a life in which you do not quickly check Buienradar before you leave the door, check the latest news on the street or send some emails quickly during a train ride. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, we will continue to make full use of the latest communication techniques in the coming years. The roll-out of 5G plays an undeniable role in this. This is also the reason why the Chamber talks about this regularly. It is also a subject in the political arena on which there is a great deal of agreement. I have previously tabled a motion to clarify the auction dates of the different frequency bands needed for the future roll-out of 5G. This clarification and urgency are necessary, particularly in view of the investments that telecom companies will have to make in the near future. This clarity was also highlighted in previous debates........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This turned out once again when it became clear that the ground satellite station in Burum uses the main frequency band needed for the roll-out of 5G, the 3,5GHz band. That is why the VVD Group is also pleased that the Secretary of State for EZK and the Minister of Defence are jointly seeking solutions. For the VVD, the following matters are still important at the moment. First of all... The Chamber has asked the Cabinet to come forward with a decision before the end of this year on how to deal with the Burum ground-satellite station. My question to the Minister of Defence is: do you think this is feasible? Can you describe the implementation time for each of these solutions? As far as we are concerned, it would be undesirable for the implementation of the chosen direction of solution to take time, as we are already lagging behind abroad in order to roll out 5G. Secondly, can the Secretary of Defense comment on the importance of the Burum ground-satellite station? What role does this station play in international efforts to obtain intelligence to promote state security? Are alternatives available at present or in the near future? Are the techniques currently used in Burum still usable in the coming years? Thirdly, the State Secretary has indicated that some frequency bands can already be auctioned in 2019. The auction moment for the 3,5GHz band is not yet known, also due to the TNO investigation on Burum. As has been said, the results are expected at the end of this year. I would like the Secretary of State to answer the question as to whether this also means that at the end of this year a date can be set for the auction of that 3.5GHz band. Finally, we are dealing with a complicated dossier, the subject of which is cross-departmental. This does not always make things as easy for the Chamber as for the rulers themselves. The VVD would like to see one ruler leading this file. Of course there is room for consultation between the different directors, but having a single contact makes matters a little less complicated. As far as we are concerned, this would be in good hands with the EZK Secretary of State. Is it prepared to take on this role and ensure that this dossier remains clear? Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, a solution will be found this year which will guarantee both a rapid and effective roll-out of 5G while at the same time not compromising our state security. It would be nice if this debate could take a step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u8	Thank you. One more question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u9	Mr Weverling refers to the solutions mentioned in the letter of the rulers, I think six. Does Mr Weverling have the impression that these are all complete and final solutions to give people access to fast internet via 5G?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u10	I understand that you think I know all of that, but that is not the case, Mr Moorlag. So I was in itself positive about the letter from the cabinet containing a number of directions for resolution. I therefore hope that this will be taken up quickly and that we can actually take a decision before the end of the year and know where we are going, and that it will not delay us again because we have to work on one of the solutions again, because that is not what is important in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u11	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u12	Mr President, I do not wish to create the illusion that I know exactly what all these techniques are, certainly not. I might even be happy with that. But without knowing anything about the techniques, does Mr Weverling share the view that you should arrange access for 5G via the 3.5GHz band for all residents of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u13	I think I can endorse that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u14	Well, the next speaker is Mr Moorlag from the Labour Party. In general, Mr Moorlag, you are to come here as well. You have a good voice, but you won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u15	Mr. Chairman. People in the Netherlands should be able to be sure of the availability of fast internet. Fast internet has become a basic need. For young people, who want to work together on a school assignment and also want to play games. For entrepreneurs in the outskirts, for farmers who want to go into high-tech precision agriculture. People really long for that new, fast 5G technique. They want to be rid of the feeling that they consume yogurt by a straw. They want to get rid of the slow connections. Fast internet is also of vital importance. For sick and elderly people living at home, who become dependent on home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based home-based So fast internet must quickly become available through the best available techniques. That's 5G through the 3.5GHz band. That's what the PvdA is aiming for. And to my taste, the whole Chamber must set itself the goal. And both rulers should set themselves the same goal. Is that what they are aiming for? I appreciate the efforts of the rulers, where they have shown the directions for resolution. I appreciate that very much, but my concern and the concern of my party have not been taken away. For some of those directions of solution seem to me, although I have no understanding of the technique, not to be conclusive or complete. They seem to be only partial solutions. Is that right? What is meant by geographical exclusion zones? Does that mean that you just exclude part of the population, part of the geographical area, from 5 GHz via the 3.5GHz band? Isn't a number of solutions suboptimal? What is License Shared Access? I understand from the letter that with one weather type you have fast internet, but not with the other weather type. That's impossible, isn't it? A doctor who can make a diagnosis in sunny weather and not in cloudy weather: shouldn't we want that? Do the rulers share that view? The PvdA wants a complete solution. Everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to the best available technique. Is that view shared by both rulers? Do they, not as an effort obligation but as a result commitment, want to take it upon themselves to realize that? And if that is achieved, what time limit can that be? Mr. Chairman. I have also taken note of the call from a number of provinces. They say that 5G can get in the way of fast internet in a number of cases and wirelessly. I have just said something about my lack of technical knowledge, but if such a problem is detected, I am inclined to ask whether the rulers are willing to consult with those provinces to see how the knot of the fast internet via 5G and on the other hand fixed and wirelessly fast internet can be unlocked. My question to the rulers is: are they prepared to enter into this consultation with the provinces? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u16	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not going to tell you my whole story, because colleagues have already put forward a lot of arguments, which explain why it is crucial that the Netherlands should quickly roll out 5G. That's not least because we're seeing an exponential growth in data traffic. In 2015 we transported a lot of data with each other. That happened recently in one quarter. That exponential growth alone, apart from all new applications, requires a quick roll-out of 5G. I understand the Minister will receive the Northern Group tomorrow at the Catshuis. There are a number of countries that are already working on this, such as Sweden, the Danes and the Norwegians. They're already using the 3.5GHz band. So if you want to hear from them how important, how good and how correct that is, then I would say: talk about it tomorrow. I took note with interest of the six options in the letter. I would like to make a few comments. Are the options in that sense equivalent to each other that there are no geopolitical obstacles, that is what I call just one of those options? For example, we do not want to kick the Americans' ass, so a certain option is really only relevant on paper, because it will never be politically feasible. That's important for the Chamber to know. As soon as you present a choice to the Chamber, I would also like to have an insight into the argument that the other options should not be pursued and what the costs may be, including the security position. Because we need to know whether the choice is also a good one and we should not be sent home with a 'TINA': there is no alternative. I hope the Minister and the Secretary of State will promise that we will get all that information. Then there is the written reply of the State Secretary in the written consultation on the Telecom Council. We had already asked questions there about timing. When will there be a ruling on Burum? How does that fit in the route to the auctions? Is there any clarity about 3.5 GHz when the companies have to decide on the bids they are going to make at the auctions? The Secretary of State says I'm aiming for it. I find that worrying. Striving is always beautiful, of course, but that auction will be a disaster if there is no guarantee that that clarity is there. If that clarity is not there, the companies cannot make a good choice about what investments they want to make and we really run an insurmountable risk with the roll-out of 5G. So I would like to hear that as a Chamber we are guaranteed that this clarity is there. If that clarity is not yet there, then the auction should be postponed slightly. Perhaps existing contracts should then be extended slightly, because it cannot be that we are only going to auction some of the frequencies when there is no clarity. This is really going to cost hundreds of millions of dollars in investments, which are not being spent in the Netherlands but are going to be invested elsewhere. We can't take that chance with each other. I think these are the most important points I wanted to make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u18	Very good. Mr Graus of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is typically a positive #MeToo debate, I think, because who is against it? I do not believe that there is one MP against fast internet or quick roll-out. My group is not either; we are in favour of fast internet access and rapid roll-out, indeed in the outlying areas. I would like to quote Mr Joop Atsma of the CDA, a colleague when I was sworn in in October 2006. That was almost 12 years ago. Joop Atsma was in the field with us then, in the PVV class, in front of Mr. Wilders. He's always been hard on a quick rollout in the outskirts, so that honor is due to him. He was always a real forerunner in that. We would also like to support this, so we would also like to have a response to the question of how the roll-out is going to look in the outskirts. We believe that the auction and operation of the 5G network should never be at the expense of state security. That's why the Secretary of Defense has moved in, I think. I'd like to get a reaction to this. How was that secured? I have no idea, and that is a good thing, because we do not need to know everything about state security. The Minister may be able to answer how all this can be secured, what is possible to do and what we as a Chamber can do about it. This is for me to watch coffee. We want the vital infrastructure to remain entirely in the hands of the Dutch State. That's gonna be hard. These are typical things that I say on behalf of my group: this must really be done by state-owned companies. If necessary, if there is no other way, we should only cooperate with Dutch suppliers. Is this secure enough, too? I would have liked to know more about that, too. Who's involved in all this? That has all to do with safety. What's the downside of the shiny 5G medal? Mr. Paternotte, who I see at the interrupting microphone, probably has a better view of that than I do. So bring it on, Mr. Paternotte!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u20	Mr Graus referred to state-owned companies and might in fact say that the entire Burum ground-satellite station must be in government hands. Of course, it is now partly the intelligence services, but in part it is also Inmarsat, which used to be a state-owned company but which is not now. It now provides services to countless airlines around the world, does satellite communications for shipping and is extremely successful, while it is shared with intelligence services. It can be done often. Is that state property in vital infrastructure now an end in itself for the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u21	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u22	Or, as we now see in Burum, can it actually go very well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u23	No, it's true. The SP was always the only one who supported us in that. This also applies to energy companies, which provide primary necessities of life, heat and energy, and health care companies, such as emergency services, and you name it all. We are very much in favour of this being and remains in the hands of the State. That goes for this too. Everything related to state security must be secured and maintained in state hands. That is what I am saying on behalf of my group. This only gets the support of the SP, because the other groups have never supported us in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u24	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u25	I note that it is an end in itself for Mr Graus. The same satellites are used by the services, but also by private companies selling products all over the world, without a good wall between them in the data. So as far as we are concerned, you have to look at what is really necessary to protect, and not say: it is important, so it has to become vital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u26	We are of the opinion that, fortunately, a lot of millions of people with me and my group are saying that we should simply leave and keep certain vital infrastructure and companies in government hands. That's why I fought so hard to let energy companies stay in their own hands, because before you know it, they're going to be sold to other countries, which you really don't want. You have to keep it real and guarantee it for the people, for our people and our homeland. We believe that such companies should really be in government hands, especially when it comes to security. I'm glad someone thinks otherwise, but we'll see what comes out soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u27	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u28	What's the downside of that shiny 5G medal? That's where I left off. Of course, it opens many doors, but often without knowing exactly what is behind it, even when it comes to public health. Some experts say it can be harmful. This also applies to 3G and 4G. I think 4G could be a little bit more harmful than 3G. Can the rulers who feel called to do so, I assume, say something about it in this case by the State Secretary? Has this also been discussed with the Ministry of Health? What are the consequences of this? I am referring to the consequences that we cannot see now. Cars, drones, operations, security; anything can be remotely controlled. Especially what happens to those drones and so is worrying. Who's guarding state security and how's that going? I also ask this question about the safety of consumers and businesses. What will be done to prevent abuse? In most cases, abusers are already ahead of us, but we will also have to take prevention into account. I would like to know what preventive measures have been taken to prevent certain cases. Finally, Mr President. I've already talked about public health. There will be a referral to the Ministry of Health shortly. That's usually the way it is. But I assume that the Secretary of State responsible can say something about it, because she is also a shepherd of the sheep. I'd have liked to have had a reaction to it anyway. I don't want to be sent from the locker to the wall. Have a good night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u29	Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u30	Thank you, Mr President. 5G is an extremely high-speed technology, allowing for truly innovative steps. I mention, for example, the possibility of self-driving vehicles. 5G makes it possible to make a real-time connection via cameras with five buses at the same time to a power station elsewhere, where irregularities can be dealt with. In the event of an accident or a robbery, the rapid response time of the system ensures that the van is rerouted in good time. Or take the paramedics. What if a patient has burns? Through real-time contact through sharp and reliable transmitted video images with hospital specialists, the patient can quickly be provided with on-site expertise. This can be done via a smart camera in augmented reality glasses, which the paramedics are sending footage of the wounds. The CDA is therefore strongly in favour of a rapid roll-out of 5G throughout the Netherlands, especially since the CDA, in addition to promoting innovative solutions, would like to remain among the frontrunners in infrastructure and ICT networks. Of course, this must not be at the expense of our security. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the problem of the satellite ground station in Burum, which may be blocking a rapid roll-out. Let me be clear: the CDA believes that the satellite station is carrying out very important work in the field of national security intelligence. It is also important not to underestimate this importance as a Chamber. The CDA therefore likes to look for solutions, in which these activities can also continue to be carried out. We are pleased to see that the cabinet is on schedule with the implementation of the Van den Berg/Graus motion by informing the Chamber for the summer about the solutions for making the 3.5GHz band available for mobile communications nationwide and to make a decision on the future of this band this year. Does the cabinet have any estimate of which of the six scenarios or combinations of these have the greatest chance of solving the problem? Can the cabinet indicate whether all the solutions mentioned are aimed at the roll-out of 5G throughout the Netherlands, so also above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line? What part of the 3.5GHz band is now used by Defense and other agencies? Is it possible to free up parts of this? What can be learned from other countries? Is the Netherlands the only country involved in this? Is it true that the roll-out of 5G in Germany also causes interference with the neighbours and, if so, how is this resolved and are there any discussions with Germany? Mr. Chairman. We understand that at the moment the 3.5GHz band is also used for the so-called "fixed wireless internet" to quickly realize internet in outlying areas, such as Zeeland and Flevoland. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the current permits are handled? Does the Secretary of State expect some of the 3.5GHz band to remain available, possibly temporarily, for fixed wireless internet at the new auction or could the wireless internet be continued on a different frequency? Finally, we would very much like to know from the Secretary of State how the various auctions are going to be tendered and how the Chamber is going to be involved, what we as CDA consider to be extremely important in view of previous auctions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. In a society that is rapidly digitising, it is crucial that we allow Internet speed and capacity to grow with people's demand. Internet is becoming a utility, a necessary provision in our daily lives, as is electricity, for example. This is not only for us, people, so, but also for business, SMEs. The importance of keeping our utilities available and affordable for everyone is evident. All experts seem to agree that the growth of mobile Internet use can only be enhanced by the roll-out of 5G and that the 3.5GHz band exemption is necessary for a proper roll-out of 5G. At the same time, this frequency is also important for our security services and our national security. Several parties have already drawn attention to this. I look forward to hearing the answers of the rulers. I am also pleased that the Secretary of Defense is here to answer that question. In her recent letter, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy writes a number of scenarios for how we can roll out 5G in a responsible way, without malfunctions. TNO is going to investigate it in the coming period. I am curious about the results and hope that in the autumn we will be able to discuss, for example, the auctions, for which various parties have also asked for attention. There is no doubt that we need to invest in the North on the left or right in order to improve the availability of the Internet everywhere, including in the regions. Will the Secretary of State also investigate other possibilities or is the full commitment also in the North at 5G? In my opinion, a truly Chamber-wide majority is in favour of rolling out 5G anywhere in the Netherlands, so one of these options must be feasible to the left or right. Or is there also a situation in which that 3.5GHz band is not available? Mr. Chairman. The emergence of fast and widespread internet as a utility has many advantages, but there are also concerns. The director of the Rathenau Institute said: in order to prevent us opening the gates to a society that threatens to become a digital Wild West, we must first have our moral and legal frameworks in order. In addition to the 3.5GHz and 5G bands and all such technical matters, the State Secretary is working on a national digitisation strategy. That's about pretty much everything 5G would make possible. But it is crucial that we also have our legal and moral frameworks in place before we can make all these developments possible with 5G. My question to the Secretary of State is: what is the state of play on this strategy and when can we receive it? It seems important to me that when we talk about the framework conditions of the Internet, we should also talk about our legal and moral framework conditions in order to be able to assess all the developments that will make 5G possible. Mr. Chairman. Although we are talking today specifically about only one aspect of our digital infrastructure, namely mobile internet, it is necessary to bear in mind the whole issue. Where we first had to deal with different types of signals with each one's own infrastructure and each one's own application, think of telephone and telephone lines, think of television and TV cables, think of radio and radio frequencies, we are increasingly dealing with one kind of signal, namely zeros and ones. Radios, televisions, phones and all other devices digitalize and no longer need a specific signal, but all work with the Internet. However, we still treat our TV cables, telephone lines and mobile cell towers as separate things, as separate infrastructure, while we are increasingly dealing with one digital infrastructure. I have spoken to several telecom companies in recent weeks, both large companies and SMEs. They all seem to agree. The colour of the cable that comes into your house makes less and less difference, they say. In the long term, we will go to the situation where the various elements of our digital infrastructure need to work together more closely and directed, because they all provide one service, and that is the Internet. People don't care how they access their Internet anymore, as long as they're connected. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, in the long term, people will not have to notice how they access their Internet, whether it is via 5G, Wi-Fi or cable, and what cable, but that we will simply ensure that everyone in the Netherlands has a decent internet, regardless of what infrastructure is used for this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u33	Thank you. One more question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u34	Mr Graus referred to the SP as a loyal ally in the commitment to vital infrastructure. Do you agree that Immarsat, which offers satellite interception services, should be nationalized?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u35	Let me see if I understand the question of D66. So it's about the company that's established in Burum and whether it should be nationalized? I think that company not only works for the Netherlands now, but also provides international services. But in general, I can say, and that is also my plea when we are talking about digital infrastructure, that we have to look at whether there is a market at all. On the one hand, you have the national security aspect. So in order to protect our national security, we need to see if that can be done properly if it is also exploited by companies. On the other hand, we must also continue to look at whether there is a market at all. That's not often the case. In my view, this would allow us to look more and more at whether the government would not be able to manage it. And frankly, I do not know whether there is a healthy market functioning in satellite interception or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u36	I have a question about the end of Mr Alkaya's speech. I understand that this integration is continuing. I also understand that it is nice for the consumer if it doesn't matter at all how it gets there, as long as you have a fantastic internet with the highest speed and the lowest delay. But there's a price tag on it, because someone made sure of it. When it comes to large commercial investments, and this is what we are talking about when we roll out 5G, do I have to conclude from your story that you actually think that this should be public investment and that it will all be made available to the consumer free of charge, or that consumers in the Netherlands are all going to pay one rate for the same service? I don't quite understand what you're getting at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u37	Nothing's free. Even if there are private companies that make the investments, people pay for it. We have recently seen that KPN and VodafoneZiggo, precisely because they invest in infrastructure at least, that's what they indicate. That's what they've been doing for the past year. We saw that the price of an internet subscription in a number of years, I believe four or five years, has increased by about €10. Whether that is because of investment in infrastructure or not, the price increases are a fact. One might wonder why, if the market is not functioning properly in terms of infrastructure management, we would allow these companies to make millions of profits and then raise prices, and whether we would not be able to do better ourselves in the long run. We have privatized parts of our infrastructure, so we need to consider whether the various parts of that infrastructure can still be managed optimally by private parties in the long term, and whether the competition that entails still outweighs the price increases that people face.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u38	Thank you. They don't have a second question anymore, do they? They were stupidly beaten after your college! Mr Stoffer of the SGP is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u39	You already had your 5G network on, I understand. Mr. Chairman. Until a few weeks ago, I was always in the car, but I've been on the train a lot since a few weeks. From time to time, I'm annoyed that I can't be easily reached. So that 4G is going to be 5G is actually important. On the other hand, relativizing, I think at some point, when I've been sitting for a few minutes and it's all not working: I'm gonna put it aside and just take a look at the people or think a little bit. So sometimes no internet is nice. However, the telecoms sector is calling for a quick roll-out of 5G via the 3.5GHz frequency band. That's perfectly understandable. I just indicated that you always want to be reachable everywhere. Sometimes it's better not, but you still want it. So that mobile communication is very important. One of the things that is involved here is the advance of the smart energy grid. If you are sitting in the Chamber during a long debate and you see that the weather is nice, then you should be able to turn on the washing machine at home, because then you also make the most use of natural energy sources. In this respect, it also has many benefits for the climate if this works well. But then we have to make sure that the mobile network is not suddenly completely overloaded. That is why it is important that you both work on that 5G network on the 3.5GHz frequency band, so that at the end of the year we have a really good solution direction. An important bottleneck, which I think has already been mentioned by several people, I unfortunately came in halfway through the debate; excuse for this is the bugging station of the intelligence services in Burum. During the round table it was indicated that this 3.5GHz frequency band could already be used for 5G under the Amsterdam-Zwolle line. We too would like to know how the rulers look at this. Then the point I really came here for: I would also like to draw attention to the position of Internet users in the outside world. Glass fibre is expensive and therefore not available in a large part of the outside area and also not available in the near future. In several provinces, fast and stable broadband internet has now been made available via the ether. That's what happens on that 3.5GHz frequency band. In the outskirts, that's an outcome. I am thinking, for example, of agricultural entrepreneurs, who have to pass on a lot of data to the public authorities every year, but also of companies that try to set up a business in empty agricultural buildings and that just needs it very much. Mandatory digital. Through the Internet connections that are now in many of these areas, this is very often not possible, because it is often out. I would very much like the use of that 3.5GHz frequency band for 5G to leave sufficient space to facilitate broadband internet specifically for the target group I just named. For the outside area up to a quarter of the available frequency space is required and sufficient remains. In the long term, 5G might also provide the outside area with sufficient coverage, but that is only the demand in the short term because more antenna points and so on are needed for the roll-out of 5G. As far as we're concerned, we're not throwing away old shoes until the new ones prove themselves at this point. Finally. Scientists also have questions about the effects of mobile telecommunications, wireless internet and the associated radiation on health. The Health Council notes that links cannot be demonstrated but cannot be ruled out either. He advises to keep the exposure as low as possible and to continue to investigate the effects. The radiation level of 5G is another blow higher than that of the existing networks. Does the Cabinet take this with it and also direct it to more independent research in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u40	I'm gonna suspend until 6:45 and then we're gonna listen to the answers from the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u41	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking here today about fixed and mobile networks, but above all about mobile networks. I think it is good to note that the Netherlands scores very well compared to other countries. Mobile networks in the Netherlands offer almost entirely 4G coverage and an estimated 97% of Dutch households have access to a fast fixed internet connection. In recent years, we have seen the roll-out of 4G technology. That has been a huge success. All four mobile networks are among the absolute top, not only of the European Union, but of the whole world. And now 5G is at the door again. The industry hopes to have the first fully-fledged 5G standard later this year, which can meet the requirements of new applications for mobile networks. I think it is good to stress here too that 5G is the technology that is going to use fast internet bands, because when you get into that discussion, it gets mixed up. Connectivity, connectivity takes shape in the interplay between telecom companies, ICT and Internet companies and end users. In the Netherlands, all kinds of initiatives flourish. It is important that experience is gained in concrete experiments and pilots and that it becomes clear what does not work in practice and what does not work in practice. The challenge here is to scale these successful experiments up to a scale on which an interesting earning model can arise. As you may have seen, I have also been active on this dossier over the past few weeks. I've been visiting Groningen, where I've seen fantastic 5G applications. Think of remote care, where in the ambulance there is already contact with the hospital to see what's going on. Think of self-driving public transport. Think of the actual current collection of data on the condition of fields, with which a farmer's son has found a solution to a specific problem, namely the varying condition of the various fields. Yesterday I was in the Johan Cruijff ArenA "It makes me feel good to call him "Joan Cruijff ArenA" where in the run-up to the European Championships in 2020 a pilot runs with 5G. With the help of 5G technology, we can better deal with the huge influx of visitors in that area, all of whom want to be connected to the Internet. That's why we can't sit back. We also want to maintain our strong position in the future. It is important that the telecoms market invests and innovates continuously and that supply and demand match. We see the demand for digital connectivity constantly increasing. Digital connectivity is becoming increasingly important for participation in society. The market invests in the networks to meet growing demand. If the public authorities continue to create the right framework conditions, the market will continue to invest in telecom infrastructure. As I informed the Chamber earlier, including in my letter of 12 February and during the most recent VAO Telecom, I will send her an action plan of connectivity for the summer. This plan will address the different framework conditions for ensuring good digital connectivity. For this plan I have had several investigations carried out and I have spoken with various stakeholders. Digital connectivity involves, among other things, the availability of sufficient frequency, the tyres. In this context, I have recently sent two letters to your Chamber: the letter on the planned auction moments in response to the Weverling motion and the letter specifically on the 3.5GHz band in response to the Van den Berg motion. One of the spokesmen, I think, was that Mr Weverling asked if there was any coordination. Of course, we all have our different responsibilities. I am sitting here today with the Secretary of Defense, or I am standing here today and sitting next to me is the Secretary of Defense, but the Secretary of State is, of course, responsible for the AIVD. So there are certainly those different responsibilities, but I feel very responsible for the economic opportunities of fast internet. So I also asked my fellow Members to sit down in a government meeting at some point in order to get a good idea of what should happen to that satellite station, that reception station in Burum. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech on the planned auction of the so-called multi-bands, the 700-, 1400- and 2100MHz frequency bands, and the questions from the Chamber. Then I will deal with the 3.5GHz-band and the questions about it. Then I will answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u43	Do I hear you say that you are going to coordinate and feel responsible, or do you consult with your fellow executives and do just the economic aspect? I have confidence in all three leaders who are concerned about this, but it is my concern that we do not send each other from the cabinet to the wall at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u44	No, the latter is absolutely not the case, but of course every ruler in a cabinet has specific responsibilities. But I'm definitely trying to step in here with each other. That worked out fine and the cooperation is fantastic in that respect. I have just been asked whether, as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, I think it is the most important thing that economic opportunities are taken away. My answer was then and is also here that the cabinet speaks with one voice. This is a Secretary of State for Economic Affairs who also sees the interests of national security. There is the Minister of Defence, who also sees the interests of economic opportunities. But, of course, you can address me. I will therefore try to be in contact with colleagues in advance so that I do not have to send you from a locker to the wall, because that does not help this discussion, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then the multi-band auction: the 700-, 1400- and 2100MHz-bands. We are on the verge of auctioning those tapes, which sooner or later help to roll out the 5G technology. In doing so, I will give substance to European decisions to make the 700 and 3.5 bands available. I want to implement this as well as possible in the interests of this rapid and smooth roll-out. This, of course, as has just been said, taking into account the interests of national security. The upcoming auction therefore concerns the multi-band auction. It is planned for the end of 2019, so that these frequencies can be put into operation by 2020. The 700-band will be available from 1 January 2020, which has to do with ongoing permits. The 1400-band is already available and the 2100-band is available from 1 January 2021. As I said, this has to do with existing use. The preparation of the auction is being worked hard, but the planning is under pressure. I will say a little more about this later, but you also found this in the letter of 25 May. The following frequency bands, including the 3,5 GHz and the 26 GHz, are visible after the multi-band auction. I am working on a policy framework for the sharing of frequencies: the Note Mobile Communication. This ensures predictability of policies and thus investment security. In that note, I will also specifically address the conditions that I intend to set for the next auction of the multiband. In addition, I will give as much clarity as possible about the 3.5-band. At each frequency auction I ask the ACM for advice on possible measures in the auction to ensure competition, because competition in this market has led to innovation and low prices for Dutch consumers. However, to advise on this, the ACM needs to know what the market looks like. How many parties are active? How strong are they against each other? How many frequencies do they need? All this is important in order to be able to advise what the market needs and what role a frequency auction plays in it. In view of the forthcoming auction of these multi-bands, the announced acquisition of Tele2 by T-Mobile has made it unclear what the market will look like. Then you also need to know whether special measures are needed in this upcoming auction. This again depends on how the European Commission looks at this merger. So we depend on the timetable of the European Commission. Once the ACM has given its advice, the Note Mobile Communication can be completed. This opinion comes after the European Commission has decided on the merger. This makes me highly dependent on the timing of the European Commission's decision for planning. If that assessment is known by the end of this year, and the ACM will come up with the advice quickly afterwards, an auction in the most optimistic scenario will be feasible by the end of 2019. The auction is very urgent for me, but you must also be realistic. I do not want to make promises which I am already concerned about whether I can keep them, and which at least depend on other organs to do so. That is why I say immediately that it is possible a few months later, so at the beginning of 2020. The preparation for the auction of the 3.5GHz band follows the multiband auction. The decision on the 3.5GHz band is planned for the end of 2018. So I can clarify when that auction will take place by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u45	There is a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u46	Let me get this straight. If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says: the commitment is to get as much clarity as possible about 3.5 GHz before the auction of the multiband takes place, but the auction of the multiband may, if a number of things run counter, shift from the end of 2019 to the first quarter of 2020. But what I haven't heard yet is a guarantee that that clarity about the 3.5 GHz will actually be there before we auction the multiband. I am asking for this guarantee because I think it is more important that we have assured the investment in 5G than that we have been worked out to the very last detail in terms of market operation, because that can always be stretched endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u47	Endless stretching is the last thing we want here. That is not the case. At the same time, you are familiar with the policy on guarantees. They can't be given. The only thing I can give you is that at the end of this year there will be clarity about the results of the investigations into the use of the 3.5GHz band above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line. If we have that clarity, we can also clarify when that band is going to be auctioned. Everything is intended to make that clear by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u48	I think you can only give guarantees to a vacuum cleaner or something; at least weird things have been said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u49	I didn't mean to say it, but it's happening anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u50	But in this case, it's not a product. It's a policy responsibility you have. You are talking both about the timing of the auction and about providing clarity as to whether that band will become available, yes or no. You have both things in hand. You can also determine whether they will run together in time, yes or no. I can get a guarantee on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u51	Combining both auctions is not something you should pursue in advance. Imagine that one of the options to make the 3.5GHz band available needs a little more time. Then you would unnecessarily delay the multiband auction, and then there are frequencies that will not be available. That is why I say here that the multi-band auction depends on the assessment of the proposed merger. That is necessary again because you have to visualize the market. As it now stands, the European Commission's opinion comes at the end of 2018. It's really not like we're gonna sit back and wait for that judgment to come. Anything we can already prepare, we don't leave. Should that judgment come later, the multi-band auction may be at the beginning of 2020. But if I inform the Chamber at the end of this year about the solution direction of the satellite station in Burum, we will also inform you about what that means for the proposed auction of the 3.5GHz band.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u52	Mr. Van der Lee, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u53	To avoid a misunderstanding: I do not advocate merging both auctions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u54	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u55	... but to be clear about the availability of 3.5 GHz for the next auction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u56	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u57	I would like to endorse what Mr Van der Lee says: auctioning together is not necessary, but I would like to clarify the various bands at the front. If we are going to auction the 3.5 GHz, does that mean that you have a solution to the underlying contracts that apparently remain until 2026? Didn't you think of something for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u58	There are permits on the different tires. I have just outlined this to you in relation to the multi-bands. The same goes for the 3.5GHz-band. Of course, you can talk to the different users, but you can't just withdraw a once-forgiven permit. So that's what you have to include in the final picture of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u59	So this is perhaps a negotiating tactic now. But do you actually leave it hanging over the market that it could take up to 2026 before that 3.5 GHz becomes available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u60	It's got permits on it. Of course, you can't just withdraw a permit once. Of course, the issue of future use has been considered in the granting of these licences. But you're gonna have to look at that by license.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u61	I have two brief questions. It's not interesting to buy one part if you don't have any clarity about the other part yet. I would like to add my voice to the previous questions put by my fellow Members. I would also like to comment on the point made by the Secretary of State. As far as those permits are concerned, we have to look at it; you can also, of course, give compensation. But it is of course extremely important that for those auctions it is absolutely clear what is on sale at that time and what might be on offer two years later. Can the Secretary of State clarify that? The second question is: if there is this Note Digital Connectivity, which apparently incorporates the advice of the ACM, will the Chamber be involved in the organisation of the auction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u62	This concerns the Note Mobile Communications. It includes what the auction is going to look like. This will also clarify the current use of the different tyres and their consequences. Is the Chamber involved in this? Yes. The Note Mobile Communication and the auction arrangement will also be shared with your Chamber, so that the Chamber can also decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u63	Okay. It doesn't matter if you're going to ask for much or little money and what the conditions are for investing. This means that the Chamber can still fully discuss with the Secretary of State how the auction is organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u64	That's correct. That's in the Note Mobile Communications. He's coming to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u65	In my view, it is clear from the words of the Secretary of State that before the multi-band auction takes place, it is clear when the 3.5GHz band can be auctioned and which parts of it will become available when exactly. This is very important for all providers who may want to sign up for the auction. I see the Secretary of State nodding. In any case, that is the case. My concern is still at the pace. It was said that it could be at the beginning of 2020. We know that next year Germany will auction parts of the 3.5GHz band. Ireland has already auctioned parts of it. The Netherlands would then come up with the multiband auctions at all later on. What's the pace after the multi-band auctions? According to the Secretary of State, how much time could there be between that auction moment and that of the 3.5 GHz band?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u66	This also depends on what technical solutions we adopt with each other. As Secretary of State for Economic Affairs responsible for this subject, I am incredibly aware of the importance of this band for the roll-out of the various 5G techniques. So everything will be done to speed up that. But you will have to wait and see how the proposed merger is assessed in the case of multi-bands. And for the 3.5GHz band we are dealing with finding a solution to the situation in Burum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u67	Then it must be a purely technical question. Indeed, after the European Commission has done so, the ACM has to make a decision on the proposed merger of Tele2 and T-Mobile. That's what we expect at the end of the year. It seems to me that until then all the other preparations for the auction, which are more on the technical side, can simply be dealt with and everything else is being done. What makes it so that after that it would take another year for the auction to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u68	As I mentioned earlier in my speech in response to Mr Weverling's comments, or no, I think it was Mr Van der Lee's speech at the end of this year, when we tell you which directions we are going to choose and work out, we will also inform you about the intended path of auctioning the 3.5GHz band. So I will also indicate when that will happen. I'm asking you to wait for that. Mr President, I come to a number of questions about the multi-band auction, but perhaps they have already been answered in the interruptions. At least that applies to this question here. Then I have a question here about the coverage of the Internet in outlying areas. How do I feel about that? My predecessor already announced in July 2017 that he would like to make a warrant for the auction of the multi-bands. I still intend to. Where you live in the Netherlands shouldn't make a difference when it comes to whether you can also use fast internet. This requirement should therefore improve the quality of mobile networks in the off-site area. What will the roll-out look like in the outskirts, Mr Graus asked. As mentioned above, we are going to make a requirement for coverage to raise mobile broadband in the outer area to a higher level. In the digital connectivity action plan that I'm sending to the Chamber for the summer, you'll find more about it. I have already answered this question in an interruption. Finally, on this subject, Mr Alkaya's question is whether I agree with him that in future it will no longer matter to consumers how they access their Internet. He also said that everyone should be connected to it. Yeah, I recognize the development he's sketching. Indeed, the different infrastructures are becoming increasingly similar and are increasingly able to provide the same services. Then I get to the 3.5GHz band. In the Netherlands, the 3.5GHz band is currently only available for mobile communications. This frequency band is used by the intelligence services to collect information. That's been remembered a number of times. Above the line Amsterdam-Zwolle this band can therefore not be used at the moment. Like your Chamber, I see the importance of that 3.5-band for the 5G technologies. As I have said, I am working with my colleagues in the Defence Department and the State Department to find ways of resolving these problems. In the letter of 25 May, you saw the different directions of solution. Before the end of the year, we would like to inform you about this. Several studies are being carried out for decision-making purposes. TNO is therefore investigating the different solutions. This is done to make a good assessment of the effect of the roll-out of 5G on the satellite interception in Burum. This research will also involve mobile telecom providers. In addition, the Telecom Agency is currently examining the possibility of recasting existing licences and alternative frequencies for local business-specific applications. We were just talking about that in the interrupting debate. The 3.5GHz band is widely used on a regional and local scale. I was in the container transfer yesterday at the port of Rotterdam. Very impressive, Mr. Chairman! Authorisations in the 3,5-band have different durations up to 2022 and 2026. KWINK is also investigating the current use of and future need for frequency space in the 3.5-band. These are investigations that have been brought forward. This would initially be done by 2020, but we have all brought it forward because of the great importance. Then I come to a number of questions that have been asked by the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u69	First, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u70	I have a question about the research that TNO is going to do, actually more specifically about what methodology is going to be used. Are we looking at the activities on the 3.5GHz band south of the Amsterdam-Zwolle line or is it wise, for example, to continue that 5G experiment in Groningen on the 3.5 GHz so that you have current measurement data on the impact of using 3.5 GHz, even above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u71	The frequency policy applies to the conduct of experiments. There's a fault framework in there. Experiments must therefore be judged by the interference on satellite interception. It has previously been established that the experiment 5Groningen interferes with that band.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u72	I think that's exactly where the questions lie. How much does it bother you? How serious is that, anyway? Who evaluates that besides TNO and Defense? Do we get an insight into this as a Chamber? This is relevant to the six options that lie ahead. 'Cause if that interference's really big, some options fall off, I guess. Because then you can't combine it. Research has already been done. That is not yet transparent and public. Is that gonna be an audience? I have a lot of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u73	I can imagine. I just find it difficult to say that this investigation is going to be public, because there are connections to satellite interception by our security services. I can see if that is a problem here. Then you will understand, Mr President, that I am assuming that we do not make that information available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u74	We have previously tabled a motion with Mr Weverling asking for the experiment in Groningen to be given space and to do everything in our power to make it possible, even if it was because the experiment was the result of compensation for earthquake damage in the earthquake area. TNO says it's complicated. It's about sharing the radio frequency. It depends on the criteria. It depends on the facts. TNO doesn't say it's impossible. Therefore, my question is whether it would be a good thing if you promised that everything would be done to see if the experiment could be applied, if necessary on a certain scale. Perhaps, as Mr Weverling suggested, it could be very useful to work out the directions for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u75	Thank you for that question, too. The motion tabled in the previous debate on this subject, which was then held, spoke in general about adjusting the frequency policy to allow the 5Groningen experiment to pass. That was exactly the jumping point. The frequency policy contains a faulty framework. Each experiment submitted shall take a close look at the fault framework. Sometimes it can, sometimes it can't. That is why it is good to say the following to Mr Paternotte. If people think that experiments are possible above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line, they are very invited to submit them. But the interference framework does apply, precisely to prevent interference with satellite interception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u76	5Groningen has already flattened the door to the Telecom Agency to submit exactly those applications to which the Secretary of State refers now, only without any justification as to why it is not possible. In the information we have also received from you, TNO does not say that it is impossible, but that it is complicated. Then my question is: can it be investigated whether it is really impossible to do so, then it will of course stop at.... or whether sharing the radio frequency under certain criteria and depending on the facts is possible, as TNO says? Of course, this is a very small-scale experiment, but it is an important technical experiment, also for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u77	Sure. It's just a little difficult to have hearsay conversations here on technical issues. Actually, I'd like to avoid that. There is a frequency policy. That frequency policy has a faulty framework. We have to stick to that, but if people think there are experiments that can, they are very invited to step forward with it. Then we can look at what is and is not possible, from the point of view of the economic opportunities of 5G technology, but also, of course, in conjunction with national security interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u78	I do object to Hearsay's suggestion, because I was simply quoting from what TNO replied to the question of whether it is technically possible to have 5G and Defense co-exist on the 3.5GHz band. It then indicates that the coexistence of radio technology is complicated, but that it is not unthinkable depending on the criteria and the facts. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to look again specifically at the experiment 5Groningen, also because of our commitments in the context of earthquake damage. I find it disappointing that the answer is that the Secretary of State does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u79	That's not what I'm saying. I say that the Telecom Agency looked at these experiments, set them against the fault framework and came to the conclusion that they resulted in unacceptable interference with satellite reception. That's what I'm saying. In the letter you received, we mention six investigations. One of these studies is a geographical exclusion zone and License Shared Access, or smart use of technology that might allow combinations. These are matters that are being investigated at the moment, in order to determine for the future whether there can be shared use in the province of Groningen. So I understand the impatience, but we're just investigating this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u80	I agree with what my digital liberal friend says, but how does it relate to what is happening in Germany? Experiments are possible, which may have to fit within the frameworks, but of course it does not stop at national borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u81	That's right. I was just having an interrupting debate on whether experiments are needed at the moment. This is covered by the fault framework, where satellite reception in Burum is important. Besides, you have the future that we're looking at together. The research we're doing is exactly what we're doing. Even if we were to say that the 3.5-band in Groningen really remains only for the AIVD and STIVD, it is not at all obvious that there is no interference from Germany. I would just like to point out that this is technically quite complex. But we see with each other the importance of 5G technology, for all the reasons that have been mentioned. We see the importance of the 3.5-band. So we are looking at how we can shape and content that for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u82	You call on the market to come up with applications for experiments. Is the balancing framework "no, unless" or "yes, if"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u83	These are always downsides to me from the same medal. I can't say otherwise. If anyone comes up with an idea, technical research will look into what that means. At the moment, however, the frequency policy and the fault framework as we have, and the importance of satellite reception for national security, apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u84	The Secretary of State is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked me about the investigation into a screen around Burum and what has happened since then. That's almost a plea for a wall, but that's not how I understood it. The investigation of the screen in Burum has taken a long time. This investigation was completed at the end of 2016. At that time there was no reason to extend the investigation into the Burum satellite ground station. The current 3.5-band issuance policy announced that an evaluation of current use would take place in 2020. As I said, we have brought it forward. The starting point for further searching for a solution for Burum was at the end of 2017, when the European Council adopted a Roadmap 5G, which included the objective of achieving technical harmonisation of the 3.5-band, among other things, by 2019. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Moorlag and Mrs Van den Berg: can we get in the way of each other fixed and wireless and do the leaders want to talk to the provinces about this? The answer is yes. I have research conducted into the future needs of current users and potential other parties in relation to the 3.5-band, and how these needs can be considered. The need of provinces for fixed and wireless internet is absolutely taken into account. I have therefore asked the Bureau of Investigation to ask the provinces about their needs as well. As far as I am concerned, the most complicated question in this debate is Mr Moorlag's question. As far as I'm concerned, he won the prize today. He asked: what is meant by geographical exclusion zone and Licensed Shared Access? As I always say, I'm a simple lawyer and administrative expert, but I'm gonna do my best. A geographical exclusion zone is an area in which the tyre or part of it cannot be used for more mobile communications. Licensed Shared Access, LSA, means that smart use of technology can keep this area small under normal conditions and only increase it if required by atmospheric conditions. This does not mean that the entire 5G service is no longer possible within that geographical area. 5G uses more frequency bands than the 3.5-band only. Within the 3.5-band there can still be possibilities, but with a more limited capacity and thus a lower capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u86	Yes, Mr Moorlag... I hear the Secretary of State say she hoped you'd be impressed. You also remained impressively quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u87	Yes, I am very impressed, but that geographical exclusion is already an existing situation. You can say that half of the Netherlands is now covered by the geographical exclusion; it simply cannot be done there. My point was: some of the solutions that are described, which are six, are incomplete or suboptimal. What is the perspective for this country, for the inhabitants of this country, on the fast internet via 3.5 GHz via the 5G standard? That's just essential. I have also said in my contribution: it cannot be that, in the event of certain atmospheric disturbances, a doctor no longer has access to the fast internet to diagnose a patient or that a farmer is not able to carry out his precision farming. So my question is: is the Secretary of State prepared to drop the directions for solutions that do not offer a prospect of solving the problem in full?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u88	As I have just said, it is not the case that the entire 5G service is no longer possible within that geographical area. That's not true. Other tyres or other parts can then take over. At the same time, it is sometimes forgotten that we are talking about a physical phenomenon: we are talking about frequencies in the air. Sometimes it just happens that it's different because of certain circumstances. In the past, we have had situations where people complained about accessibility. When you went on the spot to see what was going on, it sometimes turned out to disturb something as simple as a tree party. If you couldn't move, it's possible that there are several options that show one of the other options. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u89	My view is that there will be incomplete or suboptimal solutions. My point was: I think all residents in the Netherlands are entitled to fast internet. That's really gonna be a basic need. The Secretary of State said earlier in the debate: if anything disturbs, it cannot. You can also say something else: there is something that hinders the roll-out of 5G; should you not tackle that problem, should you not remove that obstacle? If you expand a city and stand in the way of a farm, that farm will at some point be expropriated for urban expansion. Shouldn't that be here, too? It's about such a vital need of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u90	The latter, about that farm, is not always like that, because in the past historic inner cities would have been demolished. So fortunately there is still a trade-off. We're talking about 5G technology here. I said at the beginning: occasionally these discussions seem to run a little through each other, as if 5G is completely equal to the 3.5GHz-band. That's not true. Other frequency bands are also available. And as I just mentioned: within the 3.5GHz-band there are still possibilities. With limited power and lower capacity, but there are possibilities. And that's exactly what we're trying to figure out: what the different consequences are. Mr Van der Lee asked me whether, in the final judgment that we are sending to the Chamber at the end of the year, we would also like to give the argument about the options that we do not choose, and whether we would also like to give an insight into the costs, as far as possible of course. The answer to that is yes. Mr Van der Lee and Mr Moorlag asked: are the options similar to each other or are there geopolitical obstacles? The options are not similar but are similar to each other, in the sense that we keep them all seriously under review. Combinations are also possible. I look through my papers and see that a number of issues have already been discussed. Finally, Mr President. Mr Stoffer.... he has just disappeared behind the curtains......................................................................................................................................................................... I know that there is often an employee or a colleague listening in. "Can the Secretary of State guarantee that one quarter of the 3.5GHz band will be reserved for outside broadband?" This is taken into account in KWINK's research into the future need for the 3.5GHz band. This study also explicitly takes into account the current use, including the use in the off-site area. Then I have two other questions, Mr President. Let's see. Mr Graus asked me how we guarantee vital infrastructure. Telecommunications services for consumers are provided by commercial companies such as KPN, VodafoneZiggo, Tele2 and you can name them all. That doesn't mean I don't have an eye for national security. I recently sent a letter to your Chamber announcing the draft law on unwanted control in telecommunications. This will enable the government to assess takeovers of telecommunications companies in the light of national security. Another question about possible harmful effects of 5G. The Health Council advises the government on health issues. The Council states that there is no risk to public health as long as safety standards are applied. These are standards recommended by the European Union to the Member States, which are also used in the Netherlands. The signals from all antennas for mobile communication must now, and later with 5G, comply with these limits. In the consultation of the Digital Connectivity Action Plan, which I am sending to the Chamber before the summer, I indicated that I would consider legally laying down the standards that are currently in force and are being applied. The aim is to provide security for citizens and telecom providers about this regime in the roll-out of 5G and the installation of the many antennas needed. Finally, Mr President. Mr Alkaya asked: is the Secretary of State fully engaged in the Dutch digitisation strategy and what is the state of play? I am working hard on this and the planning is still in place to send it to the Chamber at the end of June. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u91	Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u92	For me, it's nice to have the speaker seat lower. Thank you, Mr President. I learned a lot this afternoon. It is always nice to sit as a minister in a debate where another department is central to the debate. I would like to emphasise the point raised by the Secretary of State. The letters sent in the direction of the Chamber state that there are two interests that we are looking at. I think the Secretary of State was right to say that. Both interests are seen and defended by both departments. That's why it's nice to be here alone. I have also heard a number of things coming from my previous life as IPO chairman. That's always good to see. I'm restricting my response to my area. This is mainly about satellite interception: an indispensable source of information for intelligence services. In recent times, this has been discussed extensively in the Chamber under other legislation. I would like to emphasise the importance in a general sense. The information from satellite interception is crucial to me, especially for the security of our own military and for the success of missions. It concerns, for example, the interception of communication between members of warring parties in and around mission areas, but also the communication between members of terrorist organisations, sending messages from abroad to the Netherlands, can be intercepted. That's what happens in Burum. Satellite interception is also of great importance for the cyber domain, a domain you may also talk about. In any case, I regularly discuss this with the members of the Permanent Defence Commission. We've regularly identified infections and hacks in width with each other lately. It's important to be able to see that, too. When I look at what the cabinet stands for, the importance of 5G is evident. You underlined all that. We want together a solution that does justice to the digital opportunities for development, as explained by the Secretary of State, but also to the protection of national security, which I stand for. To this end, we are investigating a number of solutions, in which we have taken the commitment to inform you about them at the end of the year. We take that seriously. The Secretary of State has already reviewed the various possibilities, so let me leave that for a moment. What I do want to say to you is that I think that was a question from Mr Van der Lee: that we are trying as much as possible to present to you what is possible, publicly and transparently. It is extremely important that we make the trade-offs public as much as possible. What we can do publicly, we will not fail to do publicly. I am now passing by the questions asked to me, starting with Mr Paternotte. The STUDY and the AIVD, but I am responsible for the STUDY, and none of the tests will stop in Groningen. That little debate was just held with the Secretary of State. At present, as explained, until 2023, there is a limitation of the roll-out of 5G networks in the 3.5GHz band above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line. That's just what we've been talking about. This is to prevent interference with satellite communications interception by the STPD and the AIVD. TNO will investigate the impact of the deployment of future 5G networks at the Burum satellite station, as just mentioned by the State Secretary. TNO also looks at what measures can be effective to prevent or reduce interference from the 5G rollout. We will inform you about this. The discussion was just about the Agency Telecom and the round table. I have also looked into what has been said about that. Mr Paternotte just quoted that. An invitation has also been made to submit experimental permits. If an experiment can be set up in which measurements by Agency Telecom show that there is no unacceptable interference on the satellite interception in Burum, then there is room for that. So we're open to it. So it's not like it can't be done. I would like to emphasise once again what the Secretary of State has just said. The same applies to the question: if there is a possibility of sharing the frequency, is there a willingness? There's certainly that willingness, Mr. Paternotte. I also recognise the importance of the roll-out of 5G and digital development opportunities. Otherwise, we wouldn't even have to do the investigation. But every time we have to look at the security aspects. That's what the Secretary of State said. We must not lose sight of them. So together we will always look for solutions. I hope we find it as soon as possible. There were a few more questions from Mr Paternotte. Satellite interception has been old for a while; aren't there newer ways? I'm just translating what I think he said. I can tell you that satellite interception in the debate around the Wiv 2017 has been discussed extensively, also with your Chamber of Commerce is an indispensable source of information. Not for nothing did I just bring that up. This information cannot be obtained in any other way, i.e. not via cable. The satellite interception capacity in Burum dates from after 9/11. It is, I think, good to see that it was really made by us as Dutchmen in the context of counter-terrorism. It's been our decision. It is really necessary to maintain that capacity. Of course, we are looking at the options mentioned in the letter. So we're looking at how we can shape it in another place or in another way, but we can't do without it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u93	The question also focused on what I read in the letter. The Minister states that there may be a decreasing interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u94	That's what I wanted to talk to you about. I now, I think, have answered the first part of your question. I've seen the sequel. You also asked about the basis of the decreasing interest. You asked me to tell you how I took it. At the moment, I do not think there is any decreasing interest. "Absolute interest' means in the letter that it is possible in the long term that only part of the tyre is needed to generate the same yield. So that's possible. This depends on all technological developments and the supply of satellite suppliers. Frequencies separation is one of the directions of solution that is being investigated; this has just been discussed. So you must read what is in the letter about decreasing interest. As far as I'm concerned, it's framed. I think there were two more questions on my property. Mr Weverling said that, in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber, there must be a decision before the end of the year. We are very aware of that. As the Secretary of State also said, the solutions are being taken very seriously. I listened carefully in the first term of the Chamber, but it is impossible to anticipate the results of the inquiry. We don't know what's coming out. After the results of the study, we must reflect on what we have seen. The alternatives can, of course, range from technical solutions that allow coexistence to move some of the satellite ground station in Burum, perhaps even beyond national borders. Those are all options you've seen. Then, of course, you need time to see how quickly you can implement these measures. That's what your question was, I think, aimed at. If we think they make sense, how soon can we implement them? That will depend on the option that comes out. I think it's gonna take a few months or so to get years. What if it's about moving abroad? Then we'll have to talk to countries about that, too. Then there will have to be a very international trajectory left. It's not that simple. So it depends on the option. We will do everything in our power to demonstrate with the commitment we have made, what then is the time range of the different options that have ended. We'll report that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u95	Mr. Chairman. I'm not at all dissatisfied with what you're saying tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u96	With what the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u97	Sorry, Chairman. With what the Minister says about the importance of 5G and the importance of state security. But if I hear you correctly, you have an effort and not so much a result obligation. You do endorse...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u98	The Minister agrees...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u99	Sorry, Chairman. Surely the Minister agrees that a solution must be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u100	Mr. Chairman. I certainly endorse that, but of course I do not know exactly what is coming out of the investigations at the moment. So we will do everything we can, and we will show that as much transparency as possible, but it may be possible to achieve one more quickly than the other. That's what we'll report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u101	The Minister makes it very clear how important satellite interception is for the Netherlands and for the services, but that must be important for our German ally. I find that so complicated to understand. The minister, I believe, lives in Goor himself. The Eemshaven, Emden, is twice closer to Burum than Goor. That is a place that is incredibly close, much closer than most places above the Amsterdam-Zwolle line, and that can cause interference. My question is whether there have been talks and agreements about this, because this is a Dutch security issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u102	Mr Paternotte has seen very well and read that I live in Goor. We have also talked about this in a different setting. That is indeed close to the German border. So I am also well aware that what is happening on the German side will affect satellite interception in Germany and also satellite interception in Burum over the next few years. We are also talking about this much more than I can actually say about it in order to come up with solutions. This applies to the intelligence services, but I am also talking to my colleagues about this. We should not, of course, be in each other's way, because for both of us, in view of my interest, state security or the security of our troops on missions, which is an important argument to me, as you have heard, could be at stake. Those international aspects, you were right to say, should be taken into account in the study of possible directions for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u103	Then I would add that to what the Minister said earlier about the Telecom Agency. Indeed, this receives a lot of requests and they are almost all rejected, because they do not comply with the fault framework and would cause interference. We also know that Germany is going to auction parts of the 3.5GHz band next year and will probably be putting it into operation by 1 January 2020, so we are only a year and a half away from the first failures on a much larger scale. Wouldn't it make more sense, for example, to look together with parties like 5Groningen to see if experiments might be possible if they were set up in such a way that they didn't interfere with that fault framework rather than simply say "do applications" and reject them massively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u104	I indicated that I would find it logical to look at that seriously if that faulty side wasn't attached to it. So I simply indicated that and I think the Secretary of State has said the same thing, but I cannot judge individual cases in this way. I don't think it's up to us to do that here either. I had one more question, and that was Mr Moorlag's question, and the Secretary of State also replied, whether we should have the aim of making 5G available to everyone and whether the directors would share it. I have already said that, of course, I recognise the importance of the roll-out of 5G and of all the digital deployment opportunities attached to it. In a previous life, even with Mr Moorlag, I have looked at the possibilities attached to it. But for me it is the case that we always have to keep those safety aspects in mind. That's why we're talking about that. That is why we are looking very seriously at the possibilities of finding solutions to Burum. That's all it wants to do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u105	I thank the Minister for her reply and also for the importance she underlines of 5G. I would just like to make it very clear that I see the importance of interception very clearly. But where my concern lies, for example, is with the transfer option of satellite dishes. I am impressed by the DOD genius, but that could be a business case for the Defense Department that would simply be too expensive, but which would be very beneficial from the point of view of social costs and benefits, because much less needs to be invested in other digital infrastructure in the area. My question is whether the Minister would like to approach this from the point of view of a social cost-benefit analysis. Put that in a row and then consider whether it is financially justified or not to move it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u106	In my view, the Secretary of State has already indicated that we will also pay attention to the financial aspects. As far as an SME is concerned, we have to weigh these two sides anyway. That's what the Secretary of State and I are doing right now. We'll see how you can make that gear as soon as possible. The Secretary of State has said a lot about that. For our part, we are looking at state security interests. I do not know whether we should necessarily make an SMEA, but I think that we should consider both of these interests. I think it's wise to show you how much it costs. We also need to show this from different options, because that is also one of the points to ultimately weigh up whether it is feasible or not. I have already said to Mr Van der Lee: not everything can be financed by us. Then we'll have to look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u107	Then I would like to consider to both directors that the auction of licences is likely to yield cash. I know that these different flows of money are not of course communicating vessels, but yes, do solutions always have to be subordinate to rules or should a rule be subordinate to a solution? I would like to give that question to both rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u108	A philosophical end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u109	I will never hide behind a rule if we want to find a solution. Mr Moorlag knows that, by the way. We are genuinely looking at it very seriously and will also have to seriously put forward different options.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u110	I would like to continue with the little debate with Mr Paternotte on the subject of experiments. Look, the commercial parties have no insight into the technical specifications of the satellite ground station. Not even in the activities. So it's very difficult for them to set up an experiment that they can estimate with some certainty that it might be possible. By simply saying "we are open to experiments" at some point it is discouraging that everything that is proposed is rejected. Couldn't there be one experiment where there is cooperation in the design of a 3.5-GHz activity above the Amsterdam-Zwolle border during the period when you need to weigh those options? This could provide useful information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u111	In this way, I cannot fully understand the implications of Mr Van der Lee's question, but I would like to ask that question in order, if necessary, to give an answer in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u112	Fine. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? Yes. Then I would like to give the floor as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber to Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u113	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to return briefly to the experiments. We're hearing a lot about the interference regime. We know that applications are being made. They are also rejected by the Telecom Agency. The question is whether we should at least discuss what experiment can be done. It can't be that you invite you to make applications, which then all turn down and leave it at that. Especially since TNO indicates that things are possible, unlike the agency, my question is whether the Ministry of EZK wants to talk about this. Mr President, the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a geographical limitation and user limitation on the use of the 3.5GHz band to protect the interception of satellite communications by the intelligence and security services;]] [[Whereas this will hamper a wide roll-out of 5G on the 3.5GHz band in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the foreign governments with whom the Netherlands has agreed on the exchange of data in order to identify possible solutions for the Sigint function;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber in the fourth quarter of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the roll-out of 5G in the outskirts can contribute to vitality and viability, for example in the areas of mobility (self-driving transport) and remote care;]] [[Whereas the whole of the Netherlands should be able to benefit from the 5G network;]] [[noting that it is currently not interesting for network providers to invest in uneconomic operating sites due to costs;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an investigation into the feasibility and applicability of a financial instrument focusing on the roll-out of 5G in outlying areas where this is not profitable, funded by funds resulting from the frequency auctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Weverling, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-440]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u114	Mr. Chairman. I had asked one more question about the user survey, which has not yet been answered. My question to the Secretary of State is whether it can be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u115	Mr Weverling of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank both directors for the clear endorsement of the challenge; let me put it this way. You agree with the importance. That's nice. It is clear that it is going to be a whole process before there is 5G: the auction of the multiband, clarity over 3.5 GHz, and then also permit-free, so that we do not have to wait until 2026, because that is, of course, unthinkable. A motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the roll-out of the 5G technology plays an important role in ensuring connectivity for all Dutch people;]] [[noting that the 3,5GHz band is necessary for a rapid and effective roll-out of the 5G technique;]] [[noting the need to clarify the date of auction of the 3,5GHz band as soon as possible;]] [[Considering that a solution direction with regard to the Burum ground-satellite station should be chosen by the end of the year 2018,]] [[Calls on the Government to clarify the availability and auction date of the 3.5GHz band by the end of 2018 and to provide an outline of the further process towards the auction taking into account the chosen solution direction for the Burum ground-satellite station,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u117	Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the efforts made by the rulers, but I am concerned about the direction of resolution, because there are some partial or suboptimal solutions to this. It's a bit of a simple equation, but if the goal should be "Moorlag must have a new pair of pants" and six directions are described, including one with a pants with only one leg, then I want to have some comfort that the end product doesn't look like this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government has identified and made a choice of possible ways of resolving the supply of the 3.5GHz band for the fast internet;]] [[whereas some are only partial or sub-optimal solutions;]] [[Whereas fast mobile internet is becoming a basic need and essential for communication, enterprise, education, health care and livingability throughout the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to choose a solution direction, or a combination of more solution directions, which will ensure that 5G internet is quickly available throughout the Netherlands via the 3.5GHz band,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a bit of a problem with the image that I see Mr Moorlag in shorts, but I think I will get over it. Many thanks to both rulers for the answer. I think it has been a very useful debate. I am also positively surprised, perhaps not surprised, but pleased with the positive attitude of the Minister of Defence on this dossier. We were a little concerned from the committee after all. Anyway, I also hope that it will lead to good results, but there is one point I would like to highlight. My motion is somewhat in line with the motion tabled by Mr Weverling. My motion is a little shorter and simpler, but I think it comes down to the same thing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the different frequencies intended for 5G for the telecommunications companies concerned are related and clear in this respect is essential for the strategy and operation of these companies;]] [[Whereas the availability of the 3.5GHz frequency should be clarified as a matter of urgency before the next frequency auction takes place;]] [[Calls on the Government to clarify the availability of the 3,5GHz frequency in the fourth quarter of 2018 and to ensure that this clarity exists before the next frequency auction takes place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall not table any motions because I have signed a motion from Mr Paternotte...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That motion will also be read out shortly. I joined in, so that's why. I won't tell the operative part, because I'll give it to Mr. Stoffer. So now I'm just the tin; duster and tin, huh? But anyway, I'd like to leave it at that for tonight. I do not believe that everything has been answered, because who is really watching over state security and the safety of consumers and businesses? That has been addressed, but not in the way I intended. Of course, I'm not gonna make it in one minute. We will therefore come back to this later, possibly even in the budget debate. Thank you and a blessed evening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u120	It's exciting. Then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u121	Thank you, Mr President. In preparation for the debate, a round table was held at the request of the CDA. It also showed that they still suffer under the line Zwolle-Amsterdam. Although there is 3.5G, it doesn't work that way, also a bit by Burum. The following comparison was made: it's actually like Max Verstappen with a regular car; you'll get to the finish line, but you won't be a winner. Perhaps the rulers will be able to say something about this or take it into account in their note before the end of the year. I would also like to thank the rulers very much for all the answers. In any case, my impression is that both are very committed to achieving a real solution here, so that 5G can be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u122	Mr. Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the eve of many digital developments that will make 5G possible, we discussed a number of technical aspects. I've noted a number of things that I'm satisfied with. I wasn't necessarily surprised, but okay. About the coverage she said that it's aim to quickly offer 5G internet, mobile internet, but also fixed internet in all regions. There is a need for coverage at the auctions of the frequency bands. The Secretary of State also sees and acknowledges that there is a development in which different types of infrastructure now managed by different companies are growing towards each other and offering the same services. We also need to have our moral, ethical and legal frameworks in place in terms of digitalisation before we make possible all developments related to self-driving, care and so on with 5G. As has been said, we have had a rather technical debate today. I supported two motions for resolutions on this matter. I also look forward to more fundamental debates with the Secretary of State and the Chamber on these digitisation issues, on the management of our digital infrastructure, on how we can keep the internet available and affordable for everyone, and in general on the digitisation of the Netherlands. I look forward to these debates. I don't have any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u124	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u125	Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus has already announced it and has already wished us a blessed evening, so I won't have to do that anymore. I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. I have to tell you, this gives me a lot of confidence. They're working hard on it. It may be a bit tricky sometimes, but I think the 5G will be fine eventually. And when it comes to planning, you can never give guarantees. I know that from experience. I have one motion. I said that this evening I was particularly in this debate to draw attention to the 5G network and faster internet in the outskirts. As a result, I have a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that companies and households in part of the off-site area depend on a specific broadband internet connection via the 3.5GHz frequency band for a fast and stable internet connection;]] [[whereas, in the long term, the 5G network may make specific broadband internet for outlying areas unnecessary, but this will not be the case in the short term and must first prove itself in practice;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure, in the deployment of the 5G network, that sufficient frequency space for broadband internet specifically for the benefit of the outlying areas remains available through the 3.5GHz frequency band for as long as necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u126	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u127	Mr. Chairman. Three questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u128	I'm sorry, I said Minister, but I meant Secretary of State, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u129	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I usually notice that, but I'm so busy with the content that I didn't notice now. The D66 and GroenLinks groups have asked me if the Ministry would like to discuss the experiments. I will ask the Telecom Agency to engage in discussions with the parties and to link them back to me. As far as I am aware, two applications have so far been made for experiments. Then Mr Paternotte also asked me to address the need of users for fast internet. This inventory is currently taking place. KWINK investigates current usage and future needs in the 3.5GHz band. This study is launched among current licence holders, but also among potential future users. The CDA group had learned that there was also a malfunction under the Amsterdam-Zwolle line. This is taken into account in the RIP investigation. Then I have some motions. The first is the Paternotte motion in part No. 441. It invites the government to launch an investigation into the feasibility and applicability of a financial instrument focusing on the roll-out of 5G in non-profit-making areas financed by the frequency auctions. Firstly, the auctioning of the 700 tyre licences is subject to a requirement for cover. It is intended, among other things, to improve coverage in the outskirts. The cover requirement will require winners of those permits to achieve cover in places where that is commercially uneconomic. The costs involved will result in the value of the permits being lower than if you do not make that requirement. In this way, the auction is already more or less paid for this, at least it has a dampening effect on the proceeds. I therefore see no need to make a separate instrument available. By the way, this is contrary to the budgetary rules we have agreed with each other, which result in auction revenues flowing into the general budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u130	I'll do one question per motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u131	Coverage doesn't say much about speed, of course. We now also have coverage in the outside area, but very often people can't receive 4G or 3G on their phone, or speed is limited due to a lack of spectrum space. That is also what Mr Stoffer is referring to. So we do have coverage, but do we really have a decent speed, which means that an IT company or farm in the Achterhoek, which really needs 5G to be able to apply precision agriculture, will soon have that guarantee? That is, of course, the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u132	Again, I can't give guarantees, but the auction of these tapes will include a cover requirement. This means, of course, that you can also use that fast internet in the relevant areas of the area that cover is required by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u133	Fine. Have we heard the O-word from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u134	What's that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u135	The o-word of "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u136	Yes. You got that right. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u137	Then that is recorded. Mr Paternotte briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u138	As I said, coverage also means that spectrum space there allows sufficient use, which also looks like use in the busiest areas in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u139	I've lost Mr Paternotte now. I'm sorry. I don't know exactly what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u140	We've all lost him once in a while, but now a little more than usual. No, I'm kidding. Mr. Paternotte, a third time; I said once, but in my goodness I will let you speak a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u141	That's because the Secretary of State says she lost me. I'm trying to find her again by saying that coverage doesn't necessarily mean anything about speed, because you have to have enough spectrum space. Otherwise, you're gonna be able to get through that real fast. You'll be at 5G, but then it'll run out very quickly and you'll have to go back to the old technology. That's the problem that people in the outside world are experiencing right now. That is why Mr Stoffer also calls attention to it. Is that coverage gonna give you enough spectrum over there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u142	I'm gonna take a look at the official support. Is this a question that can be answered yes or no? Is the answer to this question: yes? The answer to this last question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u143	Then we have found Mr Paternotte again. We're going to the motion in part no. 442.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u144	In the motion in part No. 442 by Mr Weverling and Mr Paternotte, the Government is invited to clarify the availability and auction date of the 3.5GHz band by the end of 2018 and to provide an outline of the further process towards the auction, taking into account the chosen solution direction for the Burum ground-satellite station. As has been shared in the debate, this is a motion that supports policy. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I'll come...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u145	Mrs Van den Berg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u146	I have another point of order. I may not have been considerate for a moment, but I am the motion in part No. Mr Paternotte c.s. Lost. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u147	Quite right. Maybe I should have said that. It's for the Minister. On the motion in part No. 440 is going to give the Minister a ruling. The motion in part No. Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag and others; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr Moorlag; Mr These were Mr Moorlag's pants with one pipe. As graphic as that may be, this motion precedes the consideration that still needs to be made. Fast 5G internet depends not only on the 3.5GHz band, but also on other frequency bands. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 444 by Mr Van der Lee and others the Government is invited to clarify the availability of the 3,5GHz frequency in the fourth quarter of 2018 and to ensure that this clarity exists before the next frequency auction takes place. I cannot give a guarantee, but I have indicated that when we inform the Chamber about the solution directions for the 3.5-band by the end of 2018, I would also like to clarify the auction. If I may understand the motion in this way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u148	Mr Van der Lee nods yes, so that is recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u149	I have another motion from Mr Stoffer and Mr Graus on part No. 445. It invites the deployment of the 5G network to ensure that sufficient frequency space for broadband internet, specifically for the benefit of the outlying areas, remains available through the 3.5GHz frequency band for as long as necessary. As much as I understand the importance, namely sufficiently fast internet access in the outskirts, I would ask Mr Stoffer to hold this motion. It anticipates the various investigations that are currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u150	That is a question for Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u151	One question to the Secretary of State, if you don't mind. When will these investigations become available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u152	Those various investigations will find their way to the Note Mobile Communication and the auction scheme. As promised to Mrs Van den Berg, these will be shared with the Chamber. At that time you can assess whether this interest has been taken into account to your satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u153	Good. Then we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u154	At the request of Mr Stoffer, I propose his motion (24095, 26643, No. 445). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u155	Finally, the Minister on the motion for a resolution on item No. 440.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee had asked me one question, but it was answered by the Secretary of State. The question was whether we would also like to participate in those experiments. I had indicated to Mr Van der Lee that I would check that out. I did. The services also want to see if they can participate in these experiments. That's how we can talk to them. By the way, I would like to say to Mrs Van den Berg that Max Verstappen has very often not reached the finish in the past year. So you have to follow the sport carefully. We're planning on getting to the finish line. Now I come to the assessment of the motion in part No. Mr Paternotte c.s. I'd like to leave that judgment to the Chamber. I will, of course, have a serious conversation with my fellow Members, as I said in my term. But I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-31.u157	Fine. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their presence. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. So much for this debate.
