ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	The next item is the Social Affairs and Employment budget (35000-XV). Today we have come to the answer of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also for the questions asked yesterday in the first term of the Chamber. I'd like to start with an introduction, if you'll allow me. At the end of the introduction I am going to indicate which blocks I have included in the reply. But first, I have five minutes of introduction. I hope you'll give me time to finish that introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'd love to. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, I started my work at a ministry that celebrates its 100th anniversary this year. Some of you spoke about this yesterday. Those are numbers that invite you to a reflection and to modesty. I would like to give you this reflection in my introduction today before I discuss the plans for next year with you and also answer your questions. The reflection begins with the Ministry itself. If I have noticed anything in the past year, it is the huge drive of all SZW officials, who not only worked hard, but also as true jugglers managed to keep a large number of balls in the air at the same time. At the same time, I found that one of the first major achievements of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Smeulders, spoke about this yesterday: the introduction of the eight-hour working day, at least, does not apply to ministers and State Secretarys. Mr. Chairman. There is an enormous urgency to tackle a number of social problems, although we may not feel that urgency right away. The labour market is in good shape, economically we are in the wind, purchasing power is increasing and unemployment continues to fall. No dirt in the air, it seems, but underlying there is more to it. Several speakers also mentioned this yesterday in their first term. It concerns, on the one hand, the point made by Mr Renkema in his maiden speech, for which I also congratulate him. He was talking about the sad head of the middle-cracy, a duality that I see myself. A growing gap of opportunities between higher and lower educated, between high and low incomes, between fixed and flex and between workers and non-working people, as also described in the report of the SCP, De sociale staat van Nederland, is. But whatever I see are underlying developments that are going to change our society and our labour market tremendously and have done so. These developments mean that the laws and institutions that have brought us much are in need of renewal. Our pension system is a good example of this. The best system in the world, it's said. But world champion is not a title for life. This is equally true of the leading positions on the ranking that Mr Wiersma mentioned yesterday. You have to keep working for that and if the playing field changes, you also need to review your tactics. Similarly, our economic prosperity is not eternally self-evident. If we do not tackle staff shortages with sustainable solutions, we will get the economic spurt back in our face like a boomerang. So there is and there remains a lot of work to be done. Mr. Chairman. When employers and employees failed to reach an agreement on the labour market together during the formation in summer 2017, the four coalition parties made ambitious commitments to reform the labour market. Last year I presented you with an approach along five routes with different gears, solutions and collaborations. For example, we have presented an ambitious approach with social partners to promote lifelong development. I'm also talking to them to make agreements on pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness and the WIA. A polder in optima forma can bridge peaceful contradictions, but that mechanism also works outside the square kilometres of The Hague, where we explicitly seek new forms of cooperation with experts, scientists and all kinds of stakeholders, from young to old, from all layers of society. My colleague, Secretary of State Van Ark, presented the broad offensive last week. The new integration policy also came into being together with parties from society. Where solutions have not been found together, the cabinet itself has taken responsibility, for example in relation to the much-needed maintenance of the labour market. This calls for tough decisions. That is why I immediately started working out the Labour Market Act in balance last year, the WAB. I'm glad your Chamber is taking this law forward. The government's approach to this without negotiations with social partners has not been received everywhere with open arms, and I understand that. But they are necessary measures that are moving the labour market forward. We certainly need to take account of the interests of the individual, but also of the general interest, because standstill is not an option. Mr. Chairman. Looking back on the past year, I have a double feeling: I am extremely proud of how much we have already achieved and at the same time I know that we are far from there. I'm proud of several milestones. Fathers are on extra birth leave from January 1st. The cradle has been hired, also in the Upper Chamber. Newcomers can participate much more easily in the new integration system. There was broad support for that in this Chamber. Employees trapped in temporary contracts will have better prospects for a permanent job, the WAB. We direct people to develop for the jobs of the future through Life Long Develop. These plans and legislation are a modern response to the challenges of our modern society. They enable personal choices, they encourage people to participate and they strengthen the labour market by bringing them back into balance. Of course, I am also disappointed that we have not yet managed to reform our pensions. The day before yesterday, Tuesday evening, I talked about that in detail with your room. Even when it comes to the measures relating to thezzp'ers and the payment of wages in the event of illness, we are not yet here. But I am very motivated to take steps forward here in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Together with your Chamber, I want to achieve results over the next few years. That is a difficult task, a long-term one. Because when I look at the political landscape, I see fragmentation and institutions under pressure. We live in a time of standing on your lines, of partial interests, of identity, of doors clapping on social media, in the polder and in the rest of the country. But those stripes end up stopping. You might win a battle with it, but you're gonna end up making us lose the battle together. Trust in people, as Mr Smeulders rightly said yesterday, really starts with confidence in each other. There is a huge urgency to tackle problems: the renewal of the pension system, the labour market back in balance and integration, which really can do much better. These are major system interventions that determine people's lives, not only of ourselves but also of future generations. In a strong labour market and society, there are no insides and outsiders, but everyone can participate. That's what I'm hard on and I'm hard on. Mr. Chairman. The man of the polder, Wim Kok, died last month. Earlier this year I was present at the launch of the Wim Kok tapes. On these tapes you will find no less than sixteen hours of interview with Mr Kok about his role as trade union leader. I'm just going to give it to the members of the Chamber as a viewing tip for the Christmas celebrations. That meeting was in the presence of Wim Kok himself. I found that very valuable that night, but looking back much more. It was an honor for me to speak there. I have deep respect for Wim Kok and the way he acted politically. He called that himself, and I think that is one of the most beautiful quotes from his repertoire, "the responsible accompaniment of inevitability and the art of the feasible." These words are still extremely topical. The world around us is transforming and that is an inevitability that we cannot and cannot close our eyes to. This transformation requires reflection, but not sitting still, and certainly not a status quo. We must take responsibility together and look at viable solutions. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes it seems like we can't do it anymore. I am convinced that it can be done: understanding each other's interests bring about agreements that really make the Netherlands better, even for the long term. So much for my introduction. I am going to try to answer the questions briefly, because 'who needs a lot of words, usually talks about them', I learned yesterday from Mr Van Rooijen, who, by the way, had the longest first term of all the members of this Chamber! But that aside, of course, Mr. Van Rooijen. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I answered some of the questions this morning in an extensive set. I've got a couple of blocks. I want to start with the labour market, then develop lifelong, work and care, old age and pensions, purchasing power, integration, and the state of implementation. And then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for the second part of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Brief question from Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	First of all, it is good that the Minister has an introduction this time. Last time, the minister immediately started reading the cubes and the prepared answers. I have a question about the introduction. I heard the Minister talking about the plans for 2019. Now I know something is going to happen around integration in 2019, but I was also very curious to see what should be achieved in the area of labour market for the minister at least next year. The WAB is this year's. Thezzp has moved forward. Will sickness pay be guaranteed in 2019? What are the Minister's goals for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Minister has yet to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	I will come back to all these points in a moment, but I am very pleased that Mr Van Kent is just as keen as I am to advance those plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'd like to say something, Mr. Van Kent, and not just to you. I'd be happy to answer the questions you asked yesterday. With, of course, also room for discussion, but I would like to give you that. Otherwise, those questions will remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	I understand that, but important part of yesterday's debate was also how this minister stands after one year, one month and one day. In the general introduction, the Minister spoke about his plans for next year. Nor am I concerned with the substantive, precise discussion about these plans. I am more concerned with the question of what the Minister wants to achieve at least in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'll come back to that in a moment. Over a wide palette of tracks that run we are working hard. I'll be right back on all the parts. Rest assured, Mr. Van Kent. It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Also what you want to achieve this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yeah, and this year, too. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the labour market balance. As I said in my introduction, the labour market is very good. Employment is growing rapidly. Never before have there been so many people at work. Unemployment is expected to fall further to 3.5% in 2019. This also leads to new problems. Employers are finding it increasingly difficult to fill vacancies. A well-functioning labour market is needed to cope with labour shortages. Supply and demand must be brought together better, as Mr Wiersma stressed yesterday in his first term. I very much agree with that. The cabinet is also committed to this, with a large number of measures. Thus, we reduce the burden on labour, make it easier to combine labour and care and stimulate a lifetime of development. The fact that the labour market is in good shape does not mean that there are no problems. In fact, the labour market needs a thorough overhaul. For example, look at the gap between fixed and flex. It is good news that employers often offer a fixed contract, but for too many people a fixed contract is out of reach, although they would like to do so and do their best to do so. Or look at the self-employed without staff. Zzp'ers and their clients need more clarity about their employment relationship. There is also a group ofzzp'ers who earn too little to insure themselves for disability or to build a good pension, or sometimes also hired as a bogus self-employed person. In short, the labour market is out of balance. The cabinet has an ambitious agenda to restore this balance during this cabinet period. Over the past year, we have taken a number of important steps. Earlier this month, I sent the labour market balance bill, the WAB, to your Chamber. I look forward to taking up the treatment here in the near future and talking to you about it. I also come, together with Secretary of State Snel van Financiën, with measures in the field ofzzp'ers. At the beginning of this week, I sent you the second progress letter. We are also taking important steps in this area. Firstly, we offer more clarity tozzp'ers and their clients. We do this by clarifying the authority criterion and working on a web module for clients. Those authority criteria were also sent along with last Monday's Kamerbrief. We're working hard on that web module right now. For higher rates, we offer extra security with an opt-out. We are also working on measures to protect vulnerable self-employed people, which was often discussed yesterday. There is also stricter enforcement of false self-employment. Finally, I am talking to social partners about the payment of wages in the event of illness. As I reported to you recently, these conversations are still ongoing. Before the turn of the year, I'll fill you in on that. Is that the end of the labour market? No, there are still a lot of important questions for the future. What's work gonna look like later? What do people want from their jobs? How are we supposed to deal with that as a government? We all have to find an answer to these questions. That is why I have set up the Regulatory Committee led by Hans Borstlap, former State Council. In a year's time, this committee will give its opinions. I will be speaking about this in detail in a moment. A lot of questions were asked yesterday about all these routes. I'll walk by: first the WAB, then thezzp'ers, then the pay-as-you-go and the WIA and finally a bunch of other questions. I'll start with the WAB. I welcome the broad support in your Chamber for the starting point of the SAB, namely that the gap between fixed and flex needs to be reduced. To this end, the SAB includes a large number of sixteen measures which together aim to restore the balance between flex and solid. We make the fixed contract more attractive to employers. In this way, we ensure that flexible deployment remains possible when required by the work, but that it is not more attractive because of cost benefits. And we offer flex workers more protection, for example the payroll forces. Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Kent were concerned that the WAB would lead to further flexibilisation. I do not share these concerns, because the WAB allows flexible work where necessary, but also makes fixed contracts more attractive, for example through premium differentiation, a lower WW premium for fixed contracts. Mrs Van Brenk specifically asked about the construction of the transition fee, especially for older workers. Indeed, it is true that the transition fee will be reduced for employees with employment for more than 10 years. This is linked to the measure that workers are entitled to a transitional allowance from the first day of their employment. In this way, we reduce the differences between long-term and short-term contracts. Finally, Mr Smeulders asked whether I still consider it important that the measures in the SAB should be considered in conjunction with other measures in the context of payment of wages and salaries. My answer is complete: yes. So in the timing of the measures, too, we are trying to join together. This means that all these measures, all these laws, will have to enter into force during this cabinet period. The majority of the measures in the SAB will start on 1 January 2020 and some will start on 1 January 2021. I sent the letter on Monday aboutzzp, part of which is already known: the authority criteria, the web module to be developed and the legislation, which will be sent to your Chamber during 2019, so that everything can be seen in conjunction with each other and also about simultaneously. That depends on a six-month period every now and then. This has to do with implementation aspects. It depends on whether the UWV or the Tax Administration could have introduced this on time and with other aspects. The aim is to look at it in conjunction, also in the light of the criticism of the Council of State, and to have it all jointly lead to legislation and implementation during this cabinet period. I see an interruption, but may I first do the last point, in addition to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	It is my intention to start the internet consultation in the first half of 2019 with regard to the legislation for the bottom and top measures zzp. This makes it clear in what direction we are thinking. Mr Wiersma asked for it in his speech. In other words, with the payment of wages, thezzp and the WAB you have a total picture of what is going to change in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yesterday, I congratulated this Minister on having the transition fee entered immediately. I really think that is an advantage, but I don't understand why older workers have to pay the price because long-term employment is very often linked to higher age than the price. Why does this minister think that's good or better? It feels like D66 is dealing with older bashens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	The opposite is the case. What we have done is for everyone, young or old, equalize the build-up of the transition fee. In other words, if you have a long employment, you will of course build up a higher transition fee. It goes to a third of a month's transition fee per year you've worked. If you have a longer employment, you will indeed also have a higher transition fee. So far, even before the Asscher Work and Security Act, there has been an additional build-up of the dismissal allowance if you were older. This also means that employers are very reluctant to employ older workers. This is an important subject, which Mrs Van Brenk raises more often. Employers say of these austerity measures but also of the redundancy compensation: I do not want them; so I no longer employ someone who is older. It is precisely by aligning and keeping the set-up of redundancy payments for all generations that you are trying to remove that distinction for employers, also in order to get older workers back to a permanent contract when they have unexpectedly been sidelined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	Finally, on this point. You don't have to, Mrs. Van Brenk. The Minister is there on behalf of the Crown and not on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you're right. I would like to know from the Minister whether this does not lead to age discrimination by looking at it differently: after 50 years you are building up differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, I don't think so. So far, we have had the system in which age was distinguished. That is what we are actually pulling across all generations or age cohorts, also to prevent the other side from being discriminated against in the labour market because employers say that we no longer employ people over 50, because they are so expensive for us. It's precisely from that thought that it's aligned. That was already used by the Work and Security Act of my predecessor, and that is what we are now moving on to the equal structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Smeulders, also a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to do my best. I welcome the Minister's answers: the WAB,zzp and pay-as-you-go payment in the event of illness go in fairly simultaneously. Otherwise we are afraid of shifting effects, for example to zzp. I do wonder whether the Minister has any idea what is actually expected of all these measures together, for example with regard to fixed contracts and flexible contracts. So that's what I'd like to know from the Minister. You say, in response to a number of colleagues, that this will not lead to more flexibility. Do you have any hard data on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	Did the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	I also believe that a distinction should be made between cyclical effects and structural effects. In recent times you can see that by attracting the economic cycle and tightening the labour market, more permanent contracts are offered. The number of flex contracts is still rising, but much less than a few years ago, during the crisis. You can also see that employers want to commit people again by offering a permanent contract. If you look back a little bit longer, ten, fifteen, twenty years, you will indeed see that flexibilisation continues and that the proportion of fixed contracts actually decreases structurally. This, of course, has to do with the great difference I would like to mention: 'the gap' between firm and flex in terms of protection against dismissal, all kinds of other rights and obligations and all kinds of costs associated with them. Flex is cheaper. That is, of course, very weird economically. If you're flexible, it's usually paid for in the economy. In the labour market, it's the other way around. With the SAB, we want to reduce the cost differences between fixed and flex and we want to make it attractive for employers to offer fixed contracts. It is very difficult to give a concrete figure, because you are simply having cyclical effects, but I hope that this trend will be reversed. I also think that this is one of the most important goals in which we will have to keep our finger on the pulse in the near future to see if this is actually happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	I share the Minister's analysis; there is no discussion about that. However, we would like to make decisions on the basis of figures. The SAB is the first concrete measure. Is it perhaps a good idea for the Minister to have the CPB analyse what the SAB and all the other measures do with fixed contracts and flexible contracts, for example, before dealing with the SAB? So we can make an assessment of that at the WAB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	In the explanatory memorandum to this law, I discussed in detail the historical development of these figures and the analyses underlying them. This is a special feature for the Netherlands, because the Netherlands has a large share of flex contracts. Studies and analyses have, of course, been carried out on all these elements in recent years. Think, for example, of the right of dismissal. Since the Red Committee, it has been a long discussion in the Netherlands how that divides the insiders and outsiders on the labour market. So it is a package of sixteen measures which are all working in the right direction. I fully agree with Mr Smeulders that we need to keep an eye on developments and keep an eye on the pulse. We need to see if it works what we're doing. At the same time, I also know that with the WAB, thezzp and the pay-by-payment in the event of illness, we are far from there against a background of a structurally changing labour market with platform economy, digitisation and globalisation. That is why I have also installed the committee to look at the regulation of work in the longer term. So we're keeping our finger on the pulse, but I don't think it makes sense to do a preliminary analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	I note that the Minister's Flex Act, the payment of wages in the event of illness and the measures onzzp's will not enter into force in 2019 at least, but that it will be 2020 or 2021. But my question is about the Minister's response to my first-term questions about the increase in flex workers by the new Flex Act. I quote the Council of State. They say that there will be no substantial new balance between the different forms of work and that the imbalance will mainly be arranged slightly differently. The Council of State therefore has a hard-hitting opinion on this law and, like the SP, finds that this is not going to be a solution. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	First of all, the law is in your Chamber. If Mr Van Kent wants to speed up, we are going to deal with it quickly and can be implemented quickly. So thank you for that. The second point is the Council of State. I am afraid Mr Van Kent is reading the Council of State wrongly. The Council of State is indeed critical of the law, and I very much agree with that. The Council of State also warns about the waterbed effect: if you don't do something on thezzp-side, it will rise. The same applies, for example, to the payroll. That's why we try to do everything at the same time, so both thezzp and the wage payment in case of illness and the Labour Market Act in balance. At the same time, the Council of State notes what I have just said to Mr Smeulders, namely that the developments that are coming towards us are much more fundamental, such as platforming and developments around meal delivery. I think that is a valid analysis of the Council of State. All these developments question the current institutions in the labour market. That is why I also installed Mr Borstlap's committee to look into this. 'Cause we're really not there with this yet. In the coming years, this discussion will continue and we will have to look at a balance between flexibility and security and the opportunity for people to develop, precisely to counter the gap between fixed and flex that threatens the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	Finally, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	However, I am pleased to note that the bad measures set out in the Minister's Flex Act are also being pushed forward to 2021. Moving forward is not always a good idea in my view, except when it comes to bad measures. I am glad that these things are all being pushed forward as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	But I literally quoted the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	Well... Never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	You say that I misinterpret it, but the Council of State finds that there is absolutely no indication that there are more secure, fixed contracts under the Flex Act of this Minister. It is therefore not my interpretation of the reaction of the Council of State; it is the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	That is an interesting point, because the Council of State is actually saying that we should go much further in the matter of dismissal. We should go much further and I remember that the SP was not in favour of this in recent years. The Council of State says: you need to take a few more steps to further relax the right of dismissal. That's what the Council of State says. Now Mr Van Kent is using, and I find that ironic, that argument in my direction. I think Mr Van Kent should read again what the Council of State writes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	But the bill is still being dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yes, that's still under discussion; you're right, Mr. President. And hopefully that will happen very quickly, so that Mr Van Kent will be served at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	Good. Then I will go to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	Let's talk about the Borstlap committee. Over the past few years, we've had several investigations. The Economic and Social Council has issued a number of opinions. We have the ibozzp, the OECD and the Scientific Council for Government Policy. My experience in a coalition with the VVD is: if you don't get out politically, you set up a committee. I feel the same way about the Borstlap Committee. I think the Minister would like to protect the platform workers and do something for thezzp'ers, but that is not allowed. That is really what is evident from the fact that we are setting up a committee again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	I do not agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk for three reasons. The first is that, in the coalition agreement with all four parties, we have already reached agreement to achieve greater protection at the bottom of thezzp market. People below €15 to €18 per hour should actually be employed according to the coalition agreement. That means more protection. That's one. Two: we were already working on the committee from the coalition agreement, but the opinion of the Council of State on the SAB has accelerated this. The Council of State notes that there are more fundamental developments in our labour market which justify a new balance between protection and flexibility. That didn't happen overnight. This is also linked to a trial involving Mr Gijs van Dijk himself, namely the Deliveroocasus. To this you can see that current legislation does not really provide an answer to changing labour market relationships, contractual forms and the economy. We really need to have this fundamental discussion with each other. We're not very far away from that. That's why I put these ten good-looking heads together to look at this integrally. They look at labour law, whose authority relationship from 1907 is still the cornerstone, at social security law, but also at taxation. I think it is extremely important that we do so because of future challenges. Now we often put all kinds of fingers in the dike to reverse developments and as a result something pops up elsewhere. For example, in the zzp development we have seen that this again led to developments in payrolling. Mr Gijs van Dijk has also tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, which we have once again taken into account in the Labour Market Act in balance. We want this to be an integral part of each other. So, frankly, I do not see that reproach in practice. I'm very motivated to really get on with it once they've got it. That is what I said at the time that committee was set up. I think this is urgent. We must also have this discussion politically and socially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	There's an incredible amount going on. The world is changing very quickly and work is changing very quickly. Some people suffer from that. When it comes to fingers in the dike, I do know a few things we could do by now. When it comes to protecting people with small incomes who are now self-employed, you could start to maintain them. Of this, I see in the letter that it is taking a long time and that there are few concrete results. For example, you could think of a basic insurance for the construction worker of 60 who is now excluded from insurance. There are a few small steps on the way to a new world that we could already take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	I'll be right back on those steps, including yesterday's. But I would also like to point out that the Labour Market Act balances two aspects which Mr Gijs van Dijk found very positive, namely tackling payroll constructions and the premium differentiation in the WW, which means that fixed contracts receive a lower WW premium than flexible contracts. These are ideas which also live with Mr Gijs van Dijk and which we have included in the Labour Market Act in balance, which hopefully can also count on the support of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	I now move on to the subject ofzzp, still in the labour market block. Mr Wiersma asked me yesterday to confirm that the working module will be available on 1 January 2020. Yes, I can confirm that. This module is expected to be ready by the end of 2019. We are now very hard at testing and testing. We also involved scientists in the development of the web module. I informed you about that last Monday. I will inform you more about this before the summer of 2019. Then I'll come to the underside measure. Mr Gijs van Dijk has just mentioned it in his interruption: the low-cost employment contract. Unfortunately, we are facing problems with European law. Mr Wiersma asked me, and I quote what he said yesterday: 'How we are getting Europe back on track'. He also read that the European Commission would block the measure. That is not the case. I'd like to make this right. However, we have had informal discussions with staff from the European Commission. The Commission did not give an opinion on the plans. As I write in my letter last Monday, the Dutch Government has come to the conclusion, on the basis of its own analysis, that the low-rate employment contract is unlikely to be legally sustainable in its current design. It's complex matter. I referred to this in my first letter of April this year. I'm gonna try to explain it. The low-fare contract makes a contract of employment mandatory for workers who are actually selfemployed under European law. This means that you forbid a certain group of workers to be entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. That is the consequence of that measure. This is probably an infringement of the freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services for self-employed persons. For lovers, these are Articles 49 and 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Part of the solution might be that you only declare the measures applicable to the Dutchzzp'ers and not tozzp'ers from other EU countries, but the cabinet obviously thinks that this is undesirable. We're also investigating alternatives. Mr Heerma asked me to deal specifically with the generic minimum rate. Is that even a possibility? With such a minimum rate, you don't forbid someone to be an entrepreneur, but you do set conditions. We are, of course, doing so in more areas. If you have very good reasons for doing so, it can be a legitimate obstacle to the freedom to provide services. We're figuring it out. We see possibilities, but it's about complex matter. I would like to emphasise that once again. We have, of course, also looked at other countries and looked at whether there are other variants. We'll take them with us on the reconnaissance. So I cannot say whether a generic tariff is a viable solution. But we'll do more research on it. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important to stress that the objectives of the cabinet are paramount here, namely to protect vulnerable self-employed people, to combat false self-employment and to prevent competition on working conditions. Honestly, I have broad support for that in this Chamber. That also supports me in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	Were you done with the subject ofzzp? 'Cause I'd like you to finish that before anyone interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	Zzp? No. I'll finish that. I can therefore reassure Mr Gijs van Dijk on this point: there is broad support for this in the coalition too. So we can really go through with it. Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked me if I would be willing to ask the ESC to launch a reconnaissance on platform work. We've been investigating that ourselves. I welcome Mr Gijs van Dijk's request. I had SEO run a research on platform work this year. I sent that to your room, too. This study shows that platform work is likely to continue to grow. It is still limited, 0.3% of employment, but it will continue to grow. It will also extend to other sectors. I will ask the ESC if it is prepared to carry out an exploration of this subject from its expertise. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma, as well as Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders, ask what progress has been made with the tax authorities' enforcement of false self-employment. Of course, I am working closely with the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Snel. The activities of the Tax Administration are his responsibility. So I have some hesitation in going into this too much today. In fact, I should refer you to the forthcoming AO Tax Office, the general consultation on 6 December, but I understand your interest and I also see the relevance of your questioning for this debate. That's why I called my colleague last night, asking if he had any information for me that I can share with you. On 1 July, the Tax Administration published the Labour Relations Monitoring Plan. Its implementation goes according to the plan we agreed on. The Tax Administration has selected 100 clients for a company visit. The first 50 company visits were made to clients who have a model contract, which they submitted to the Tax Administration. So they're also known to the IRS. Clients have been visited who have approved, withdrawn or rejected a model agreement. So there were three categories. These 50 visits have already been completed. The second 50 company visits take place precisely with clients who have not previously had prior consultation with the Tax Administration. That selection was more complicated, let's face it. Most of these company visits have started. These are clients in various branches and sectors that do not yet work with an approved model agreement. A selection was made on the basis of risk analysis. The Tax Administration has talked to all these clients about how they work and how they deal with contractors. These discussions show that clients want clarity about the employment relationship, and above all about the issue of the relationship of authority. That is also well known in the Chamber. Most clients want to do well, but now experience a risk in hiringzzp'ers, of which they become uncertain. As a result of the visit of the Tax Administration, several clients started to work with the qualification of employment relations. At the end of 2018, so next month, the Tax Administration will make up a stand of the 100 company visits we have announced. The Tax Administration will report on this to the State Secretary for Finance in January 2019. In the light of the qualification of the employment relationship, the Tax Administration also supervises the correct application of the wage charge. This monitoring takes place within the existing capacity, during the regular checks of the payroll charge. That is what happens next to the 100 company visits we have announced. The 22nd half-yearly report of the Tax Administration shows that since the introduction of the DBA Act, 50 clients have qualified an assessed employment relationship as an employment relationship, i.e. something was going on there. There may have been evident malice, the criterion on which it is assessed. Further investigation has been carried out into these 50 cases. 42 of these clients were found not to be malicious. 8 investigations are ongoing at the moment. Again, it is not about individualzzp'ers, but about the client side, so companies that hirezzp'ers. In short, much has happened in recent months. The Secretary of State can tell you more about it during the AO of 6 December about the Tax Administration, but I thought it was important to share this with you already because you are interested in this, which I understand very well given the background to this discussion. This was the block ofzzp, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	We are going to talk about this in detail. My picture from the letter is that there is serious progress on a number of points, but that the concern lies in the legal qualification at the bottom. I therefore have two check questions for this debate. Do I understand correctly that setting a minimum rate does not seem to meet European law concerns, but that the concern lies solely in the fact that you are qualified under that rate as an employee? If the answer to that question is yes, will the Minister, who will hopefully not give up and see how far he is going to go, then how do we deal with the fictitious employment? 'Cause that's a lot like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u53	Yes, a lot of progress is being made. Look at the web module, the opt-out and the authority relationship definition. On this point I am very motivated and I also feel broad political support. Very briefly, I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's analysis, but I have just made one point towards Mr Heerma: we are trying to find out whether this is legally sustainable. That is why I have stressed that, as far as I am concerned, the aim is to protect the vulnerable and prevent false self-employment. I explained that you would then run into Articles 49 and 56 of the Treaty on European Union. A minimum rate seems to offer more possibilities, but we really need to find out if this is going to hold up properly. We have had the fictitious employment; we still have it in a limited number of categories. They were largely deleted by the previous cabinet, partly following the introduction of the DBA Act. That could be an alternative, but I would like to focus on the bottom-up measures and the minimum rate measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u54	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u55	But my question was just different. If the minimum rate under which someone is an employee could not be because there is doubt about it, I think it is very sensible that the Minister should say: I am not gambling on one horse. Only in the past we've had the fictitious employment. So I hope he doesn't give up the coalition chord line too soon. I have every confidence in that. But we also had the fictional employment, which apparently was Europeproof. I therefore hope that this will be taken into account in the legal analyses, because that too was an instrument by which de facto employeeship was enforced, albeit in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u56	Yeah, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u57	This was the block ofzzp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u59	I had a question about cost benefits for migrant workers. Is the minister still going to come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u61	Then Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u62	We're talking about protecting the self-employed. Yesterday we had a debate on insurance in various interruptions. Then the construction worker of 60 years who has paid 20 years' premium and then has no choice because the insurer says: you are too old, you no longer have insurance. Then the creed goes that the self-employed always has a choice just no longer, because your only choice is to solve it yourself and that if you really get sick, you have a problem. How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u63	If Mr Van Dijk agrees, I will come back to that later, because I have a very comprehensive set of answers about thezzp insurance market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u64	Then the Minister will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u65	The Minister has already replied in writing to my suggestion to add 10% to the VAT rate on invoices. This is not meant as an additional VAT rate. Although this is allowed in theory, no one wants to do so, namely another third or fourth VAT rate. What I meant was another sui-generis storage next to the VAT bill. Will the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u66	A raise for what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u67	A premium for disability insurance and/or a pension. That's what I asked. Perhaps it is best for the Minister to return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u68	Is this about setting tariffs? Because then I can answer that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u69	Yeah, it's part of the fare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u70	Okay. We have discussed this before, but I can explain that again. The coalition agreement has opted for a tariff width of between €15 and €18 per hour for the underside measure. It is not for nothing, because it concerns the minimum wage for workers with a 40% premium for employers' costs and with a premium for insurance and pension provision. That's where the €15 to €18 comes from. The minimum hourly wage is about €10; depending on age there are of course some differences. Technically, we do not have a minimum hourly wage in the Netherlands, but that €15 to €18 is based on the minimum wage for workers plus a premium for costs, insurance and pension building.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you for that answer. Does that mean that the possibility of taking out disability insurance will be financially created and that it will also be paid for this pension? Well, in that case, we'll soon agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u72	That is indeed a very explicit option. The only nuance I want to make is that in many pension schemes, of course, we also have a franchise. Mr Van Rooijen knows that better than anyone. The franchise means that as far as the minimum wage is concerned, there is actually no pension structure because we have the AOW for that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u73	No, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u74	Can I just...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u75	No, now Mr Smeulders. Everyone asks a question and a follow-up question, Mr. Van Rooijen. You will be given the opportunity to do so in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm glad the Cabinet recognizes that something really needs to happen at the bottom of thatzzp market. It is very complicated and difficult for Europe to be a sta-in-the-way. What I am very concerned about right now is the maintenance of the current situation. You also write about it in the letter you sent to the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u77	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u78	The Minister. I'm sorry, I really need to do better. The Minister also writes about it in the letter he sent to the Chamber. It states that 100 clients have been selected with whom conversations are conducted and with almost all those clients who have already had those talks but that there is no conclusion at all. Could the Minister comment on that? 'Cause I really think we should go through with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u79	Two things. I would like to emphasise that Europe is not a sta-in-the-way. It is on the basis of our own analysis of the European Convention that this labour law debate arises. In fact, in Europe I also have a great deal of discussion with my colleagues about the social pillar, the social pillar, in this context. All countries, especially the Western European countries, are struggling with these issues. My Belgian colleague and German colleague are also dealing with platform work, and I also see that labour law is crumbling there. That's one. So not Europe is a sta-in-the-way, but it is the treaty and the way in which we deal with it in future legislation. Two. I've just told you about the enforcement... everything that's happened. Again, in the AO of 6 December on the Tax Administration, Mr. Snel can give a lot more details; I just don't have those details. Let me tell you what my image is and what we announced when we launched this before 1 July 2018. That is that it also has a great preventive effect, because the Tax Administration is talking to those clients and says: "You have now so qualified it. We do not think this is right; can you change it?" That too is an important by-catch of these controls, but the details are really the responsibility of the Secretary of State. I can't say much more about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u80	My question follows on from that of Mr Smeulders. During the previous period, the discussion also focused on whether it is the Tax Administration or the labour market. That is just at the bottom of the question as to whether or not there is malice, because a construct is being used, when it is actually about employeeship. Then it's on that intersection. So even if we are going to talk about how we are going to set that minimum rate here in this house, on legislative issues that the Minister is working on, this is going to lead to discussions here. If there are from company visits all kinds of companies that are potentially malicious, but that does not turn out to be in practice, I would nevertheless like us here as Chambers and also as Committee on Social Affairs to be informed. That's what I asked yesterday. What do we find, what about, where are the problems, how is it improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u81	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u82	How does the Minister intend to do that? 'Cause that's not just finance, that's a technical...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u83	I understand Mr Heerma's question very well. In fact, we have given in the approach not only the Tax Administration, but also the Inspection SZW a role to maintain on bogus constructions. We also have the Wet approach fakes constructions, the WAS. So this is happening on both routes, but I understand Mr Heerma's question very well. I will quickly accept with my colleague Mr Snel that he not only informs the Committee on Finance about these developments, but also the Committee on Social Affairs. That is what I would like to do, and that is what I agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u84	Then I suggest you move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u85	It's about disability insurance. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Mr Heerma asked me about my ambitions to increase the level of insurance forzzp'ers, in line with the coalition agreement. Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk have even said that such insurance must be compulsory. I share the concern that the insurance rate amongzzp'ers is very low. That's why we agreed that we're talking to the insurance companies to increase that insurance grade. Last Monday, in a letter, I outlined the state of play of these discussions. I understand the disappointment that was expressed yesterday about the state of play. The letter clearly shows that the limits of the current regime are based on political choices made and on a look at the labour market, from the past. In other words, entrepreneurs are entrepreneurs. They also have the self-employed deduction and can finance insurance and facilitate pension building. Many entrepreneurs do, but they are entrepreneurs. On the contrary, the debate becomes complicated when it comes to the question of what are real entrepreneurs and what are false self-employed people? Together with the insurance companies, I want to encourage self-employed people to make a conscious choice and find a better way to get to insurance. As I announced in the letter, I will start a program with the relevant stakeholders to increase the level of insurance. The position ofzzp'ers is also the subject of the Borstlap Committee on the regulation of work, which I have just referred to. Protection of disability risks is also part of the research. I cannot anticipate the outcome of that. Mr Gijs van Dijk has also proposed the introduction of an acceptance obligation for private insurers. That seems too complicated to me. An acceptance obligation would mean that private insurers would not be allowed to refuse someone for insurance. Insurers should therefore acceptzzp's who have a significantly higher risk of incapacity for work, e.g. if there is a history of illness or even if they are already disabled. In a private market, this would lead to extremely high premiums. Premiums must be cost-effective on the basis of the risk profile of the insured person. Such insurance would thus still not be accessible tozzp'ers who need it, because a kind of self-selection will arise. That's why I don't see any sense in that. As a result, Mrs Van Brenk asked about possibilities for collective disability insurance. I can respond positively to that. This possibility already exists. This can be done, for example, by collectively taking out insurance through an interest organisation or an inter-branch organisation. For example, the Platform Self-Employees and FNV Self-Employees have already concluded such contracts with private insurers in the past. Members get a discount if they join such a collective. The initiatives in this respect lie with the parties themselves. As I announced in my letter, it is mainly about raising awareness that you need to take out such insurance in time. That's often the bottleneck: that people don't start taking out insurance on time. Mr President, that was the question of disability insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u86	A few developments you need to investigate further, but this is really very disappointing. 'Cause this is just a standstill, maybe a decline. I understand the coalition is different in this. The coalition is divided. But there's no freedom of choice for that 60-year-old construction worker. He doesn't have a choice. After having paid a decent 20-year premium, he is told by the insurer that he is too old and that he is no longer receiving insurance. Then what is the Minister's answer? Find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'm still trying to outline the broader perspective. In the Netherlands, we have made a conscious choice between employees and the self-employed. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk that false self-employment runs through this. Those are the people who aren't really entrepreneurs. I feel broad support in the Chamber to address this problem. That's why I have the plans for the web module and that's why I have the plans for better protection at the bottom. Real entrepreneurs are given the freedom to undertake and to take their own risks and profits. They are therefore also themselves responsible for pension provision or disability insurance. On the other hand, there is the discussion about the bogus self-employed and how we are going to deal with it. I'm motivated to take that big step in the coming time. That's one. Two is the functioning of the private insurance market: are you gonna get in the way? Talks about this with insurance companies are ongoing. It's mostly about taking out an insurance policy in time. Once you're a little older and you're at a big risk, it's very complicated to get in the middle. On some parts the private market does not deliver either. I see that. The conversations are continuing. With insurers I try to raise awareness and thereby increase the level of insurance. However, this discussion runs counter to the fundamental choice between entrepreneurs on the one hand and employees on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u88	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u89	But this isn't about a choice. This is about the real entrepreneur who opts for entrepreneurship and because of his age is out of insurance. Then you can talk endlessly to insurance companies that has been happening for years but the insurers are not going to change the behavior. That's up to us here. We must say to insurance companies that, despite their age, they must be able to take out insurance for an affordable premium. That's right here, isn't it? That's not insurance, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u90	Well, I don't think so. Indeed, it lies with entrepreneurs who are entrepreneurs, who make a conscious choice and who try to offer good products in the market. On the other hand, there is the false self-employed debate, which is actually a different discussion. I'm sorry, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u91	You may explain, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u92	This is about the real entrepreneur, who earns well, who is plasterer, but who can no longer guarantee himself because of his age. Then there's no choice. Then the minister can talk to insurers endlessly. The insurers say: sorry, the risk is too high. That debate is here. I note that politics has no answer, despite the questions from the entrepreneurs, the real entrepreneurs. I note that the Minister will continue to talk, but nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u93	The latter is certainly not true. We will continue to talk to the insurers and the private providers to get them to offer those products. In practice, we see that a lot of people postpone the choice of insurance, so they are not going to think about this type of risk until too late. Then you will indeed find more expensive products or in a situation that it is no longer possible to do so. One of the actions I announced in the letter last Monday is to raise this point precisely so that people take out insurance earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u94	I spoke yesterday about the self-employed deduction. I called it the tax elephant in the room by now. I entered it myself once for €200 and it is now €7,300. My question to the Minister is as follows. If the self-employed deduction of €7,300 together with the profit deduction results inzzp'ers paying up to €25,000 all tax and AOW premium and up to €35,000 only a little AOW premium, does it not make sense to consider, as we have also suggested, giving part of the self-employed deduction only if you also take out disability insurance and maybe "or" at the beginning, but rather "and" This especially for the bottom; perhaps an exception can be made for the really expensivezzp'ers. We think this is so important because we can justly link the fiscal instrument, which has gone a little out of control, to something we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u95	I certainly understand Mr Van Rooijen's question. The idea is, of course, that entrepreneurs who have freedom of choice are allowed by the self-employed to close and save for this type of business. When it comes to the large group that does not pay taxes and which, as I hear supplementing Mr Van Rooijen, does not pay AOW premiums, the differences in taxation at the bottom of the labour market have become considerably smaller in recent years. This also has to do with the introduction of LIV, the low-income advantage, in the previous cabinet period. That's one. Two is this: it is the intention, through the measure employment contract at the bottom and thezzp-side, to make a large part of the people who have a low income, so to speak, an employee, and thus indeed to pay contributions and social security. A large part of Mr Van Rooijen's problem is thus resolved. Just sitting, as I have just explained, on the way to achieve this, hooks and eyes, as well as laws and practical objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u96	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u97	I thought the minister was actually willing to have it looked at. Apart from the real bottom is that up to €25,000 nothing is paid at all and up to €35,000 a little bit. That's not the real bottom. So my question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to go and see if we want to link the self-employed deduction, at least a large part of it, to the taking of insurance and the making of retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u98	We have deliberately not chosen for this, even in the coalition agreement. It has been a political choice not to do so, regardless of the fact that I am wondering whether it is technically feasible. But that is the content of your question, and we have not made that political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr President, could I ask a question about the disability benefit, the WIA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u100	Yeah, that's what this is about, isn't it? I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u101	This is about disability insurance. I'll be at the WIA next, but this is a logical little bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u102	It's okay now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u103	Over the past week, the news has come that there is a situation in which there is a situation in which the number of people over 60 is tripled by the number of people who have been declared unfit for work, or at least that kind of insurance is required. This is largely due to the AOW increase in age. Now I know the Minister's not gonna do anything about it. He's not gonna freeze, you name it; we've had long discussions about that. But we see at the same time that he wants to cut back on the WIA. Can this Minister put forward something concrete today about how he is going to help that group, those people who have thus been declared unfit to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u104	I think it would be a good idea to distinguish between two things. Over the past few years, we have also had a debate on this in this Chamber, which is increasing the influx into the WIA, especially among older people. The chance of influx into the WIA is a bit out of my mind, because I haven't prepared this for people who are 63, 64 years old than for people who are under 60. This also explains the higher influx into the WIA, because the participation rate, i.e. the proportion of people aged between 60 and 65, 66 years that work, has risen sharply in recent years. This is, of course, linked to the increase in the age of AOW, but also to the abolition of the early retirement and pre-pension schemes. That's what the UWV's been investigating, which I sent to the Chamber for a few weeks. That is about what the explanations are for this high influx. Is it related to other things, regardless of age? No satisfactory explanation has been found for this. It may also be a naill effect of the crisis, but of course we will soon be discussing it extensively. That's one discussion. However, we must realise that for this group it is still about a 1.25% chance to flow into the WIA. This group's employment rate is much higher. About the cuts in the WIA or the measures announced in the coalition agreement, I sent you a letter last Monday. In line with the Heerma motion, I am still in conversation with the employers' and employees' organisations. I can't tell you about that yet. For the sake of completeness, I note that in the General Political Reviews we have postponed the budget cuts for 2019 for a year to 2020 because we do not have the time to conduct this discussion carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u105	With all due respect, this is not an answer to my question. The UWV itself says that the increase towards the WIA is partly due to the increase in the AOW age. The Minister is right, of course, that if you are 62 you are more likely to receive disability benefits. Then it's crazy that people are forced to work longer. You used to be able to quit at 65, and then you'd have two more years to cover if you were 63. Now you have to bridge more years. My only question I asked in peace was what this minister is going to do for those people today when he does not want to freeze or lower the age of AOW. What exactly is he going to do for all these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u106	I have tried to answer Mr De Jong's question, but perhaps I have done something unfortunate or not clear enough. I said that we can see that in recent years the age of exit, the age at which people leave the labour market, has risen considerably. Around 2003 that was 59 years and now it is almost 65 years. This is, of course, due to the abolition of the VRS and the pre-pension schemes, but also to the shifting of the AOW age. I agree with Mr De Jong that there is a greater chance of influx into the WIA for a group. That's what we see in the numbers. When people are older, there is a greater chance of entering into disability schemes. But that is, in a sense, separate from the discussion on the coalition agreement measures on the WIA. I am talking about this with the social partners, and I will be coming back to the Chamber shortly to discuss it. Mr De Jong would like to see the increase in the AOW age reversed. I do not think that this is a sensible measure, especially given the fact that the employment rate has increased so much in recent years. This is necessary in order to keep our collective provisions affordable in the future. Then it's about care, education and infrastructure. We've had that whole discussion before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u107	I would like to clarify the question, otherwise we will not get out. Can the Minister describe a specific measure he is taking for this group? I'm talking about the group that's getting extra into the WIA because of the increase in the AOW age. That's actually my only question. If we didn't raise the AOW age, those people wouldn't have to be in the WIA for so long. My question is: what are you doing for this specific group? I believe the Minister is just a little bit more intelligent than he's looking at right now and he understands very well what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u108	I'm really looking, Mr. De Jong, for exactly what you mean. The WIA continues to the AOW age, which doesn't stop at 65 or so. I'm really trying to answer your question, but I honestly don't understand what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u109	I'd like to come back to disability insurance forzzp'ers. I have a bit of a problem with the Minister's image, namely that there is a really big difference between entrepreneurs on the one hand and workers on the other. It's perfectly possible to do something. From 1998 to 2004 we had the WAZ, the law disabilityzzp'ers. From 1976 to 1998 my party was actually much more enthusiastic about the AAW, the General Disability Act. Will the Minister acknowledge that it is possible to do something about it, but that it is simply a political choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u110	I very much agree with Mr Smeulders on the latter. Indeed, we used to have the WAZ, the Disability Insurance Act for Self-employed Persons. In my view, it was abolished in 2006 after a lot of criticism of that scheme. I am looking for the precise line of GroenLinks, I say honestly. On Tuesday evening we also had this debate, but with Mr Klaver, on the pension agreements. Then Mr Klaver said: I am not talking about entrepreneurs, but about people who actually work at a company and who are being exploited. That was Mr Van Weyenberg's question yesterday in an interrupting debate. In the Netherlands, we have the distinction between entrepreneurs, who are free to take out insurance, have to make their own choice and take their own risk versus employees, who are protected by social security schemes. I also understood yesterday in Mr Smeulder's interruption debate with Mr Van Weyenberg that Mr Smeulders also wants to distinguish between entrepreneurs and employees or false self-employed people. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u111	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u112	I understand the Minister's approach to the WAZ, because it was indeed less popular. The AAW worked perfectly. That is actually the proposal contained in our electoral programme: let us regulate it collectively for everyone in the Netherlands as much as possible. As Mr Klaver pointed out, we are looking for: how can we arrange for the most vulnerable people not to suffer? We are rather disappointed in this minister because that is not happening. I calculated yesterday, and I would like the Minister's response to that, that it is real that 50 000 of the currentzzp'ers will become disabled during theirzzp-ship. Because 80% don't have insurance, 40,000 people aren't covered. We find that unacceptable. I would hope the Minister would agree. I'd like to know what he's gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u113	I can mention three concrete things that we are doing. Firstly, we are talking about the bottom of thezzp market, on which we have written in the coalition agreement: people become workers and are protected by social security rights. That's one. The second thing we do in concrete terms when it comes to the zzp'er is the web module: the distinction between who really is an entrepreneur, who really is a self-employed person and who is a fake self-employed person. I believe that GroenLinks and I also agree that we need to clarify that criterion and combat false self-employment. The third point is that I want to increase the level of insurance for the real entrepreneur. That's why I'm talking to the insurance companies. Above all, I want to promote choice and choice, so that people are more likely to make the choice of voluntary insurance. These are three concrete steps aimed at better protecting these sometimes vulnerable groups. I agree with Mr Smeulders. That's why we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u114	The Minister talks about real entrepreneurs who have freedom of choice and who, within that freedom of choice, should rather decide to ensure themselves. That's what the Minister wants to focus on, among other things. But there is no freedom of choice at all. As I pointed out in my first term, the Association of Insurers stated on Radio 1: We only insure people with heavy work for up to 60 years and then they figure it out. People who are 60 and have hard work are simply refused and are not getting that insurance at all. So there is no freedom of choice, nor will there be any freedom of choice if the minister talks with the insurers. We need to organise this freedom of choice with each other. Does the Minister recognise that politics has a responsibility here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u115	Yeah, I recognize that. That's why I'm having these conversations with the insurance companies and I'm trying to fix it. In addition, for the difficult insurable cases, especially for people who cannot be insured for a medical reason, we have a number of relapse options, for example the private safety net policy we have created together, but also the voluntary insurance at the UWV that is accessible for that. So it's not like there's nothing available for that at all. Once again, I see the point that Mr Van Kent addresses. That is why we have written in the coalition agreement that this is a point of attention. That's why we're talking to the insurance companies. That's why we're trying to make entrepreneurs aware of the moment they take out those insurances. That is why these safety net arrangements are also there for people, the burning houses I will say in daily speech use, to ensure that they also have an opportunity to ensure themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u116	Finally, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u117	I think it is very inappropriate to talk about burning houses when we talk about people who want to insure themselves against disability. Anyway, that aside. The minister can sigh, but let's not use those words here when it comes to people. My question was: does the Minister think there is a political responsibility there? By political responsibility, I meant: shouldn't we instruct the UWV to look at it, and there will be some further steps to be taken, whether we can come up with a collective insurance against disability forzzp'ers, so that no one can be refused, everyone is insured until the age of AOW and we are not dependent on conversations between the minister and insurers, insurers who simply want to make profits and do not want to insure people because the risk to that insurer is too great?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u118	The first point is that yesterday, in an interrupting debate between Mr Van Kent and Mr Heerma, we were talking about people who are already disabled and who do not intervene. Then it's all about burning houses in everyday speech. That's what I was referring to. From insurance theory, you can't insure a house that's already on fire. That's what it refers to. It is not about the people who are disabled and in a very difficult situation. That's just to clarify my ruling. I would like to emphasise that. The second point I see is political responsibility. That's where I'm working on actions, talking to insurance companies. Are there also safety net schemes and voluntary insurance at UWV? There are. The point is, and there is a political difference of opinion between Mr Van Kent and myself, the degree of obligation. An acceptance obligation can only be achieved if you also have compulsory insurance. I have just explained this in response to Mr Gijs van Dijk's question yesterday. Otherwise, you get a risk selection in the insurance pool. Then only the bad risks will insure themselves and it will become priceless, even for all those who want to take out insurance. The crucial point is therefore that obligation. That is what we in the coalition agreed with each other that we do not want that. That is why I am working on all these other steps to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u119	The Minister responded to my question, but he misunderstood me, because we also attach great importance to a national collective. The question was: would the Minister be prepared to do so? I just understood from the SP that it sounds like it doesn't, but would it be much better to organize that nationwide?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u120	For me, that is exactly the same question as Mr Van Kent just had. Then it's about compulsory insurance. I'm not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u121	No, I think that's enough change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u122	The point I wanted to emphasise to Mrs Van Brenk is that there are collections that can be started by industry organisations, which also have cost advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u124	For sickness pay and the WIA, many of you asked yesterday. Unfortunately, I cannot say much about this at the moment. Over the last few months, we have had intensive consultations between employers' organisations, as well as employees' organisations, on the payment of wages in the event of illness and the measures in the WIA. Those talks were held for a while when the negotiations on the pension file were intensified. That is why these talks have been delayed. I sent you a note last Monday about this being the case. In the coming period, discussions with employers and employees will continue and hopefully will be concluded. I'm trying to inform you about this before the turn of the year. Yesterday, I also saw the reaction of employers' organisations to pay for sickness. I am very motivated to find an answer to that, because we certainly hear from small SME entrepreneurs from practice that this is a bottleneck when hiring people and offering permanent contracts. In particular, many small employers are looking for an action perspective. How do we deal with people who get sick? How can we prevent all kinds of fines and all kinds of reintegration obligations that we cannot foresee, especially as a small employer? Mr. Chairman. I've been passing through the chunks of the Labour Market Act in balance,zzp and wage payments in case of illness separately now. It is therefore a whole package of measures, which must be considered in conjunction with each other, but which I have linked separately in the development and implementation of each other in order to make it manageable, also legally. They're all part of each other. That is also the point of the Council of State in the further report to the Labour Market Bill in balance. In order to prevent waterbed effects from arising and something popping up somewhere else, we need to look at this in conjunction. Also when does it really go in and is it being implemented? It's part of each other. I would like to briefly consider how these measures have been implemented. Then I can't get around the polder. Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma asked me to reflect on this. Like Mr Wiersma, the former chairman of FNV Jong, I see the great added value of the polder. I also fully agree with the Prime Minister, who said in the pension debate last Tuesday evening that the polder is absolutely not dead. The polder is strong in picking up major themes and finding solutions for this with support. That's what I said in my introduction. But of course it doesn't always work. Unfortunately, we have seen this a number of times in recent years. That is also inevitable when you talk about such complex problems. That is why I have also chosen to see my letter of 15 December last year for a differentiated approach with different routes, in which we will work together with both the traditional polder parties and other social parties, such as the municipalities and Cedris. We have the Secretary of State's broad offensive. Other field parties, such aszzp clubs such as ZZP Nederland and PZO, as well as individual zzp'ers, have also been extensively consulted during the talks about zzp. In other areas, there is consultation with insurers, youth organisations and client councils. Last week I also paid a visit to the collected elderly organisations, senior citizens' organisations, who were meeting in Utrecht to discuss retirement. There is talk of a wide range of parties involved and having an interest. Their input is highly valued. Mr Heerma asked me yesterday if I would like to discuss with the ESC how to better hear the younger generations within the ESC. I think that's a good idea. I'll do that. In consultation with the Economic and Social Committee, I will discuss how youth organisations can get a firmer foothold there. The aim is, of course, to create policies with as much support as possible, with the coalition agreement as a basis, complemented by insights from social partners, municipalities and many other parties. Sometimes this also means that the basis cannot be found. Look at the Labour Market Act in balance and that choices have to be made. That's why the bill is in your room. Finally, in this block a few more specific topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u125	With this, the minister closes the polder block, I think. Well, the polder's never closed. I realize that. That's very good, too. But I just wanted to pick up on what the minister said about fresh blood at the existing tables. He says that young people play an important role in this. I can't help but like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u126	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u127	I also mentioned thezzp'ers in my contribution. The minister says he consulted it extensively. Yeah, okay, I see the field meetings, but my question was a little deeper. It might be more of a question of thought. Would the Minister like to think about how you could givezzp'ers even more of a role at those existing tables?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u128	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u129	Because they're now employees and employers, but thosezzp'ers are actually in between...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u130	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u131	...and on the outside a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yes. I would like to add two sentences. We see that there are a number ofzzp-organisations that are actually insulting the more traditional polder parties. For example, FNV Self-employed workers are more under the umbrella of the FNV. We also seezzp organisations that are completely independent of that and really have a different perspective. And we see a lot of individualzzp'ers who know how to express themselves on social media when it comes to these plans. But more broadly, I'm going to reflect on how that might be possible. With the young people I am a step further, following Mr Heerma's question, but I understand Mr Wiersma's question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u133	I am very pleased with that commitment. That's enough for me for now. I think it's a challenge to make that group feel like they're sitting at that table. I often hear them complaining that decisions are being made for them. So I'm happy with that commitment. I hope the Minister will inform the Chamber when he is ready. I'll leave you to the Minister when he thinks that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u134	Yes, please. Thank you. We'll take notes on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u135	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u136	A number of more specific topics. Indeed, Mr Heerma spoke yesterday about the small self-employed persons with disability insurance, who may be in difficulties due to the rising AOW and retirement age. Then it is indeed about what in insurance theory is called the "burning houses." People were able to take out insurance before 2013 under the Overbridging Scheme AOW, the OBR. We dropped that arrangement. In this morning's written response, I indicated that a broadening of the OBR could not be legal. But I do see the question raised by Mr Van Kent but also by Mr Heerma. I am going to look into this matter more closely. The solutions are not simple and go straight into a complex implementation practice; my predecessor, I think Secretary of State Klijnsma, was already working on that. I would like to go into this a little more in detail to explain why it is so complicated. If you take out insurance, you can choose how many years you do it for, for example, until you're 60. Since you still have a thirsty boner, you still have savings, you make the choice to take out insurance until you're 60. But you can also opt for a policy until your retirement age. As the retirement age rises, insurers will usually be able to renew the contract. The cost will go up. That is, of course, a private consideration for many people. You can choose to do it or not. That decision is also part of the private market. I'll stay out of it, but I think it's fair. I would therefore like to echo Mr Heerma's comment yesterday and Mr Van Kent's comment on the piece in De Telegraaf. So I would like to examine what happens if you are already disabled at the time the retirement age is increased. Again, for the group until 2013, a solution was found in the OBR, but the question is whether or not the increase after that period is covered by the policy, whether or not you still have the possibility to extend it. We also have no idea how many people that has happened in recent years. Can insurers offer a policy in which an increase in the retirement age is covered? If this were complicated for insurers, I would like to know under what conditions such a policy could be possible, because we as a government can do something about it. So I'm gonna take a good look at this. I understand very well Mr Van Kent and Mr Heerma's question. It also feels very unfair. I would like to inform your Chamber of this in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u137	I'm glad the Minister's agreed to continue studying here. I would like to extend it a little further, if the Minister allows it, to the group which was already disabled or already had a pension scheme and, for example, has its own home. The other story in De Telegraaf was about Paul, the construction worker from The Hague; he has a shop in Laak with a value of around €100,000 to €110,000. On that basis, he does not receive welfare benefits. He had a pension scheme that ran up to 65 and then ended up in a financial gap, which, according to him, cost him €17,000. Perhaps this could be extended to the group which, on the basis of these OBR waste race conditions, is not entitled to the OBR and is not entitled to assistance, and is therefore in serious financial difficulties?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u138	I hesitate for a moment, because there may be a mix-up of different arrangements. If you will allow me, I will come back to this specific point in the second term. The first is Mr Heerma's point yesterday: people who already had insurance, have become disabled and fall between shore and ship. What you mean, I think it has more to do with...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u139	But you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u140	Sorry, for the sake of shortness, I shall come back to that in the second term. That is, in particular, about people who have a power test in the welfare system. Well, that's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u141	I am really concerned with the obvious distressing cases, people who, out of blame, have come into the financial problems because they already had an arrangement before the age of AOW was raised, and therefore have fallen into an income gap where there is no right to this bridging scheme. I think it is a relatively small group, but it is a group in which the problems are very poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u142	Clear. The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u143	I'll get back to you. I know it's been a complicated swamp in recent years. That's why I'm a little cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u144	Okay, then Mr. Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u145	The Minister has already given a little room for this in his written reply, but it is good that he wants to take this seriously again. I read the written answer partly with satisfaction because of the fact that at least something is happening, but also partly with irritation because there is also a lot of looking at these insurers. As far as this burning house debate is concerned, when it was about compulsory insurance, the Minister explained that it was a private matter. That goes for the same thing here. That is why I believe that the government has a responsibility to look at the problems of those burning houses. It is very good that the Minister is going to do so. I hope we get something serious early next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u146	I'm definitely gonna do that. One nuanced remark that I was not aware of either and which I heard last night when I was preparing: of course there were people who did change their policy and who paid for it versus people who did not do it and made a choice in it. The question is whether that was a conscious choice, yes or no. That's what makes it very complicated. The remark made yesterday by Mr Heerma about the burning houses, the people who actually no longer have a choice, I heard right. So we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u148	In his contribution, Mr Bruins mentioned the question of displacement, the repression of the labour market. The question is whether domestic labour supply is suppressed by migrant workers. The CPB has recently investigated this together with the SCP. That report was received on 31 October 2018. Mr Jasper van Dijk spoke yesterday about an SEO study; that was from earlier, but on 31 October that CPB study came. This study shows that only some groups at risk who compete most with migrant workers, such as the low-skilled, can be temporarily displaced. This is an important nuance in this discussion: it is often about temporary effects. They can be very painful, you know. They also require instruments to enable people to move to another sector. It is about that kind of consideration, but ultimately the CPB concludes that in the longer term there is work for everyone, both for the people who are already there and for migrant workers. I very much agree with Mr Bruins that it is important to look at unfair competition through unfair cost advantages. For this we have, for example, the Law on False Constructions, but also the discussion on the adaptation of the Detaching Directive and the discussion we are now having in Europe about the ELISA, the European Labour Authority. How will inspections in countries work together to tackle these kinds of structures? But more generally, I am pleased with everyone who works here in the Netherlands and who contributes to society, no matter where the cradle has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u149	I hear the minister say he's willing to look at unwanted constructions. That's actually exactly what I meant yesterday. The report that last looked at possible cost benefits comes from 2014. Since then, we have received the Detaching Directive and yesterday we also concluded in the debate that in theory everything should be locked up now and that there could no longer be any unfair benefits. Do I hear correctly that the Minister is making some kind of commitment that he is prepared to see whether what is theoretically true is also true in practice, so that those unfair cost advantages are now in fact gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u150	I'm going to bend a little, if Mr. Bruins is okay with it. In the coalition agreement, we made 50 million extra available to the inspection SZW, which the Secretary of State will deal with in detail in the near future. Of these, approximately 30 million are reserved for the theme of fair work. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. I'm being souffled by the Secretary of State: two thirds... No, three quarters of that amount is reserved for the theme of fair work. This is precisely about dealing with bogus constructions, unfair situations in the workplace and exploitation. So I think that Mr Bruins is being served at his beck and call, because we all see in this house that we should not want to see any real exploitation and wrong situations. It is about fair pay for fair work and not unfair competitive advantages. That's the way we're gonna try to handle this. Mr Bruins himself made money available for this in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u151	I am aware of the latter. Maybe I will come back to this matter when the Secretary of State is talking to see what the inspection, when it comes to working with increased human power, could tell us what else she might encounter, but what we say in the spirit that we do not want. But I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u152	Fine. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u153	Two more sentences. The Secretary of State and I have recently sent the Chamber an overview of examples of the inspection in practice. I would also like to refer to that, because these are very interesting cases that we are working on. Then develop a lifelong, chairman, a new theme in the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u154	The Minister did not answer a question from me, nor did he answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u155	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u156	I have asked what older job seekers can expect from this minister in small and medium-sized enterprises. The industry says very short-sightedly that it prefers to keep vacancies open rather than adopt a 50-pluser. What can we expect from this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u157	Isn't that in the written set? I did see it last night in the written set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u158	Maybe in the meantime that can be figured out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u160	Then I suggest you move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u161	There is a whole Action Plan Perspective for Fifty-plussers, which we have talked about on a regular basis, but I would like to reflect on this later. Mr. Chairman. Developing the theme for a lifetime... Ah, there's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u162	Yeah, because I think this is the block where this fits best. Some of my questions are in the written set. I will come back to that in second place if I want to tighten something up. On one point, I would like a confirmation here. Did I understand the answers to that? It concerns the arrangements with the Asian catering industry. We're in senior year. Do I understand from the answers that in the last year, in the same way as in the second year, the motion by Mr Ziegs and myself to increase the quota if necessary will be implemented? Is the answer to that question indeed yes? Do I also understand that the Minister says: there will be a successor to the agreement after its expiry in October 2019? And do I understand that he will look at whether, for the structural solution, the German way of working, which is much more general and where you do not have a quota, is a direction that the Minister is going to explore very seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u163	I think I can say yes three times very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u164	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u165	Developing a lifetime. It is an important theme, also for the Chamber. We have had regular discussions about this together with colleague Van Engelshoven of Education. Especially if the labour market is changing and there are shortages in more and more sectors, there must be a culture change that responds to lifelong development and education. For this cabinet, the focus is on its own direction in that development. This applies to everyone, including the elderly, as I would like to add to that towards Mrs Van Brenk. We have recently had a debate on this with Mr Krol. The Krol motion was also adopted in that debate, with the support of Mrs Van Engelshoven and myself. We do this together with social partners, R&D organisations, educational institutions, implementation organisations and many other stakeholders, all of which are very motivated. I think that's a good thing. Everyone sees the importance of this theme. I now turn to a few specific questions, in particular the tax treatment, from Mr Wiersma, Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. In the general consultation on 9 October we discussed this in detail. I also had discussions with the CNV, which is going on with this very specifically, and also with entrepreneurs who are developing it. The current tax regime has a favourable treatment of training activities financed from private individual learning accounts. In other words, no wage charge is paid on money reserved for training in such a private individual learning account. There is still uncertainty among employers, employees and practitioners about tax treatment. This is particularly true if you change employers, so if you go from one employer to another. So I am talking about this with the social partners, but also with the Tax Administration. I sent a letter on this subject, in my view last Monday, also in connection with the discussions, in particular with the CNV, on how we can stimulate this. Sixteen letters were sent on Monday, and this one was included. SZW and Finance are therefore in consultation with each other. In addition, I say to Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma that it is not just about consultation and talking. It's really about pilots. It's about how we start pilots where we can experience what we run into in practice. Of course, there is always a risk of fraud in this type of scheme. How do you prevent fraud but do not create obstacles that actually make the scheme impossible? Quite simply: if you have an individual learning account, it is exempt from wage taxation if you use it for education, regardless of whether you go from one employer to another. That should be the situation. That's what the pilots are about. The tax authorities must also clarify this, throughout the country. Experience has shown that in the North of the Netherlands it was dealt with differently than in the West of the Netherlands. So we are working on that and Finance is also involved. At the end of the first quarter of 2019, I will report to your Chamber on the progress of this work, in particular on the pilots that will hopefully run. Finally, on this point. Mr Van Weyenberg also stressed the importance of more self-direction and training. He is asking for a broader, thorough and more fundamental research into the tax treatment of private learning accounts, at least as I have heard his question. This is in line with the questions put by Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma. I'd be happy to say so. I think it is also interesting for Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma to take a broader look at it and see if there are any alternatives, apart from the pilots we are about to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u166	I have a brief clarifying question. I'm very happy with those pilots. I think they give space to the industries to continue what they are already trying to do. That's what we all want. But then there is the VAT issue, for example at STOOF. When people bring their training budgets, they sometimes have to deal with the VAT issue. The Labour Foundation has also said something about this, namely that the tax administration is tailor-made. But for that, you need to actively seek out the conversation with the IRS. Can't we let the IRS take a little more generic care of the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u167	Can I include that in the research I have just promised Mr Van Weyenberg? I have also been a fiscal spokesman, so I know that this is complicated and that this also leads to discussions on the VAT directives and implementation problems. Let me take it with me in that broader investigation. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u168	Thanks, that sounds good to me. Only this is something that is now playing and which branches are now running into. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he could speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u169	I do not want to raise false expectations; let me be honest about that. Also with the other governments, the municipalities and provinces, we have long discussions about VAT. We even set up a VAT compensation fund to compensate for this. This isn't easy, but I'm gonna look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u170	A brief question, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u171	I welcome that commitment. I will come forward with a motion, which I believe will be very broadly signed in the second term, to frame what we want. I'd like to put an exclamation mark behind what my colleague Wiersma says. I understand very well how complicated it is, but in practice there are many initiatives here that can make a difference to which inspector you speak. I think that's something we all don't want in taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u172	Agreed. That's what the IRS finds difficult. That is why we have agreed with Finance that this is being made right at national level and that we are joining the pilots, because we should not get any difference between the North Netherlands and the West Netherlands. So I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u173	Then we'll go to work and care, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u174	No, not yet: education at the WW. I have taken other forms of education with me on the subject of lifelong development. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma asked questions about the state of play of the education budget in connection with the Van Weyenberg motion. From last year. And indeed, the use of the budget is lagging behind. This has partly to do with the fact that it started on 1 July of this year, but I find it annoying; let me just put it that way. I also share the concerns of the Chamber that it is left behind. The scheme does not seem to work optimally, because the need for training is high, we hear from the practice. Mr Wiersma had the example of Donny's plastering school yesterday. I think these are justified comments. Together with the UWV, I want to look at how we can improve our use, for example by promoting the opportunities for training more actively. I will also take a critical look at whether I can adapt the scheme so that the UWV can give more customization or space where necessary to match that training needs. I therefore also respond to yesterday's appeal from various spokesmen. I find Mr Wiersma's idea of customization for the UWV in the training of WW'ers very sympathetic. This also means that I actually have to adapt constantly to the practice and to new situations that we see in practice. In a moment I will go further on his other point, because I see Mr Van Weyenberg at the interrupting microphone. But that's up to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u175	Very briefly, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u176	You haven't seen much of me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u177	Well, from 10:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u178	Sure, but I meant on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u179	Also.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u180	It's good to see you. My question to the Minister is as follows. He says he's going to take a critical look at the scheme we set up last year. Can it be better brought to the attention of the public and is there also more customization possible? Do I understand him correctly that he is going to make sure that, for example, sometimes, if the funds allow it, and I think that is so that we can grant it a little faster or a higher amount? Are those really the things he's gonna look at? When's the room gonna hear about this? I would be sorry to hear at the end of the scheme that a great deal has remained on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u181	The first is yes. Yes, it's about customization. It may be that we expand the scheme and also that we put the professional of the UWV more in position. I'll come back to the timing. There are a lot of conversations with UWV about personal services, for example. I'll send another letter to the Chamber soon. We can see if we can take it in there. There's nodding, so it's gonna be December or January. Right? Yeah, that's about it, although some people are getting some sort of scare reaction right now. Let's see, where was I? I was in favour of Mr Wiersma's proposal to use part of the WW benefit for training. There was an interruption debate in the Chamber yesterday. That really is a fundamental change to the WW system, namely that you could, as it were, move with individual rights. The WW is, of course, a collective insurance policy. I believe that this was also reflected yesterday in the debate yesterday between Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma. There is therefore no question of an individual game or an individual drawing right on the WW. The WW is intended to provide income support for involuntary unemployment. It seems complicated to me to finance training in this way, but I do see Mr Wiersma's point about customization, so to speak. Because that's also where it's about direction and customization. There's something about that. If you pay money from a benefit earlier by spending it on education, you also have a deadweight loss in economic terms. You actually pay out a period of benefit that might not otherwise be used. But I do understand Mr Wiersma's intention. I like that one, too. I am prepared to think along and to examine the advantages and disadvantages of his proposal, bearing in mind the comments made yesterday in the Chamber. How are you gonna make more customization possible? So if Mr Wiersma is satisfied with that, I will say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u182	Let me ask you a question. The Minister is right that this is a collective provision. So we're not gonna use the WW as an ATM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u183	No, but in a broader sense this is about Donny's example of yesterday's plasterer by Mr Wiersma. He actually had a job guarantee, so if you gave him a little more space, he'd be out of the WW very soon. Those are interesting examples for me and beckoning perspectives. This can be done through training budgets. It can be done through last year's amendment or motion. It might also be possible to handle the WW rights creatively if people choose to do so voluntarily. That seems to me to be a condition and that is how I understood Mr Wiersma. But there are also disadvantages and I would like to name them. The payment of rights could have negative effects that could also be costly. So the question is what is effective. But I understand Mr Wiersma's intention and I want to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u184	It's a collective insurance we all pay for. So I really want to call on the Minister to be very careful with that. As far as we are concerned, he does not receive any support for this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u185	That's what I'd think. I think it is fine that Mr Van Dijk wants people at the UWV to walk up against walls. I don't want that. I appreciate the Minister's saying that there are different ways of getting people to work sooner and better. We should all be able to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u186	Mr. Wiersma, it's a debate with the Minister now. For discussion among yourselves, you had all day yesterday, so I'm going to see the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u187	Yeah, I'm a little desperate right now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u188	I responded to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u189	Yesterday was the first term of office. There was also the opportunity to question each other and discuss each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u190	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The Minister asks me, if I interpret it this way, is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u191	Okay, then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u192	I'm happy with this quest. I also see, as the Minister says, that the reactions in the Chamber are different. We've seen that. I think that's very good. In my opinion, that just means that you need to see how you can make this fit in with the customization that people ask of the UWV. That's what I'm asking. I think that's what the Minister wants to do. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u193	You made that clear. Mr Gijs van Dijk wants to respond now, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u194	Well, I have a point of order. We're debating with the minister, not each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u195	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u196	Here I give my party's opinion on how the WW works. Mr Wiersma is free to do the same. But it is really very faint and low to call it "old thinking" through an interruption. At least I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u197	This is exactly why I say that the debate should have taken place yesterday. Mr. Van Kent, do you have a nice comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u198	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u199	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u200	Compliment to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u201	Look, I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u202	It shouldn't get any crazier, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u203	From the SP!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u204	...that in the first instance he skilfully punctured the VVD's test balloon. That's a compliment. That's what I started with, Mr. Chairman. After that I started to doubt a little, because I got the impression that there is still some room and that the Minister is willing to look again. Does this mean that if the SP makes proposals, we can also be covered by the General Unemployment Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u205	Now, of course, Mr Wiersma wants to respond. No, don't you have to? That's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u206	The point is that the Minister does not rule out the possibility of using the General Unemployment Fund for possible proposals or ideas from parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u207	You surprise me a little with this question. I don't think there's any cost-covering premium at the AWf, if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u208	The VVD makes a proposal here in the Chamber and finds cover for it in the WW jars. At least that's what the VVD is proposing. The minister first shut the door but later said that there can still be a look. If the Minister is so flexible in this respect, can the SP make proposals in future and cover them from the WW jars?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u209	Perhaps Mr Wiersma could explain exactly what he meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u210	Apparently there are parties that close the door in advance to help people get to work faster and better through the UWV. I'm sorry to hear that. I have ideas for that. I call on the Minister to think about it. He says he's gonna do that. I'm happy about that. In my opinion, we can only hope that there will be better opportunities at the UWV to help people with more tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u211	I'm going to see Mrs. Van Brenk. But first, the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u212	I have already indicated in my speech that I have doubts about this. I see the point Mr Wiersma made in his speech. Suppose someone can get a job guarantee if he is in a certain training course; is it possible to obtain money for that? I think that's an interesting question. On the other hand, I am right to ask whether this is an efficient way of achieving this. It's actually about monetaryizing, or making cash, benefits rights. But in practice we see that a lot of people, fortunately, are already flowing out of the WW before the end of their benefit period. That's a trade-out we need to map out. Then what are we talking about? There are other instruments, such as the current training ads. I would like to add that, unfortunately, they are not being used enough and that too little tailor-made work can be offered at the moment. So are there any alternatives? But that is exactly how I heard Mr Wiersma. I appreciate the creative search for ways to anchor this. The training ads are also temporary money. Last year's motion was about 30 million in three years. I find it interesting to see what works and what doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u213	I'm glad the minister's gonna look at this, but as far as we're concerned, it's not in the WW. For us, it really matters. With such an income provision, there may be a difference in class. Someone who's rich and gets a lot more can handle that a little easier. I really hope that the Minister is very critical of this and is very careful about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u214	Oh, yeah. I handle it very carefully and critically. I do not think it is the right way to go, as Mrs Van Brenk is putting it, but I do find it interesting to take a look at it. Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma drew attention to the training of staff in practice. There are many opportunities for teaching in the workplace. There are a number of inspiring examples that have been reviewed more often, such as the Friesland College and the Techniekfabriek. I would also like to mention the Technics Pact and the approach to health shortages. As a government, we encourage education and business to invest more in training. Those are good initiatives that deserve real follow-up. With the regional investment fund, the minister of OCW, Mrs Van Engelshoven, supports public-private partnerships between education and industry. The Minister of OCW is currently examining the various possibilities and obstacles surrounding business schools, including at the request of Mr Wiersma, and she will inform the Chamber in 2019. To develop this in response to the debate on 9 October on a lifetime, in which a combination of these two approaches is actually chosen. Mr Wiersma further asked whether, in addition to the use of the UWV, specific training resources could be used through the SME academies to train people in SMEs. The training resources of the UWV are really intended for job seekers with a high risk of long-term unemployment, and I would like to focus on that with more customization and flexibility. I therefore want to keep the budget for this target group. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that the money is used to the full. Then there is the amendment by the CDA and the VVD on the continuation and extension of the Craft Academy. This was indeed an initiative by Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Heerma in which I could be the lucky one to open the academy in the third week of my ministry. I'm very positive about it. I really like the initiative and I hear a lot of positive reactions. There have been a lot of applications for the Craft Academy for which there was not enough money. I will deal with the amendments tabled later, but I can already say that I think this is a very positive amendment and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u215	I had spent a fairly large part of my input on this block. I have two separate questions that I cannot push into one question. The first relates to regional initiatives. The risk of this kind of thing is always that there is a "not invented here"-like atmosphere and that good initiatives are not linked to other good initiatives. Will the Minister undertake to take an active part in this type of local initiative, regardless of the money at OCW, on when there are local initiatives of this kind and which are national, so that there is also an active look at how to contribute to it? I am not just talking about the Academy of Crafts but also about the Van Weyenberg and others amendment. It is important to look actively at how these regional initiatives can be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u216	At the same time, I am talking to the Secretary of State, because this fits very well with the matching-to-work approach and with the approach to regional labour market regions. So yes, in this triangle we are excited about that. We also work together with OCW in the framework of this regional approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u217	I'm happy with this approach. At the same time, I have seen too many times in my years as a Member of Parliament that in practice things are different. So I would very much like the commitment of both directors to get a letter somewhere in the coming months, in the next six months, explaining how this type of regional initiative can be implemented and what national regulations can contribute to it in practice. These are good examples which may be taken over afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u218	I'd be happy to say so. The Secretary of State is now whispering to me that a fine example is the Health Pact of Education and VWS. So I'm happy to admit it. That was the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u219	That's good, right? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u220	This was very good, but that was only my first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u221	That's what I thought. The second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u222	We're gonna see if we can score two out of two in this case. On this second point, I had doubts as to where I would raise it. We always get written answers to questions. There was also the point of the DWSRA, on which the Minister wrote in two letters. My question was linked to the Academy of Crafts. Here too, we are talking about initiatives which are ongoing and which are being phased out while the evaluation has not yet been carried out. I understand the Minister's answer that there is a difference because it is not a government initiative but an initiative from the polder and that it is different from the Craft Academy. I understand that very well. At the same time, I would also find it a shame if very good initiatives were brought to a close, and we conclude: it was fantastic, we are going to start again. So what I would like the Minister to do here is to talk to interested parties in the polder about initiatives that are so good and so promising that they will be looked at that they will not be reduced but will continue, and that the Minister will be committed to doing so. I am not asking for money; I am asking for a commitment, but at least the conversation must be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u223	Obviously. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u224	Let's peel it off. There was one-off money available, also on the basis of the intention that social partners would pick this up structurally if it worked properly. The example of the Academy of Crafts, which Mr Heerma himself comes with, also indicates that the good examples reach this Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u225	It's very restless in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u226	... and are also brought to our attention. So I have confidence in the own strength of people at sectoral level that the good initiatives will end up with us anyway, that we will be able to reflect on that again. But I am also very pleased with Mr Heerma's nuance. Don't ask for money, because I don't have it, but I'm just looking to see if we can get an overview of what really promising initiatives are towards the end of these routes. I'm gonna take a look at the benches there, too. There's a nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u227	Okay. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u228	Thank you for this opening, and I think it is very important when we get it. Because if we get something promising by the end of 2019 that was finished in early 2019, I think it is too late. So I'd prefer that in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u229	I have to come back to that in second place. I don't know what's going on and what's going on and what's already in the evaluations and in the reviews. I need to... Older people and newcomers, the block in here. Mrs Van Brenk did indeed pay a great deal of attention yesterday to the position of older people in the labour market. So this is in my oral set and wasn't in my written set because he's in here. As I have already said, there are many sectors where there is a shortage. This creates a lot of opportunities for people to get back to work, with the Perspective for Fifty-plussers trajectory that has already started by my predecessor. This is indeed aimed at improving the position of over 50 people on the labour market. A little nuance. SMEs in the Netherlands had indeed said that very employers are too short-sighted because there is indeed a wrong picture of older workers. About 35% of the 55-plussers in the WW will also find work within a year, fortunately, so they also flow out. This is due, among other things, to the support of the job seeker 50+, the creation of meetings between job seekers and employers, by investing in employability and training, and also by investing in this image among employers. This is the SME point: the wrong image of many employers when it comes to older workers. These measures will continue in 2019 and the evaluation will be sent to your Chamber in early 2020. I get a lot of positive messages about Development Advice 45+. Mr Wiersma asked about this yesterday. The use of the development advice unfortunately lags behind what I would like to see. We had created a budget for this, which has not yet been fully used. But what comes out of reactions is very positive. People are really gonna think about it: how am I gonna get a healthy retirement age? At the moment, we are trying to bring this to the fore and thus to roll out more widely. Communication is being improved and I also intend to offer a wider audience, so that more people can use it and fit it more into practice. The Secretary of State has recently sent your Chamber a letter on improving regional employers' services and making job seekers more transparent. Mr Wiersma asked if I would like to talk to social partners about alternative forms of re-starting jobs. There was an interruption debate on that too yesterday. I also saw the press release of the FNV, which responded right away. I see that Mr Gijs van Dijk indicates that he has not yet seen this, but his reaction was in line with the reaction of the FNV. But I would also like to express what Mr Wiersma said: the CNV had a different reaction. So you can; there are different sounds in the polder. I think that new forms of cooperation are positive. So I'm gonna see how the social partners feel about this. With regard to newcomers, the Secretary of State will discuss the discussion about the language requirement and the oldcomers. But yesterday Mr Heerma specifically asked me to take more account of the need to lead people who live in society to work. I very much agree with that. That is the starting point of the plan and of the policy. Through, among other things, an individual Plan Integration and opportunities for participation and volunteering, we hope to get people active in the labour market as soon as possible and to have the language learn and participate in Dutch society as soon as possible. At the same time, I also find out what Dutch people with a migration background and status holders are helping. This is about the approach to further integration in the labour market, which includes some explorations of Somalis and Eritreans in the assistance. There is often a multi-problem: there are not only the distance from the labour market, but also various problems in this group. There we will focus on active learning pathways and more intensive guidance, including by municipalities, for those vulnerable groups. The Secretary of State will look more closely at the language requirement and the consideration: non-binding agreements with the municipality, as stated in the government agreement. She also addresses the large groups in the welfare system. Mr. Chairman. Work and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u230	I'd like to speed up a little. Because the Minister has been speaking for almost two hours now. He has now dealt with three major issues, but we still have five topics on the list. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u231	I had another question at the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u232	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u233	Sure. My question is about company schools. We can see that SMEs in particular are struggling to find good staff, but also that there are sometimes a lot of large companies in the region that could be helpful in this respect. I went to VDL Nedcar the other day, and to Tata Steel. There are a lot of such companies that are now trying to play that role in the environment, but that may be too little. Would the Minister also be willing to see how we could stimulate this movement, so that people in SMEs can be trained through better cooperation with large companies and companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u234	I'm just having second thoughts. Was this not also recently asked by the Minister of OCW, by a motion from Mr Wiersma himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u235	That's a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u236	No, not this. I asked what kind of corporate schools there are already. This is actually more about the call of SMEs: I find it difficult to get to the good people and I do not have the facilities to train them, but in the area there are large companies that do and that are doing so more and more often. But I'd love it if we could make that move bigger, and I'll ask the Minister if he'd like to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u237	May I be pragmatic and record this with the colleague of OCW? She has used all this movement to map out what the business schools are and where they are, how it works and where you could also play a regional role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u238	Has this question not already been asked in the first period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u239	Oh, then I'm badly prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u240	No, it's not that bad. But the Minister proposes to include it with the Minister of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u241	If, as a result of Mr Wiersma's motion, OCW is already carrying out research and has committed itself to doing so, then I think it is a special feature of the question. So we can let them go along with that. I think the question is correct. It's not like I'm rejecting this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u242	Would you please come back to that in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u243	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u244	Okay. Then, in connection with the suspension, I would like to know how long you think you need for the next subject, work and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u245	I don't think for long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u246	What's "not very long"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u247	Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u248	Then I suggest you handle that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u249	Luckily, the Law introducing extra birth leave, the Cradle, is a beautiful name; still compliments to the people who invented it... accepted both in the Lower Chamber and in the Upper Chamber, fortunately also with very broad support. From January 1st we take the first step: five days of birth leave. The following year, i.e. 1 January 2020, will be six weeks, with the first week being paid in full and 70% paid in the other five weeks. I think that is so important, because it really contributes to a stronger labour market position for women. In addition, we are focusing on an awareness campaign, on the tax review, on investment in childcare and on combating labour market discrimination. So we are making considerable progress, but there is still a way forward when it comes to equality between men and women in the labour market. We also announced an inter-departmental policy study on part-time work and the removal of part-time barriers by spring 2019, in particular in order to strengthen the position of women in the labour market. On the subject of work and care, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg asked for leave for care. Why is there little use of it now, as it seems? In particular, it concerns working carers who combine a hard day's work with care in the rush hour of life. There are several rules for carers, one of which is care leave. As Mr Smeulders rightly pointed out, the use of care leave in the Netherlands is on the low side, although like Mr Van Weyenberg I do not rule out the possibility that employers and employees can arrange this in a different, perhaps more informal way by taking leave or by combining days off and unpaid leave. We do know from research that not all working carers need paid leave. That is also an interesting aspect. The admission of leave is therefore not an end in itself. The majority of the carers working on the job are in particular in need of understanding in the workplace and can, through greater flexibility in the allocation of their working days, be better able to coordinate the tasks. Nevertheless, I think this is an important issue to better map. I would be happy to identify the function of nursing leave for carers. I will also look into what is known about informal agreements between employer and employee in practice, in order to get a better picture of this discussion in the workplace. I'll inform the Chamber about that image in mid-2019. That is a promise. Mr Stoffer is not here. In his defense, he told me that he's been at MIRT's notebook all day. So I don't blame him at all. I think it is right that I should answer his question about mourning leave, also because people are listening. We also discussed this in the treatment of the Cradle. I indicated at that time that the Ministry of SZW did research into the funeral leave in 2011. The researchers advised against recording mourning leave in legislation, because it is often an individual process. While one employee is unable to get back to work quickly, the other employee is very much in need of being back in a normal routine. We already did that research in 2011. I see no reason to do that again, because this information is already available. And I therefore believe that a uniform legal regime for mourning leave would not be sufficient to respond to the specific situation of many people. This was labor and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u250	Because Mr Stoffer himself cannot respond on my part to another question for further clarification. If I heard Mr Stoffer correctly, he is not necessarily talking about an arrangement and not about paid leave, but purely about the right of workers to take a time-out, unpaid, just to stay away, perhaps a day or two. It's purely about justice. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u251	I do not know whether Mr Bruins interprets Mr Stoffer well. In fact, he tabled a motion in the course of the examination of the Cradle in order to allow for legal leave of mourning. I'm sorry, what did Mr Van Weyenberg say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u252	No, Mr Van Weyenberg did not have the floor. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u253	My question is therefore whether Mr Bruins interprets Mr Stoffer correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u254	Mr. Bruins, what would Mr. Stoffer have meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u255	I am curious to see what Mr Bruins is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u256	Great! We're sitting next to each other. We're neighborhoods here in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u257	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u258	Let me put it another way: what if Mr Stoffer meant that it was purely about the right to unpaid time-out in times of mourning? Would the Minister be willing to see if there's anything possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u259	I wonder whether this is really necessary, given all the leave arrangements we already have, calamity leave, care leave and all other forms of leave, as well as the fact that there is a lot of flexibility in practice; people can take holidays, for example. We did the research in 2011, and I see no reason to do it again now or to expand it or to create legal opportunities for it. Excuse Mr. Stoffer through Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u260	Indeed, I understood it so that Mr Stoffer now said: apart from the payment, from money, is the right there? Did that research, which has been done before and which I don't have in detail for the glasses, also look at how things are going for people at that grieving stage? Do all employers actually give it to you yet, don't they? If there's footage of that, I'd find it interesting to get it. That can also be done at a later date, in second term. How often is it said no, for example? I would consider that relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u261	It was carried out in 2011 by the investigating agency AStri. In the suspension, we'll go over it and see what's in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u262	Moreover, it is remarkable to see that when a Member of Parliament is not present, his questions are dealt with in detail. Maybe it's... Very constructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u263	Next thing you know, it's an incentive for MPs to stay away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u264	I wasn't gonna say that! Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u265	I think everyone should try to be in this Chamber during important debates. But I also think this is a very important debate, so that I can understand it. I liked this sign of Chamber Collegiality, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u266	That's what it's meant to be, very positive, Mr. Van Weyenberg. We have come to the subject of work and care. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u267	I suggest we suspend until 1 p.m. Then we'll start with the arrangement of work and then we'll move on. The subject that will then be discussed is old age and pensions. That is a subject that I think will take a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u268	I think so too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u269	Thank you. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m.
