ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u1	We continue with the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the examination of the bill 34854 Repeal of the Advisory referendum Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin with a perhaps reassuring opinion: that parliamentary democracy was there even before 2014, when the consultative referendum was introduced, so I do not think that our entire democracy will roll over if it is withdrawn. Parliamentary democracy is not a trick that you can just introduce, but it is an arty structure that has been carefully built up. The foundation is the Constitution, and the structure consists of a set of laws. That arty structure is never finished. There is always a part in the scaffolding, sometimes for large maintenance, sometimes because a piece has to be added. The builders are carefully selected and enter into consultation on each part of the building. And every once in a while, something needs to be demolished. Not haphazardly with a demolition hammer, but the builders themselves are supposed to carefully remove the misses of the past and repair damage. This now seems to be the subject of this Law repealing consultative referendum. Today, the builders in this Chamber are making their move. This is a matter of extreme care. Therefore, first a few thoughts on referenda. The SGP considers that referendums, in whatever form, constitute a strange duck within the state system. Representative democracy must not be crossed by elements of direct democracy. After all, our state system is based on representative representation by election. This gives the electorate a mandate to the elected representatives of the people. But through a referendum they give back the mandate for a moment. Or so it seems, but of course it isn't. In this sense, the damage has been limited to a consultative referendum. A given advice can easily be ignored. We've seen some examples of that. I'll get back to you later. For the moment, I agree with the words of my predecessor Gerrit Holdijk on 11 March 2014 during a debate on the state of the rule of law: "A representative democracy does not mean that the people, but the people, are governed." Having said that, I would like to congratulate the government parties on the brilliant idea of repealing the Advisory referendum Act and, of course, the government with the speed with which it has taken up this idea. But, in the meantime, especially in this Chamber of reflection, we must take account of what we have done, for the sake of teaching and vermaeck. First of all, because of the possibility of a referendum, the legislative process comes into a kind of cramp over and over again, about three months before the date of 1 January and 1 July. Then it was suddenly the highest emergency. And that's not good. Next, what do we learn from the two held referendums? The first, about the Ukraine Treaty, seems like a big joke, conceived at the editorial table of GeenStijl. That trick was repeated by giving the Intelligence and Security Services Act an insinuating name, namely "Drag Act." By the way, the turnout in this referendum was quite good, because the citizens were already coming to the polls. Finally, there was the third attempt, around the Donor Registration Act, with hanging and strangling through the two Chambers. Finally, a subject that is of direct concern to every citizen, because that affects everyone so personally. If citizens had to find something, they'd find something of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr Schalk just said that the turnout in the Drag Act referendum was quite good, because citizens had to or went to the ballot box anyway, but now the turnout in those municipalities where there were no municipal elections was over 30%. Mr Schalk didn't like the turnout?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u5	I did not look at the exact numbers of the municipalities where there were no municipal elections in connection with the municipal reclassification, so I do not think that was exactly tens of percent less, but at least it was over 30%. If it was, it would have been enough, because that's what the law says. I was just saying that if citizens had to find something, which is of the Donor Registration Act, you could say, but apparently the citizens didn't even get up in their desks to click on www.hartfordemocracy or something like that three times. Interesting to know why. You could say a joke only works once or twice. In the third round, the citizens don't like it anymore. Well, in that case, it's fine that we quit. A second possibility is that citizens themselves are aware that you cannot rule by referendum. In that case, the citizens will also teach us a lesson: let us listen carefully to them. The third option is that the first two referenda have only provoked disappointment: "so," the citizen says, "forget it. They" "politics The Hague" "don't do anything about it." In that case, this means quite a lot, especially in the context of confidence that citizens should or should have in politics. In this light two questions. Now that this way of involving citizens in politics has failed, does the government see other ways of involving citizens more and more in political decision-making? Does the Minister wish to reflect on the developments surrounding the Climate Act, where seven parties outside the parliamentary discourse confront citizens with almost fulfilled facts? In any case, this repeal law is now before us. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is still wondering why the government is giving citizens an extra tap by not having a referendum on this law of withdrawal by means of retroactive action. Why is the government giving this extra tap? What is the government afraid of? I see only two options. The first: there will be no 300,000 signatures. Ready. Or: there's gonna be 300,000 signatures. Have a referendum, two more options. The first is: we are in favour of the withdrawal. Then you're done. Or: we're against the withdrawal. Then the cabinet can do the same as with the two previous referenda, namely nothing. Then you're done. This is all the more pressing in view of the opinion of the Council of State, which usually gives its opinion in no uncertain terms. In this case, the Council of State says "legally effective." That is the thinst formulation I have seen so far: legally effective. How does the government indicate this wording? This question has also been submitted to a range of experts. Listening carefully, two things remained with me: it is possible, but it is not neat. How does the government view this expert opinion? For my group, it was in any case a reason to refer to the Good Governance Code in the written input. We know the items: openness and integrity, participation, proper contacts with citizens, targeted and effective, legitimacy, learning and self-cleaning ability, and accountability. But the government's response was a bit disconcerting. In a nutshell, I read in a few parts: "The cabinet has been open from the outset and has clarified its intention to abolish the referendum instrument." In the case of participation: "Participation means listening to questions and ideas. The cabinet responded to signals, and considered that the objections to the consultative referendum outweigh the benefits and should lead to the repeal of the law." And so it goes on and on on all the items. If the Code of Good Governance is used in this way, then I think it would be wise to work hard on the withdrawal Code of Good Governance. Can the Minister give a real reflection, but from the perspective that citizens can expect? For example on the item openness or on participation? This was all the more so during the period when there was a kind of race between holding or not holding a referendum on the Donor Registration Act and the Revocation Act. On behalf of my group, I asked questions about the right of transition and in the reply of 9 May the Minister indicated that Article VI...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u6	Article IV says Roman, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u7	Article VI Roman. ...the right of transition is well regulated...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u8	I think it's Article IV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u9	That's possible, but my play says VI. And these are my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u10	Only the spoken word applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u11	Sure. ... the transitional right regulates well, and: "The First Chamber decides on the further examination of the proposal." This made the First Chamber a kind of referee in a competition. And you know, referees always do it wrong. The reason for me to raise this issue in the College of Seniors and in the Home Affairs Committee. This was about the prestige of this Supreme Court. The Minister indicated that there is currently no political basis for a binding referendum. She writes literally: "Now that the binding referendum as the intended final goal is provisionally out of sight, the Cabinet considers that the Advisory referendum Act should not be maintained as an independent referendum tool." Excellent conclusion. But what if the Remkes State Commission comes again with a binding referendum? Can the SGP Group simply assume that the cabinet will not take and support initiatives aimed at a binding referendum as an independent means of referendum? I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u12	I call Mrs Lokin-Sassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the proposal to repeal the consultative referendum. We have organised an expert meeting on this subject in this Chamber and had three written deadlines in order to arrive at an independent and independent decision as carefully as possible. I would like to begin with a brief historical review of the progress of the Advisory referendum Act, which is now in the process of repealing it. The Wrr had a long history before it had to say it on March 26, 2015: it was difficult to reach the finish line here. It was submitted to the House of Representatives at the end of November 2005 as an initiative proposal 30372 and finally took about ten years to get the Official Journal. This proposal was intended by the proposers to provide an optional "unobligatory" "consultative," i.e., at the request of a number of citizens "advisory" "consultative" "not binding" "corrective" legislative referendum." The purpose of the law was to allow for a ruling by electoral citizens in which the legislator is advised to reconsider a law already accepted by both chambers. A request to the legislator to reconsider the homework that has just been done. There are two options: either the law does not enter into force, or the law does enter into force. The outcome of such a consultative referendum is explicitly not binding, as the initiators themselves have stressed once and again. That is precisely why they had not included an obligation to vote in their initial proposal. A second own-initiative proposal was also the subject of an assessment at the time, namely the proposal to amend the Constitution, in order to include the possibility of an optional, advisory and decisive legislative reference. A referendum that would bind the legislator would require a constitutional review. Both legislative proposals, although submitted separately at the time, were dealt with in the First Chamber. During the plenary session of the consultative, non-binding referendum, this proposal threatened to die in the First Chamber. It was finally saved because the initiators made a commitment to include both an entry threshold and a horizon clause in their original proposal by means of a repair proposal. The horizon clause ensured that the Advisory referendum Act would automatically lapse as soon as a decisive legislative referendum was incorporated into the Constitution. This has deliberately established a link between the legislative proposal for a consultative referendum and the constitutional proposal for a decisive referendum, a link which was indeed not originally intended by the initiators. On 8 April 2014, the initiators fulfilled their commitment: the repair proposal 33934 was submitted by them on 14 May 2014 and accepted by both Chambers. Both the Advisory referendum Act and the Repair Act were published in the Official Journal on 26 March 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u14	You say there's a link between both laws, but what does that link actually mean? What effect does that clutch have? Would you mind explaining that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u15	I don't have to explain. You've already done a good job. I agree with your explanation and with that of the SP that this link does not necessarily mean that the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act is necessary if the final view of a decisive referendum is no longer present. But that does not mean that the repeal of this law would not be a good idea. I hope I'll explain that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u16	In any case, it is not an argument for legal reasons to justify the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u17	Not necessarily, no, not necessarily. The initiative legislative proposal for constitutional revision was also accepted at first reading in both chambers and previously published in October 2014, i.e. separately from the other two. Less fortunate was the proposal for a second reading of the Constitutional Reform. The initiative Constitutional proposal, submitted by Van Raak, was defeated in November 2017 in the Lower House. In doing so, the prospect of a decisively corrective legislative referendum enshrined in the Constitution has disappeared, not to say gone beyond the horizon, and the horizon clause added to the repair law, without which the same law would not have been accepted, has also disappeared beyond the horizon itself. The interim report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System puts another mark on the horizon by pleading for a decisive legislative referendum. However, what that should or could look like is still unmistakable and shrouded in the mists of the horizon. A constitutional review will take years to come. The state committee is very reluctant in its terms. All things considered, I quote the State Committee on page 55.... does not want the State Committee to rule out the possibility of giving the public the opportunity to decide on a specific law. This corrective referendum, in the view of the State Committee, is not so much a weakening in sensible and cautious use as a strengthening of representative democracy. The Dutch citizens are very pleased with representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u18	Madam President, may I ask through you whether the CDA Group is quoting what has just been quoted by the State Committee with approval or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u19	I can't say a sensible word about that. We await the final proposals, but we look forward to them with great interest. We will study them very openly and in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u20	I expected nothing but the CDA Group to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thanks for the compliment. The applicants themselves argued at that time once and again that the legislator has, of course, the full right not to follow this result in the event of an advisory, non-decisive, corrective legislative referendum, in which the result invites rejection of the law. The only duty imposed on the legislator by the Wrr is, I repeat, to reconsider the law. There is no obligation to change the law or not to allow it to enter into force after a negative consultative referendum. And there he is, Madam President. The terms "consultative" and "consultative" have an ambiguous meaning. The meaning of the term "consultative" in the title of the law is ambiguous. The expert meeting showed that the experts themselves only interpreted the word "consultative" and only referred to it as: from the bottom up, from the population, initiated by the citizens, as opposed to consultative referenda, which are written from above, by the government. But, Madam President, these concepts of consultative and consultative have a second meaning, namely that of advisory, not decisive, not binding. In that last sense, I used the concept of consultation at the time, which gave me a reprimand from my honourable colleague, Mr De Graaf. In practice, however, the latter meaning of "advising," "not decisive," has already disappeared into the background. In fact, if the legislator, after reconsidering, decides not to respond to the outcome of a referendum to which he himself is fully entitled under the law, then he is accused of not listening to the voice of the people. After all, the electorate, especially those who voted against, went to that ballot box for nothing, at least that is how they perceive it, and rightly so. The voters, especially those who have come to the ballot box to vote for or against a referendum, therefore expect the legislator to comply with the result of a negative referendum. But the latter is only possible after constitutional revision. The legislator is also obliged to comply with the Constitution and that constitutional reform was just rejected in the House of Representatives at the end of last year. This is the dilemma laid down in the Advisory referendum Act itself, which cannot be resolved, not even by amending this law, as long as no constitutional review of a decisive referendum has been achieved. To say it with the words of Portalis, the most important designer of the Civil Code, from his Discours préliminaire on the Code: "Faut-il ajouter la corruption des lois à celle des hommes? (...) Quand les abus ne sont que l'ouvrage des passions, ils peuvent être corrigés par les lois; mais quand ils sont l'ouvrage des lois, le mal est incurable, parce qu'il est dans le remède même." I know I don't have to translate it, but I'm doing it anyway: "Do we have to add to the corruption of people who are under the laws? (...) If the abuses are only the work of the resin quests, then they can be corrected by the laws, but if they are the work of the laws themselves, then evil cannot be healed, because it is in the medicine itself." By the death in second reading of the Constitutional proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr Van Hattem, in French please!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u23	I'm not gonna risk it. I'd rather be in Latin. But isn't this quote perfectly applicable to the retroactive effect contained in this bill, which is actually abusing a legal provision that shouldn't be included and used improperly? Because that's what this French philosopher of law pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u24	Portalis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u25	This interruption is coming a little early, because I am going to go into retroactivity in a moment. You'll be served at your beck and call, I'll say. The second reading of the Constitutional proposal has created a new situation and changed the circumstances, so that a review of the Advisory referendum Act itself is appropriate. The government has done so and decided on the current bill, repealing the Advisory referendum Act. My group can justify this, as the dilemma in the Advisory referendum Act is no different from a constitutional revision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u26	Mrs Lokin now points out that, following the collapse of the Constitutional Review, the government held a second round review of the Advisory referendum Act and that this bill is therefore now on the table. But that's not the historically correct order, is it? Even before the binding referendum died in the Lower House, the government had set out its intention in the government agreement to repeal the Advisory referendum Act, entirely independently of the course of that other discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u27	That is correct, but then you must ask the government and not me. For the CDA group here in the First Chamber, a new situation has arisen after the alignment of the Constitutional Reform proposal. We haven't been involved in...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u28	The CDA-Second parliamentary group had already committed itself before that time, but you would never have done that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u29	I don't know, I'm not saying that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u30	Through the chairman, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u31	But now, apparently, a new situation has arisen for the CDA Group and this is the result of its further argumentation. Interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u32	Yes, as a group of the First Chamber, we have not been involved in the cabinet agreements and the government program. Then I'll come to the retroactivity. The use of the means of retroactive action must, of course, be carried out with great care and restraint. My group is in favour of this. This retroactive effect is granted, for example, by fiscal and tax laws. In addition, it is even common practice. The Minister has already indicated this in her overview. In view of what has been said by the Council of State and by the state law experts at the meeting held in this House, and in particular what Professor Soons has said about the review of international law, my group can also justify the retroactive effect of this particular proposal in this particular case. It is not unlawful and therefore there is good governance, because improper governance is unlawful, although it does not in itself deserve the beauty prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u33	I understand the argument that it is not unlawful. For our part, that has not been argued either. But what does the CDA Group think? How much does she appreciate that the majority of the lawyers consulted say that this does not deserve the beauty prize, or that it is on the brink of good governance, or that it is a trick? These are the terms in which the articles on retroactive effect were appreciated. How does the CDA Group appreciate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u34	The interruption was just too early, because I wanted to explain why we can justify the retroactive effect in this particular case. We're not that excited about that. I chose my words with care. Why do we find this? The aim of the proposal is to withdraw the consultative referendum. We do not think that a review of this withdrawal would be appropriate, even if a referendum were to be held on this subject and the result could be rejected, as it is and remains a non-binding referendum. It is not good for democracy to let citizens go to the ballot box for nothing. On the basis of the above, my group can therefore justify the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act, with retroactive effect. Finally, I hope that all those people who have taken the trouble to email us will now follow this debate, so that they know that we Members of Parliament are accountable for the choices we make in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u35	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. Mr Sini has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u36	Here's to the trap. During that expert meeting it was also stated: if you have forgotten your keys, you can type in your window. It is legitimate; it is not prohibited by law, but it is harmful. Does the CDA realise that this will deprive citizens of an important democratic instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u37	The CDA has a different weighting in relation to the instrument of the consultative referendum. We do not see this as an important democratic instrument, but in principle as an infringement of the representative system we know, in which, through all parties, the opinion of the Dutch people as a whole is discussed here, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. With regard to legislation, all individuals can have prior participation in the legislative process via internet consultation. Interest groups are consulted in advance. If a decision is taken in the course of the journey after all these interests have been considered, I do not want to say that it is always correct, at least after all the arguments have been exchanged pro and contra. If a decision is not correct, we can go back to that. An example of this is the repeal law that is now before us. We have already said, when accepting it, that the substance will give rise to a misunderstanding. Now the law is repealed. I don't like that either, but we can always go back on our feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u38	Does the CDA realize that there is no alternative now? We all know the distance that is constantly growing between citizen and politics. Now we have this beautiful democratic instrument and you are going to abolish it with enormous haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u39	I am very grateful to my colleague for asking this question. If we were to see the means to improve the law, we would have been able to control it. I have just tried to demonstrate that this consultative referendum Act has an intrinsic problem. The law is not binding and if you want it to become binding, you need a constitutional review. I do not like to interpret laws contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u40	Mr Sini, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u41	That's right. You say that the law can also be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u42	No, I don't think so. It is the intrinsic dilemma in the law that it is an advisory referendum. The legislator can ignore it. That is also the aim of this law. I am not in favour of giving a pacifier to the citizens by pretending to have a say, whereas in fact that is not the case. If people are to be given a serious say, they must opt for a decisive legislative referendum, but this requires a constitutional revision. Then that royal path must be followed and it should not be attempted to prolong this Act's consultative referendum until it should actually become a decisive referendum. That's what we're up against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr Lokin speaks in an evaluation of the Advisory referendum Act. My question to her is: does she also think that this has actually made an evaluation unnecessary? Does she think that an assessment in chambers is sufficient or that the legally promised evaluation should take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u44	I am also grateful for this question, Madam President. In the meantime, we could not foresee that when we included that provision in the Advisory referendum Act, a state committee parliamentary system, which has made it clear in an interim report that it will come forward with a proposal for a decisive corrective legislative referendum. I very much look forward to the concrete design of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u45	Do I understand why Mr Lokin is saying that the statutory assessment is actually overruled by the report of the state committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u46	The legally committed evaluation is, as it were, included in the broad context of the mission of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u47	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u48	That was not an answer to my question. Maybe I didn't make that clear. The law says that there will be a separate review of the Advisory referendum Act. We have set up a state committee here, which is never intended to replace the evaluation of the Advisory referendum Act. My question to Mr Lokin is: does she think that the state committee's report could replace the promised evaluation? If so, what basis does it have for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u49	I'm not saying it can replace it at all. The evaluation is a matter for the government and you should ask the government that question. By the way, you have also put it to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u50	In response to my earlier question, Mrs Lokin said that it is a good thing that I put it and that she would come back to it. That was the question of how the CDA Group, which I call the legal tricks, appreciates them, thereby giving retroactive effect to the repeal law and thus preventing a referendum on the repeal law. You did come back to it, but I was not entirely able to follow your reasoning. You have stated once again that you were not actually in favour of this consultative referendum, at that time and still not, with a very consistent argument. I understand that very well. It doesn't really matter, because despite your argument, the Advisory referendum Act was adopted. It is therefore an existing democratic right of the people, which you are not very pleased with, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u51	What's your question, Mr. Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u52	My question is exactly: how do you appreciate that this democratic right that exists with a number of tricks is made impossible? Not only that it will be abolished in the long term, but also that it will no longer be applicable by this repeal law. For this, some articles in the law are needed to force that. How do you appreciate that? You replied with "yes..."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u53	Leave it at that, Mr. Köhler. Mrs. Lokin, you can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u54	I repeat what I have just said. Since this is a law repealing the referendum, the repeal law, it is unlikely that the government would react differently if a referendum on that repeal law were to be issued again with a possible negative result. The homework is not repeated, because this is a repeal law. If we are in favour of the withdrawal of the consultative referendum, which my group is in favour of, there is little point in having the voters come to the polls again for nothing. That seems to me to be bad for Dutch democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u55	I can only understand this argument if the CDA Group itself takes the following position: even in a referendum of this kind, we would not care about it again in the event of a 'no' vote by the people, and we would also be pleased if the government did not care about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u56	The Advisory referendum Act gives the government full power to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u57	But not duty! I do not think it is a logical follow-up to the Consultative referendum Act that she should never take any interest in the advice of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u58	No, it doesn't make sense, but in this particular case of the repeal of the law, that seems predictable to me, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u59	This calls for a further question from Mrs Lokin. The cabinet appeals, and you accept part of that, that the Advisory referendum Act could, in its present form, be alienating to the electorate. If we leave open the possibility for the electorate to ask if he even needs to speak on that, do we know whether that is the case or not? I don't think so, but it may be that the cabinet is right, indeed: the voter doesn't like it either and let it go. It may also be that the electorate in the referendum says: withdraw that repeal law. Well, at least we'll know how the voter feels about that. You're taking that opportunity away from the voter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u60	This opportunity seems frustrating to me for the functioning of democracy, quite frankly, if the government will not do so much with it. It is predictable that the government does not want to do so, because why else would it have tabled this withdrawal proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u61	Isn't it surprising that you say in advance that the voter is frustrated when we ask him to speak out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u62	No, if that verdict doesn't happen. That is the substantive reason for repealing the Advisory referendum Act. These are all questions you might want to ask the government rather than me, but let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u63	I'll have my time limit for that in a minute, if the chairman says so. Maybe at the latest. In this particular case, it is almost a test whether the government is on the right track in its reasoning, which you are adopting. It does not seem frustrating to me to ask the electorate and not to make it legally impossible by means of an art grab. I think that's a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u64	Retrospective force is not a trick. It is a means that can be applied lawfully. My group believes that this is fair in this case. I can't stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u65	On the one hand, I hear Mrs Lokin say that there is no room in our representative democracy for an advisory referendum. On the other hand, it is keeping the door open for a binding corrective referendum. Can Mrs. Lokin say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u66	However, there is scope for an advisory referendum under the current Constitution, as this does not require any constitutional revision. However, because of its non-binding nature, an advisory referendum provides frustration for those who take the trouble to go to the ballot box and vote against it. That is frustrating for the functioning of democracy, at least for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u67	The question was about the desirability of a binding corrective referendum. Moreover, you say that the consultative referendum is not working, it disappoints voters. On what basis can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u68	These investigations have been carried out and are also in a mid-term review, an interim report from the State Committee. I don't think I need to go into that any further. I think that if you want to give the citizens a say, you have to do so in a decisive way. That is what the citizens really want. In all the e-mails we have received, they assume that the Advisory referendum Act is a decisive form. That is exactly the dilemma in the bill and why I understand that the government wants to repeal this law. I have good hopes that the state committee will come forward with a secure proposal for a decisive referendum. We shall look into this with great attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u69	Then I hope that the CDA will not disappoint the voters by then rejecting the binding referendum again after the expectations you have now raised. But apart from that, you later quoted the French philosopher of law. Combating the improper use of legislation was at the heart of his plea. You are now saying that retroactivity is not an artifact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u70	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u71	We have had several experts here, lawyers, politicians, who said: it's breaking into your own house, it's a trick, it's not neat, it's indecent to do it that way. In this way, is it not an improper use of legislation, which may be legal, but until now has only been applied to emergency legislation on Sint-Eustatius of a temporary nature, of an urgent nature? Is it not improper to use it in this way, when there is no urgent interest in this law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u72	Firstly, the retroactive effect is not only used in the case of urgent legislation, so to speak. I have mentioned the example of budgetary laws, tax laws, proposals that are introduced retroactively by default so that all kinds of constructions are not applied quickly. It's a legitimate tool. So it's not a trick. I do not agree with the experts who put it that way. It's not always lawyers who do that either. One can think about that and express the opinion, of course. But I'll take the liberty of contradicting that. In this case, I think it is fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u73	Then I must contradict this, too. In the written rounds I asked hard and firmly on this subject, precisely on the examples of legislation with retroactive effect. The example you mention of budgets is not material legislation. Budgets can work back, but there is no example in procedural laws that has retroactive effect except for the example of Saint Eustatius, which is an emergency law. And this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u74	Mr. Van Hattem, you've already explained it, but tax legislation seems more than clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u75	Tax laws are substantive laws, not just decisions such as budget laws. It's really not just emergency legislation. I must contradict that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u76	Obviously, I've been asking through. The only example the government could cite that was identical to this law in terms of procedure was the example of Saint-Eustatius. That's a temporary emergency bill. Would you like to use something similar to a temporary emergency law in terms of procedure for something as important as the referendum? Isn't that an improper use of legislation, given the philosopher of the law you mentioned later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u77	The lawmaker, Mr. Portalis, says that if the evil is in the medicine itself, it is not improper legislation, but it is inherently wrong. That is what we as a group have always found from the Advisory referendum Act. Because the consultative referendum is not binding, the people are given a pacifier like Mr. O'Brien. What's his name again? PvdA referred to it in the Lower House at the time. I think that's a very good expression. We in the CDA Group do not want to put the citizens in the mouth of a pacifier. Then at least give them a decisive power, if you want to do so further. I do not want to have said that the CDA Group thinks that everything is going beautifully with representative democracy and so on. We do recognise that there is a problem. We have now set up the State Committee on Parliamentary System for this. We hope, as a group, that they can come up with sensible and feasible proposals to overcome this gap, where it exists. But we cannot do that with a consultative referendum. I think that's an inadequate remedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u78	Two questions. Firstly, I think that the CDA is rather contemptuous about the electorate's ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u79	Oh, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u80	Everyone knows that there are three possibilities in an advisory referendum: you follow it, you reject it or you make adjustments. Given that it is advisory, does the electorate know in advance that these three possibilities exist? Of course you hope that your opinion, your opinion, your voice will be carried out. But you know what it's like before, don't you? Then that whole story about disappointment is the greatest possible nonsense, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u81	It doesn't seem to be, to be honest. When I get the e-mails...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u82	It does turn out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u83	I don't know if you've read the e-mails we received. I've read them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u84	It's also evident from the polls...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u85	Mr Nagel, would you please let Mrs Lokin speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u86	If you have read the e-mails as well as I have, you will notice that there is a great deal of misunderstanding about the consultative referendum. Many voters believe that the legislator should follow the outcome of such a referendum. That is not the case. That makes it a bad drug. That is my view, and I will stick with that. I think we can continue to differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u87	Mr Nagel, a brief interruption. I think that this part of Mrs Lokin's speech has been discussed sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u88	Well, it's been said before. 38%, according to the polls, has certain expectations. There is a majority against the voters who have wanted a referendum for 50 years. You're ignoring it. That's how you turn the proportions upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u89	In the debate on the adoption of the Consultative referendum Act, I was also accused not by this honourable Member, but by another person I would not be democratic. I'm throwing that far from me. The CDA has the concept of "democracy" in its banner. Democracy is a form of government and not a religion. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a parliamentary system that dates back to 1848. Since then, it has gradually evolved into the system that we now know and which you can say has gradually become more democratic and accessible to ever larger groups in society. The time before 1848 in which the King assembled the First Chamber himself from the most significant in the country, lies far behind us. In steps, we developed the parliamentary democracy of an oligarchical system that was only open to men over 40 who paid enough taxes to form an order in which men and women aged 18 and over can both choose and be elected. A system that survived the containment. A transition from a period in which the summits of the columns negotiated among themselves what was good for the grassroots, to a defunct society in which individual citizens make individual choices. It brought us today's parliamentary representative democracy, which can count on broad support in society. "The political system is not as good as the politicians," as the SCP said several times. But about that political system, three-quarters of the Dutch people of today also say that large or small adjustments are needed. Because not every citizen feels seen and heard in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u92	Perhaps, in addition to your wonderful beginning, I should like to say that on 3 July 1918, exactly 100 years ago, elections were held for the first time under the general representation and under the general men's right to vote. With these men's voices, Mrs Groeneweg was the first woman to be elected to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u93	To such an addition, I can only say "thank you." As the Remkes Committee concluded: "It is important to involve those in democracy who now feel that it is about me, but mostly without me." This is certainly true in a globalising world where many developments take place on a scale that is far from people. In a world where many think they have no control, it is important to involve people in their own democracy. It's time for a new step. The call for more direct involvement, for control even if there are no elections and for politicians who are more aware of what lives among citizens is understandable. People are better educated, are able to inform themselves through the media and engage in public debate via social media. Sometimes for better, sometimes for worse. At the same time, a globalising world seems increasingly elusive to many people. It is therefore not surprising that, on the one hand, increasing empowerment and involvement translate into a desire for more direct control, and, on the other hand, that alienation and backwardness lead to a need to involve people more directly in order to prevent them from dropping out. Increasing emancipation, democratisation and individualisation can be seen as a long line in the history of the democratic system. We see how democracy can remain resilient by moving along with social developments without compromising its foundations. At the same time, there is a risk of an irreversible turning point if too many people in a more complex world feel unheard of and therefore drop out. In this light, it is special that we are now debating with a coalition which is not moving forward towards engagement, but is declining and which is reversing a limited form of democratic renewal, the consultative referendum, under the approval of a D66 Minister of all things. That is special, because at local level these coalition partners, and especially D66, have also participated in the search for new forms of control. I call participation ladders, which go from information to co-creation and decision-making. I see forms of deliberative democracy and a variety of referenda emerging. Many instruments have been developed at local and regional level to bring public authorities and citizens closer together. Does that always work out? No. Is everyone equally satisfied with the outcome of the participation pathways? At least: regularly the disappointment prevails. Are local referendums a success? Sometimes, but not always. Is this reason to put aside the whole range of instruments of participation that has been developed? Definitely not. Colleges, councils and states and their affected residents continue to work for new and improved tools and improvement. The dynamics in society of people who want more influence force that too. The position of people who threaten to abort requires that all the more. The situation on a national scale is a matter of extreme urgency. Here no renewal, no vision, no search by the cabinet for new forms, but only a defensive response to the apparently unseemly outcomes of only two referendums. The question is not whether the consultative referendum is the very best we can think of. The question is how Chamber and Parliament can respond to the need for more involvement and direct control of people and how we can prevent people from turning away from democracy. From this point of view, this bill is three times wrong. It is wrong, because it destroys one of the few instruments of direct control at national level, even before it has been applied three times. The first referendum was getting used to. The debate was little about the content and the outcome wrestled many, including my group. But society learns. The referendum on the Wiv went much better: a good substantive debate, a high turnout thanks to a sensible link to the municipal elections, and a nuanced result, on which the cabinet has also acted. Quite apart from the question of whether we agree with all the steps taken by the cabinet after that: there is little to be said about the Wiv referendum as such. Whoever thought the lock would be open by now came out tricked. The voter remains selective when and when he wishes to emerge and ignores the opportunity for a referendum on the donor law. We are asking the cabinet whether there is still sufficient reason to give time to the development of the referendum and not to throw away the old shoes before the new ones have been bought. Unfortunately, that is also in my text. I think it's been mentioned three times now. Mr. Chairman. Why does the cabinet not focus on improving the consultative referendum, for example by examining the effects of a threshold rather than a threshold? With an outcome threshold, the perverse incentive that advocates keep at home will in any case disappear. The cabinet could also look more broadly at the desirability of a quorum in an advisory referendum. Without a quorum, the alleged bindingness of a consultative referendum also lapses, as I say in the direction of the CDA Group. You then use the instrument for which it is intended: consult the citizen. Why has the cabinet not looked at this kind of improvement, whether or not with the evaluation provided for in the law? I'd like a response. It is wrong for the second time, because precisely those groups in society who experience a great gap with politics regard the consultative referendum as their instrument. This is particularly true of people with lower, or rather practical, levels of education. Several studies have shown this. The experts consulted in the hearing here in the First Chamber also pointed this out. The cabinet's argument that the form of the consultative referendum may ultimately lead to alienation of the electorate is not convincing, especially if you look again closely at the quorum requirements. It is precisely the abolition of the consultative referendum that facilitates this alienation, especially among people who are practically educated and already feel a distance from politics. This alienation is increasing because, through a legal trick, the bill is excluded from a voter's judgement. The cabinet considers it illogical that this withdrawal proposal itself could be part of a referendum. A thin reasoning, the logic of which our group does not understand. It is a simple yes-no question about the desirability of an instrument that concerns the electorate itself. There's nothing illogical about putting that to the voter. Mr. Chairman. The justification for the withdrawal proposal is lean. Nor does the argument that the consultative referendum is an adaptation to a corrective referendum convince us. Why can't an improved consultative referendum stand on its own, so we ask the cabinet. All in all, in my group's view, the argument is incomplete and therefore the cabinet does not take the electorate seriously. I would also like a response from the Minister. Wouldn't the Minister be open to at least making this bill referenceable? Then we know exactly whether the electorate needs this and what the electorate thinks of the consultative referendum. Finally, the third and most serious time wrong. It is very wrong because the cabinet does not come up with any proposal or initiative, or even a view on how to strengthen direct democracy. We do not see any attempts to narrow the gap between the citizen and this cabinet. Even at questions from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on this matter, this coalition will not go beyond saying that it will have an opinion on the proposals of the Remkes Committee in due course. Well, these proposals are partly on the table with the second interim letter: a corrective referendum, constitutional review and an elected reformer. But even yesterday, in her supplementary reply, the Minister wrote that it is 'but an intermediate position' and that it is too early to have a view. Remkes could change his mind. Mr President, what poverty! Can the Minister at least reflect on these proposals and indicate whether the cabinet intends to further develop them? It is better to know that now than to know that the committee remains on a shift on a field considered by the cabinet to be barren. Finally, Mr President. In the hearing and in the written questions, it has been a lot about the legal construct chosen by the cabinet to come out under a referendum on this repeal law. I will not go into it too much, because it has been changed in detail. The shared but certainly not unanimous view of the vast majority of the legal scholars consulted is: it is possible, but it is not beautiful at all. Now legislation is not necessarily a beauty contest, but the creation of a legal emergency link to get out of the voter's opinion is anything but elegant. It's kind of arrogant. Anyone who has followed the discussion about this in the Dutch Juristenblad, I say as a non-jurisdictionary recognizes that the legislator goes on slippery ice when he has to use tricks. I paraphrase Professor Voermans: "The legislator has no pass-partout and cannot act unjustly at will." And beyond: " (...) that kind of thinking is risky in a legal order built on the fragile values of our democratic rule of law." Perhaps the Minister of the Interior, as guardian of our rule of law, can reflect on that as well. Mr. Chairman. Democracy and the parliamentary system never stand still and grow with society. Now it is urgent that we take steps towards direct control of the citizen. On the one hand, because emancipated citizens want to cash in on their involvement, and on the other hand because groups who already feel badly heard should not turn their backs. We don't see this cabinet taking any steps. And if there's one step, it's going the wrong way. The repeal law abolishes the consultative referendum. And that's too bad. Not because it is a perfect instrument, but because the cabinet does not have the opportunity to improve the instrument and does not replace it. The fact that the cabinet, at the latest, refuses to give the electorate the opportunity to speak on this issue is a wrong choice. We call on the coalition to offer at least this opportunity and to engage in discussions with society on new steps to explore direct democracy and strengthen representative democracy. We look forward to the Minister's reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Within the D66 Group, intensive discussions have been held on the legislative proposal before us. Not only about the underlying analysis of the problem and the justification for the solution chosen in the legislative proposal. Questions have also been raised about the problematic aspects of a consultative referendum and about the procedural bottlenecks that arise in the application of this form of referendum. In addition, there are hesitations about the timing of the proposal and its non-referendability. Not least, we wonder to what extent it offers a prospect of modernising representative and parliamentary democracy. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on the reasons for the proposal. My group asked the government in the written preparation for the supposed alienating effect on the electorate in the event that a negative result of an advisory referendum and the subsequent review do not lead to the repeal of the law but, if necessary, to the entry into force of the law. Apparently, the government does not consider that the referendum as such would not be politically and constitutionally consistent with the way in which the legislative process is now structured with legal rules and policy frameworks. It is the electorate's expectations of an advisory referendum which, in the opinion of the government, could lead to alienation from the electorate. The statutory review of a rejected law should clearly lead to its repeal in the perception of the electorate. Apparently, the no-voters take their voice literally: "no is no." This explains the dissatisfaction in the event that the rejected law, whether or not after amendment, comes into force. In that light, my group would not only like to speak in terms of alienation. Here, too, the question needs to be asked as to how much the consultative referendum contributes to strengthening citizens' confidence in the state institutions and officials, and to strengthening social confidence, that is, the mutual trust between citizens and social groups. The paradoxical effect of consultative referenda can be to strengthen rather than bridge social and political contradictions. I would like to ask the Minister if she would respond to this compact analysis. Mr. Chairman. In our view, it is at least as relevant that the existing referendum figure does not meet the principle that a referendum result should in principle have binding and unambiguous legal effects. In other words, the consultative referendum does not provide legal certainty. However, under the existing Constitution, a state-law-binding referendum is not possible and a referendum can only be advisory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u96	While Mr Engels puts everything in a questioning form, if I understand him correctly, within his group the understanding is ripening that the consultative referendum is actually an undesirable form of a referendum. Of course that is possible, but that is quite contrary to his own party's electoral programme, which is only a year old. Can Mr Engels explain how that happened and how this development of ideas took place at D66? So soon after D66 actively defended the consultative referendum in the programme, there are so many doubts. Can Mr. Engels explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u97	The question is to what extent we still have these questions, but I will come to that later. Apart from that, I will argue that the D66 Group and the party when it comes to the referendum have always consistently opted for a binding corrective referendum. In the meantime, legislation has been introduced on an advisory referendum. And indeed, the electoral programme says that we embrace it because it is an instrument or a means to at least have a form of referendum. It was also discussed in the debate we had here on the consultative referendum. In any case, it is a form of a referendum, even though it has certain disadvantages in relation to the binding corrective referendum, which I have yet to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u98	I would like to remind Mr Engels that, although I do not think it is necessary that his group voted in full for the consultative referendum not only on the other side but also in the First Chamber at the time, although it was considered to be the next best. But I feel that in his further speech Mr Engels is going to withdraw from his electoral programme. I assume he's going to explain that later. Where is D66 going to make such a big turn in the consultative referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u99	There's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u100	Mr. Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u101	I would like to know from Mr Engels whether he really thinks that the consultative referendum is something innovative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u102	In what context innovative, I would like to ask you to understand the question properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u103	Renewing the opportunities for greater participation of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u104	It is a means and an instrument that is now also in the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u105	Do you think it's advisory...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u106	Mr. Nagel, would you please let Mr. English speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u107	Do you want an answer or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u108	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u109	It is an instrument, along with many others, that is in the context of giving influence to citizens. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u110	But in that context, the consultative referendum was really something innovative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u111	Sure. This is the case in legislative terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u112	Finally, Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u113	Of that, Mr. Engels' party felt that if there was something, that you shouldn't do it away, that you should improve it and embrace it, unlike the other parties that were in the front row to get rid of it, while there is now a D66 minister in the front row to get rid of it. That doesn't seem quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u114	No, I already understood that from your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u115	And I'd like that through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u116	Then I've achieved something, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u117	Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u118	I can now hear you use 'consultative' referendum and 'consultative' referendum twice. Is that conscious, or is that an erroneous replay? I like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u119	I don't remember. If it is right, I have only spoken so far about an advisory referendum. Well, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u120	I heard you say "consultative" twice, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u121	Then I apologize for that, because then I was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u122	Well, that makes sense. The second point is your compact analysis of just now. You say that the consultative referendum creates more contradictions and widens the gap between political power and the citizen. Do you therefore renounce the idea that a referendum can be a necessary complement to representative democracy, where citizens can change representative democracy by referendum, complement it and change it if necessary? Do you distance yourself from that thought that has always been advocated by D66 before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u123	Two things about this. We are talking about a legislative proposal on the withdrawal of an advisory referendum, an existing figure. I have just made a compact analysis of an argument underlying this. I have asked the Minister to respond to what we say on the contrary. I am waiting for that answer, because you will understand that I am not going to prelude to it. Second comment. If, in general, you ask whether there is room for additional forms of direct democracy within representative democracy, the answer is yes. There is no need for me, either in my group or in my party, to distance myself from that. But that's not what the discussion is about today. The debate today is also about which mode of the referendum is best suited for this. I have a lot to note about that, so I'll get to that later. But the direct answer is: no, we do not distance ourselves from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u124	It is already a good starting point not to distance yourself from it. But it would also be all the more reason to maintain the consultative referendum. You say that there is a distance between the citizen and the political power. But is this not the attitude of the government and political power, rather than the instrument of a consultative referendum itself? That was given to the citizen. It is precisely the reaction of the government, and not the instrument itself, that can lead to disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u125	You now repeat what you stated earlier in your term. That is the view of your group, and we have to respect it. So far, I have come no further than trying to discuss with the government whether the analysis underlying the proposal to withdraw the consultative referendum was in line with our views. I have a whole speech to make on how we look at the figure of the referendum and the modalities in the light of the role it can play in the existing representative democracy. I shall therefore come back to that in detail, but I would prefer not to anticipate it too much, because I do have some sort of set-up in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u126	Mr. Van Hattem, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u127	I will then wait for Mr Engels' speech, but I would also like to keep D66 on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u128	Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u129	I've known fellow English for a while; we've been in this house for a while. In 2008, Mr Engels said that it is generally accepted in a representative democracy that only the population can judge whether an earlier judgment is ready for adjustment. It was then about whether there might be room for a second consultative referendum under the European Constitution. At the time, Mr Engels was a huge supporter of this. I understand that the first consultative referendum is already under discussion, but at that time the second consultative referendum was still a very good figure. Mr Engels said something else about that. He said the cabinet wouldn't dare. However, I would like to convey the message that there is a beautiful treaty in which the concerns and wishes of the people have been expressed, but not to ask the citizens if they really are. Then you don't have much faith in your own analysis and solution. My question to Mr Engels is: what has happened since then? At the time, you were very much in favour of the consultative referendum, even in the second instance, and now you are defending a completely different model. Or am I ahead of the rest of your speech in which you return to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u130	Yes, because you don't know that at all. But your suspicions are not entirely unjustified. I've been with you for a while and there's a lot of input from me in the Acts. It's a nice political game to see if there's light in there or not, but it's very simple. The debate that took place in 2008 was about the European Constitution and the particular form of referendum that had been used and how the cabinet had dealt with it. In that context and in that light, I made a number of comments on this matter on behalf of my group. In the meantime, we are ten years ahead, we have different types of legislation and, by the way, within the framework of this legislative proposal, we are talking about whether or not it is a good decision to withdraw. What I am trying to say on behalf of my group today is that we have had and have had a great deal of discussion about this and that we also have the necessary exchanges with the government to reach a good judgment. So very one-dimensionally putting the question to me "did you first find this and then find it?', does not do justice to what I said at the time and certainly not to what I am going to say today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u131	Mr Engels does give a very special explanation of the concept of 'exchange of views'. Of course you are free to exchange views, but this is about one of the two referendums held. You were really in favour of the consultative referendum, even to repeat it. I would like to hear a little more about this in the course of your speech. It's not like I found a thingy somewhere. No, in half of the referendums held, you thought fundamentally differently about consultative referenda than I have heard from you so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u132	I am afraid that we will continue to disagree on this, at least in advance. I assume I can continue my speech. I said before the interruptions that under the existing Constitution a binding referendum is not possible under state law and can only be done after a constitutional change. The existing figure of the consultative referendum, I must continue to say it correctly, puts the legislator in a dilemma. That has been reported by others as well. As a government or legislator, either under the legislation, you have to assume the legal responsibility, or you have to assume a political, that is to say actual self-binding. So not state law or normative, but political self-binding. As far as my group is concerned, the first presents the necessary political and social risks. This has been demonstrated in recent times, in terms of political and social confidence. It is difficult for some sections of the population to understand if a result of a consultative referendum is not translated one-on-one by the government and the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u133	Consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u134	Yes. I do it all the time, don't I? But that may also be the suggestion that I do not mean anything by that, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u135	Let's just say that if you say "consultative," you mean "consultative." So also for the Report and Editorial Service: "consultative" in Mr. Engels is "advisative."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u136	Sure. And there's nothing like being corrected by you, Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the issue of political self-restraint. In my group's view, this is an impure figure of state law and not acceptable either, as this political commitment is not based on a constitutional legal obligation. A formally binding referendum has also been held by others who have stated that they do not need a constitutional basis for nothing, because it infringes the current formal powers of the legislator. By making a formal non-binding consultative referendum legally binding by means of a political commitment, the constitutional system of powers and responsibilities is actually being somewhat bypassed. That is an important motive, Mr President-in-Office. I shall now come to a point which will undoubtedly draw attention to the D66 Group in order to define the referendum as a democratic complementary instrument.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because this modality gives citizens a constitutional right to give an opinion on a law accepted by the States General and ratified by the government, with a clear legal effect, which they themselves are concerned about. Mr. Chairman. During the discussion of the legislative proposal for the introduction of an advisory referendum, my group indicated that it had reservations about this instrument. We also advocated making a fundamental choice at the time, a choice...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u137	I think Mr Engels is beyond the point that he has answered my previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u138	Could you keep the question brief, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u139	Yes, I come to a supplementary question. Is the reasoning why, unlike a year ago, the consultative referendum for D66 is not really a good means because it would always have been better to choose the binding referendum? I don't understand. I thought the two were in your election program, too. Then nothing prevented you from being for both: the one waiting for the higher, but nevertheless you could be for it. And now you have raised fundamental objections to the consultative referendum, which would have been one, two, three or four years ago. That does not explain to me why you now feel otherwise in principle. Or are you going to come up with that again in your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u140	I would like to add an additional sentence. This is reflected in the debate on the consultative referendum at the time. An important motive, then, is only the D66 Group of the European Parliament to define a referendum in principle and preferably in terms of a binding referendum, so that you can create a very clear legal effect on the basis of the Constitution and therefore not depend on political action. That is a very important element. That is also what we brought in, if I remember correctly, in the debate on the consultative referendum at the time, although I was not a spokesperson myself. Even then, we clearly stated that this is the ideal example of a referendum for us: the modality of a binding referendum. At that time, if I remember correctly, we also advocated that this basic choice should in principle be made in the existing representative system as far as we are concerned. Only: there was a legislative proposal in addition to the legislative proposal for a consultative referendum, all of which was outlined, requiring a two-thirds majority at second reading. At the time, of course, the question was: is it acceptable to accept the present law on the consultative referendum? The fact that my group chose to support that bill at the time is not an indication that we would suddenly think that a consultative referendum is a better or at least equivalent figure. Of course it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u141	Mr. Köhler, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u142	I didn't suspect that. Even then, you said that this is also my group's view that it is next best. But as long as we do not have the binding corrective referendum, we are happy with the consultative, sorry, consultative referendum. That's exactly where you need to explain your twist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u143	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u144	At least I would ask you to explain your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u145	Of course, there is no twist at all, so let alone make one. I am not yet ready to judge the bill at all, nor am I at all ready to present a number of hesitations and bottlenecks that exist in my group. You prelude on a twist that I'll have to explain, but you don't know that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u146	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u147	I am sorry if I have prevented Mr Engels from raising all the issues and dilemmas of his group. I like to hear many more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u148	Sure. Let's see where I left off. Yes, Mr President, I'm going to build on the binding corrective referendum. My group supports our view that this is the preferred variant of the referendum in the report recently issued by the State Committee on the Parliamentary System, the so-called Intermediary. For the State Commission also sees the constitutionally anchoring binding referendum as a serious opportunity for modernising and strengthening representative and parliamentary democracy. For, according to the State Committee, this referendum figure can be of value for addressing feelings of discontent by giving a voice to a sensible and cautious use of it. The State Committee rightly points out that non-binding variants of the referendum, consultative or consultative now should it be less strict in their consequences. That is an elementary point. After all, the legislator is not bound by the outcome and the follow-up then depends on a political weighting. It is precisely this element that can have the paradoxical effect of fueling social discontent. According to the explanatory memorandum, the government does not see any reason to take initiatives for democratic renewal at a national level in general and for a binding corrective referendum in particular. It may surprise some, but that attitude is very troubling for my group. My group is aware that the introduction of a binding corrective referendum requires an amendment to the Constitution. That is a complicated and lengthy procedure. We have also seen that the necessary two-thirds majority in the second reading was recently absent from the House of Representatives. This reflects changed political views within the parties of the original initiators on the referendum as such and on the referendable issues identified in that legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u149	Does Mr Engels agree with me that this is also due to the fact that the D66 Group on the other side voted against the constitutional revision on the binding corrective referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u150	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I saw that coming. I deliberately didn't want to throw out name tags and back numbers. I understand that my group and I are very close today. I'll drink that poison cup completely, too, I can assure you, I've been prepared for that, I've taken medication, it's gonna be okay. But I consciously, I say in all seriousness, have no need to make all kinds of political accusations. I simply note that that bill, which was laid down at second reading, did not reach a two-thirds majority, and that all kinds of political considerations and intentions are associated with it. Then let me be free to add: not just to D66. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u151	Mr Köhler, finally, very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u152	I am pleased to note that Mr Engels does not feel obliged to defend the position taken by D66 on the other side. I think that's a good idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u153	That is not only sensible, but we have not been allowed to do so either. The opposite is not true either. I remember one more example... Well, no, let's not say that. Other parties may also find themselves in a similar situation. Then you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u154	I would not like to offer Mr Engels a cup of poison. We shouldn't have that. But I have a question about his speech, in which he indicated that he would be a great supporter of the binding corrective referendum. He said just in a way that there should be restrictions on this, so that apparently not everything is eligible for a binding corrective referendum. But doesn't that just give you a new displeasure with the citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u155	I know what passage you're referring to. It was about a sensible and cautious use. But with that, I paraphrased the words of the State Commission's midterm. I do not disagree with that, however: in general, I think it is very good to deal with everything wisely, including constitutional instruments. I can imagine that the state committee, which is now working on this idea of a binding corrective referendum, does not assume that a correct binding referendum will have to be held every once in a while, because a state-law instrument, and certainly a new instrument, can be called into question very quickly. I can therefore imagine this wording in the reasoning of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u156	Yeah, and that could create new forms of discontent. It seems that we are going to set limits again and when or when a binding referendum can be held. Don't you see that this is how we're going to create a new pacifier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u157	Of course, I don't know. The state committee is still coming up with a final report. I hope that there will be a further development of the ideas on all kinds of procedural bottlenecks and on the issues that should not be referendable. I am not going to anticipate that myself; I certainly do not want to get in the way of the State Committee. Suppose there is a binding corrective referendum and the state committee itself indicates that the referendum will benefit from a sensible and cautious use of it. Then it is important that this starting point is taken into account in the way that referendum is then to be worked out. With you, I can only wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u158	I have just heard Mr Engels say that he does not always feel bound by what the D66-Second Parliamentary Group on the other side takes for its position, for example with regard to the vote against the correct binding referendum. But the question is, how does the D66-First Group of the European Parliament behave here? Are they based on a reflection on care, proportionality and all kinds of other factors that can be seriously questioned in this legislative proposal? I have already mentioned the examples of retroactivity. Or does the D66 party here in the First Chamber still have first and foremost a coalition commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u159	I'd say, listen to me. This will be discussed. Furthermore, Mr Köhler's question was not aimed at accepting or not adopting positions of the Dutch Parliamentary Group. He was referring to the question of whether you should defend the views of the House of Representatives. And we agreed that that is not a one-on-one situation. I am not ready for the elements you are referring to. So would you be so kind as to wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u160	I am aware that Mr Köhler does not always defend the views of his second parliamentary group either. However, my question to you was about the coalition agreements. Do you feel bound by the coalition agreements here as the First Parliamentary Group? Do you have any discretion on this subject here? Or are you saying that we are only looking at what the government plush offers to D66 and we are putting aside all our principles, as the House of Representatives has already done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u161	I'm not sure this was a question, Mr. Chairman. If it's a question, the answer is no. And then I'll continue my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u162	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u163	Let's see. I'm gonna try to get back on track. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that it is premature and too simple to conclude at this stage that there would be insufficient political support in the House of Representatives for substantial forms of democratic renewal. We also doubt whether there would be any prospect of a qualified majority before the end of the day for the introduction of a binding corrective referendum. It must be possible, however, that Mr Schalk asked for a legislative proposal on this subject to be legally binding and acceptable in substance. In other words, it is difficult to understand that the government is so easy to accept and does not feel its own responsibility and urgency to allow this withdrawal proposal to go hand in hand with a prospect of better forms of democratic renewal than the consultative referendum, as the government considers it to be, including, for example, a binding corrective referendum. That is why I urge the government to take an initiative to reach an agenda for democratic renewal. I would like to inform the Minister that my group will find it unconvincing if the government continues to refer only to the report of the State Committee and the government's reaction to it. The interim report of the State Committee offers an excellent opportunity to offer a certain perspective on this point already. My group specifically needs this. I ask the Minister to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u164	I have a question for Mr Engels. He mentioned a correct binding referendum. That's what the government should be investigating. Does this include research into the effects and effectiveness of the consultative referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u165	Well, not in advance. This will also depend on the outcome of the vote on this bill. But now that this government proposal is there and it is not excluded that the bill will be accepted, I say: not excluded, I have asked the government to examine it more broadly. My group considers it very important in this light that the government should show more initiative and provide a perspective on what instruments would be appropriate or appropriate. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u166	Does Mr Engels think that there has been sufficient experience in the consultative referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u167	I will come to that point as well. I have only talked about the government's motivation. I'm just getting ready to deal with the issue of non-referendability. Finally, I will talk about the possibility of implementing this proposal. Among other things, this point is raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u168	Mr Engels speaks promising words about the rest of his speech. There's a lot he still owes. But what I find out is that he's constantly using the rhetorical trick to make the better the enemy of good. He is critical of the government and says: "Guys, you really have to come up with a proposal, because we in D66 are not gonna let this happen." However, it is curious to abolish the consultative referendum first and then to call the government very loudly that there should be a corrective referendum. Why not carry out an evaluation of the referendum first, as the colleague has just asked? And why shouldn't you be able to work on that perspective with the government on the basis of that evaluation? Why does the D66 group get rid of that? We don't have the right of initiative here. I understand that it would be a little inappropriate to say here: "Hey, government, do something." But you are able to hold the referendum as it is. Why doesn't D66 itself take initiatives and leave D66 to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u169	Mr Koffeman also knows that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has no means of taking initiatives here. If he wants to know whether there are thoughts and initiatives in the party on this point, I can answer that question in the affirmative. So you'll be hearing about that. But that's not relevant right now. I am currently dealing on behalf of my group with the government and with the minister. I am in a debate with that and with you and others. But the debate is taking place within the context of this bill. Your question is also based on the assumption that my group already has a final opinion on the consultative referendum. I have made comments on the issues raised, particularly in relation to the binding referendum. But, as I said, I still have two main elements to deal with. I'd like to do that with the government and if necessary with you. But my group needs this in order to reach a proper balance. The questions about why I am doing this and not doing that, because I would actually abolish the consultative referendum, are actually a bit on the early side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u170	Finally, Mr. Koffeman, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u171	I would like to express my thanks. This is much more than I dared hope for. I thought D66 had already made the trade-off. I hope you're not giving false hope right now. But I think it's great that there are still issues to be discussed and that it can still be done in all directions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u172	This is quite touching that I am getting such a compliment from Mr Koffeman when I think about how the day has already gone for my group. I really needed that for a while and I am very grateful for it. You've really put my heart on the line. Mr. Chairman. I would like to come to the point about the referendability of the bill. This has passed enough by today. The government has chosen not to allow a referendum to be held in the legislative proposal, by providing that the proposal will enter into force in a different way after parliamentary acceptance. The entry into force of this proposal is such that the procedural rules contained in the Wrr on the entry into force of a reference law are eliminated. In its opinion on the legislative proposal and in the information requested by the Minister on the initiative of the House of Representatives, the Council of State stated that this construction was 'legally effective'. That is indeed an interesting and interesting term. But also the state lawyers consulted by the First Chamber in an expert meeting on this issue have left no doubt as to the constitutional and legal sustainability of the chosen construction. In order to achieve non-referendibility, retroactive action is necessary. Otherwise, the exclusion of referendability would miss the intended effect. In the regular situation, a referendum precedes ratification. On this subject, the consulted state lawyers have been absolutely clear. My group also recognises that it is consistent in itself to exclude the referendability of a law which seeks to make this referendability impossible. As far as my group is concerned, it is also clear that the legislator has the power to decide, by way of derogation from the Wrr, that no consultative referendum is possible. Article 81 of the Constitution gives, in principle, unlimited powers to the formal legislator. It has only to ensure that there is no conflict with higher constitutional and treaty rules. The other provisions on legislative power contained in the Constitution and the constitutional system to be distilled from them, including the so-called lex-posterior principle, also make it clear that the legislator is not bound by the law at least not formally bound by the choices previously made by the legislator. Our constitutional system also has no hierarchy between formal laws, even in the relationship between organic, general and special laws. In that light, the legislator in the Wrr was thus unable to bind the later legislator. But this is where the government's chosen construction comes in. Indeed, the consulted state lawyers have stated in different terms that they have reservations about the substance of this route in its own right. They believe that this will deprive the supporters and opponents of an advisory referendum of the opportunity to express their views on this matter. This criticism has been formulated in a range of "not chic" to "ugly art grip"; the other one I leave out. My group understands and shares these concerns. My group is therefore certainly not ready to see that the government has complied with the obligation to motivate the chosen state-law solution sufficiently. We can understand in itself that, in the event of a decision to abolish the instrument of the consultative referendum, there is a certain logic and that, from a legal point of view, it is not unlawful to exclude the possibility of holding a consultative referendum on this subject within the relevant legal rules. But a different logic or consistency is also conceivable, namely that in the event that citizens are deprived of a right to exercise influence, they may have influence on it or on it. We therefore call on the government to motivate its own logic with more conviction. I now come to the opportunity of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u173	I think this is a bit of a weakness offer from D66. You are simply asking the government to motivate this with more conviction, but if you find it difficult to justify the choice, would it not be much more reasonable to say in principle that we should not make that choice and that we should give room to hold a referendum on the referendum instead of using this trick and allow the minister to legitimize that trick? Isn't that very contradictory?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u174	No, I don't think so at all. I understand, however, that the honourable Member's question is based on a black-and-white statement: it is this or that. I have tried to indicate how my group has discussed this point, which is a difficult point. I have indicated that, on constitutional grounds, there is a series of arguments which lead to the conclusion that this is in itself a legitimate route. Everyone agrees on this; I believe that one professor has expressed hesitation on this point. That's the first side of the story. The second side of the story is: but should you want to? That's where the discussion begins. That's what bothers my group: do you have to do that? How far is the elasticity of state law, even in political terms? We have found that the government relies on a certain logic: if you want to abolish the consultative referendum, you should not hold a consultative referendum on this issue. I'm doing it a little black and white now, as you're doing very well. The question is whether that is convincing enough. We don't think so. So we are asking the government whether it can still convince us. That is the way in which we have an internal discussion. That is also the way in which we wish to conduct the discussion with the cabinet. Maybe that's not the way you argue. It could be, but this is what it is. In other words, in response to your question whether this is a weakness offer, I would say that it is precisely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u175	In any case, this is already a clarification. Mr Engels says that D66 is not yet convinced on this point. That's already a clarification. So it's good to hear that. Nevertheless, this remains a black-and-white position, because we can only vote in favour or against. That's the situation you're keeping. In that light, there are few possibilities, except that the proposal is withdrawn or postponed until after the trial on which I have tabled a motion. There is another motion, because we are going to have a power vacuum in the area of state law. That option is still there. We might have an passed law later, and there's gonna be a lawsuit coming up that might recant the case. What do we get? That is all the more reason to take this retroactive effect out of this proposal and perhaps not adopt it or postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u176	That had already become clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u177	Is Mr. Engels now saying that he has doubts about the government's motivation to repeal the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u178	No, I don't think I said that. I repeat what I have just said to another fellow Member: my group considers it acceptable, in a state-law sense, that the route of non-referendibility has been taken. On this subject, except for a few exceptions, everyone has said that this is legitimate and therefore acceptable. My group then wondered: even if it is a legitimate instrument, even if you can do so and even if the government has chosen to do so, is it also sufficiently motivated by the logic of not holding an advisory referendum on the abolition of an advisory referendum? I asked the government about that. That does not mean that there is doubt about legality; there is no doubt, but I said that you could use a different logic here. I have heard them too, not among state lawyers, but with the politicians who have been consulted. I would like, on behalf of my group, to hear from the Minister, also in view of the discussion that is taking place within my group, how convincing the government can still make that logic. That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u179	You're asking the government to motivate this further. Don't you think it's wise to wait for the state committee's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u180	No, we're dealing with this bill right now. One of the elements of the legislative proposal and one of the points on which we are going to assess it is the question of non-referendibility. I would like to have that debate with the government today and try to find a solution. I do not see very well why we have to wait for the State Commission to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u181	Finally, Mr. Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u182	What criteria do you use to convince you by the government? What more do you want to hear than what has been heard so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u183	Of course, I can't see into the bosom of the government. I'm not gonna tell you what the minister should say. So I will wait and see what she comes up with and then we will assess that in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u184	I have a question on the same point, along with Mr Sini's last comment. We have had three rather extensive rounds of questions, partly thanks to the sympathetic cooperation of the committee chairman. Does Mr Engels expect new arguments to be put forward? I do not plead for waiting until the committee arrives. I'm in favour of confessing but color.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u185	One of the main pillars on which the government rests in terms of non-referendibility is that it is built on a certain logic and consistency. We also understand that logic and consistency, but we also understand that there is another logic, namely that you are holding an advisory referendum on a withdrawal proposal for the existing consultative referendum. My group needs to hear from the Minister on behalf of the government why one logic should ultimately be stronger than the other. That's what I'm asking for. That is exactly what lives in my group. I may be able to come up with anything around that, but that's not relevant. It is a very clear and direct question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u186	Yeah, I get that. In the view of my group, this question has also been asked a number of times, including in the written round, and that has also been answered. What new arguments does Mr Engels expect to hear from the cabinet in this debate of logic, I would almost say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u187	For starters, I don't know if there will be any new arguments. Again, I can't look into the head of the government, because I may not have to use the word bosom anymore, Mr. President. I don't know if there will be any new or other arguments. Let me rephrase the question. If you choose a figure like this, which is quite exceptional, even if it is legitimate, then it is good practice that a government motivates why this path should be chosen. Other legislation has done the same. We must be able to weigh that. My group has looked at the arguments put forward by the government, in the sense that it makes perfect sense to do so. In the careful preparation of this bill, we have heard other sounds about it, including in terms of logic and consistency. We ask the Minister and the Cabinet to help my group to reach a judgment on what logic should ultimately be the most strong in the light of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u188	Mr. Van Hattem, do you have a question that is of a very different nature than that which has just been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u189	Well, it's going to go on with what's just been going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u190	No, no, I'd like to consider that subject a little rounded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u191	Yeah, but this is really important to wrap it up. Mr Sini's question has not actually been answered. Mr Engels asked the government on what grounds something was supported. Mr Sini's question was right on which D66 is being examined. What are the frameworks on which D66 assesses it? We didn't see an answer to that. In fact, you do not have the courage to make a clear choice. We would like to hear which direction you want to go, if that is so, because that keeps you in the middle a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u192	I must honestly say that I find it difficult to understand this question, because this question does not relate at all to certain frameworks that you should or should not apply. I do not know what frameworks you have in mind that might apply here. It is simply something quite different, namely the government's test of a supposed logic to an opposite logic that was put forward by some of the experts consulted in the preparation of this bill, and also in the literature. We're asking for persuasiveness. Then it is up to the Minister or the Government to decide how it will use that power of persuasion, within what frameworks. That's what we'll listen to. If the underlying question is that you want to know whether I can indicate with what kind of answers my group would or would not be satisfied, then I am not going to say it, because I do not know, and if I did, you would not hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u193	I don't want to prosecute this. No, Mr. Van Hattem, it's over now. Mr Köhler, even if it is something quite different from what has now been discussed extensively here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u194	On the same subject, but a completely different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u195	Then you can ask one question, and please, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u196	Have I understood correctly that Mr Engels says that the government's logic on this point has not yet been convincing enough for his group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u197	Yes, you have understood that correctly, and I can answer that in the light of another logic or consistency that has passed in the discussion so far. I come to the last big point, which is about the opportunity of the proposal. My group has not escaped the fact that the political experts consulted in the expert meeting have questioned the timing of this proposal in a branch of sport other than state law. It would be too early to abolish the consultative referendum already now. In general, the representative parliamentary system distorted by party democracy calls for additional forms of legitimising democracy. That was one line of argument in that expert meeting. It was also said that, in particular, the existing modality of the consultative referendum could be improved, that more experience should first be gained and that we should wait for that evaluation, which has already been mentioned. With this first observation, that there are problems within representative democracy, my group can agree. It is not for nothing that there is also a state committee active on this issue. Without declaring representative democracy bankrupt, there is certainly reason to think, my group believes, about additional forms of more direct democracy, as one of the means to strengthen the legitimacy of the parliamentary system. As I said before, my group is not opposed to the incorporation of institutionalised forms of social counter-pressure. We do not simply support the second observation. On its own, improvements could be made to the existing law, for example with regard to the unfortunate entry threshold, which provokes strategic behaviour, or with regard to the number of declarations of support required. However, this type of adjustment cannot eliminate the fact that the core problem of the present referendum figure lies in its consultative nature. This makes the referendum a one-dimensional warning system for social discontent rather than an instrument for substantive and business social debate and direct participation of citizens. Having said that, however, my group understands the criticism of the timing of this proposal, including in the light of the legal assessment. Because it does not go far beyond a clear elimination of the consultative referendum as a democratic instrument and does not seem willing to wait until more experience has been gained with this figure. This also suggests that proposals from the State Committee could be ignored in advance on this point. My group would very much regret that. We believe, at least, that such a position, if the government continues to hold it, cannot be based solely on party political wishes and coalition interests. I would ask the Minister to respond to this point. Mr. Chairman. My comments show, I hope, that my group is unhappy with this proposal on a number of points. We do not share all the objections that have been raised on various sides to the proposal. However, we have an understanding of the pleas that we should not already decide to abolish the existing consultative referendum and the objections to non-referendibility. This has also been questioned within my group. In order to achieve a good balance, my group has a strong need for a more detailed explanation by the government of the points I have raised in this regard. That is why we will be following the Minister's response today with more than ordinary attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u198	Thank you, Mr. English. Would you stand still, Mr. English? Mr. Koffeman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u199	Of course, that was a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u200	That's right, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u201	Are you going to make me happy again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u202	Well, I hope you're gonna make me happy. That's actually how we see it. Mr Engels is fortunate that he has recently been chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in D66. Congratulations on that, by the way. So he is also in a position to say to his group, as a result of the struggle within his group that he has shown, to his group: boys, this is such a difficult theme, it is such a huge thing for us, D66'ers, that I am going to make it a free matter. Could Mr Engels explain that here and now? That is going to offer a lot of air and space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u203	What do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u204	After everything you have said and the enormous struggle that lives within your group, I cannot imagine that you would prescribe group discipline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u205	Mr. Chairman. I think it is very unusual for me, especially as the new chairman of the political group, to start making very basic political mistakes by discussing with you, here in plenary, how I deal with my group internally, and certainly at this point, so I am really not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u206	I am very glad that I think I can say that this is taken into consideration in any case. I think that is a lot more than I would have hoped for before this debate began.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u207	Can I make another serious comment? Let me rephrase. It is precisely because there are hesitations and doubts within my group on various points, to a lesser extent and several others, that you will understand that when it comes to the referendum in my contribution, I tried to show them before I became the chairman of the political group where those concerns lie and that I would like to discuss them with the Minister. As a result of the government's reaction, I would then like to do justice to those views and hesitations within my group. It is not at all the culture within my party that a political group leader has almost tempted me, but I am not going to do it with dictatorships. That is not how we went about with this bill and that is not how we are going to end up. The only thing that will be my job is to come up with a good opinion to the group on the basis of what has been exchanged today, the reaction of the government, and how we are going to conduct the discussion in the group further after the end of this debate. That seems to me to be perfectly reasonable and sensual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u208	Mr. Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u209	In any case, that makes me happy and happy for this moment. As the group chairman, I would like to give the opinion to Mr Engels: do not make it a binding referendum if it is debated within the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u210	I see one thing, namely that there has been a very warm relationship between Mr Koffeman and Mr Engels. He was just so happy with Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u211	He's got something to make up for, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u212	Are there any Members who wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u213	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 34854 Repeal of the Advisory referendum Act. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that, like many of the speakers here today, I am very committed to full democracy. Perhaps I may briefly summarize in my own words what I have just heard. For example, Senator Nagel has suggested that the Netherlands would not be a full democracy without a national consultative referendum. Senator Schalk, on the other hand, reminded us of the situation before 2014, when we did not have a law on the consultative referendum. Senator Ten Hoeve pointed out that, because of its advisory nature, the Advisory referendum Act seems to give too much risk of disappointment for the participants, the voters. Senator Lokin called that an intrinsic dilemma. In fact, it is a brief summary, and I have not mentioned it to everyone either. It indicates that it is good to have that exchange of views with each other and that it is good to talk about our vision of democracy, which may, of course, differ from one another in the light of this legislative proposal. In my view, the Netherlands has a full democracy. In my view, a full democracy is also a learning democracy. Then you'll have to keep reflecting. I am therefore pleased that a state committee has been set up precisely to test the future stability of the parliamentary system. This is happening on the basis of a motion from this Chamber, the Duthler motion. I come back to the questions that have been asked about the state committee. Then there is the instrument of the consultative referendum. If you find that the instrument of the national consultative referendum is fundamentally flawed, it is not just a question of correcting parts of the consultative referendum, no, it is fundamentally flawed because of the advisory character........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is the conclusion the cabinet has drawn. Because of its consultative nature, the referendum cannot be taken for granted by the electorate. I'll zoom in on it. If, at a turnout of 30% or more, the majority of voters say no, that is an advisory decision to reject it. It is not surprising that many voters then expect justice to be given to that ruling and that the law does not enter into force. But that's just not what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u215	The Minister should also point out that despite this, the majority of voters have wanted to keep the referendum for 50 years. That's one. But there's something else. Imagine this. We have a lot of companies in the Netherlands with a lot of works councils. Those works councils all have the right of advice. There will be a director and he says: these advices generate so many expectations that we cannot live up to if we abolish that right of advice from the ors; I am so determined that I will not discuss it with them again. What would the Secretary of State think of such a governance style?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u216	I shall come back to the first point in detail later. Mr Nagel may say that the voters have wanted something for 50 years, but the investigations that are taking place now are very serious because of the National Voters' investigation, time and time again point to something else. That is not because of the electorate, it is because of the instrument, I say to Mr Nagel. As far as I am concerned, his comparison with the Works Councils Act does not apply. The argument is that this part of the law leads to confusion, namely that advisory nature, that the government does not require the withdrawal of something on which the voters have ruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u217	We can settle this perpetual, unleading discussion very easily, namely by putting the question to the voters in a referendum: do you want it to be abolished or do you want it to be retained? As a member of the minister's party, Jan Terlouw, says, that is a very simple question. If we do that, we're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u218	Mr Nagel points out that we would then be out. I actually want to come back to this later, but he's asking now. The point is that a ruling by the electorate under this law, the consultative referendum, simply leads to a review and not to a follow-up of the result, as many voters do expect. And why do voters expect that? Because, of course, parties in the campaign give rise to this. My position would be that, if you submitted the repeal law for the Advisory referendum Act to the voters in an advisory referendum and if that would lead to the ruling that some of the voters do not wish to do so, perhaps a majority and perhaps above the turnout threshold would not lead to the obligation to withdraw that repeal proposal. It's all like-then and I would never normally do that, but Mr Nagel explicitly asks for it. Then it only leads to a rethink and thus you build up the disappointment among the voters. So it exactly supports the cabinet's position and the reason to withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u219	Finally, Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u220	Yeah, one last point. The first point is that it is important to hear the opinion of the electorate. Secondly, do you have faith in a minister of the Interior of a party who attaches extraordinary value to participation? If that statement is unambiguous, it does not mean that it must be rejected in advance. This must be handled with wisdom, doing justice to democracy and participation. Give the people that chance. That's what a lot of partymates want from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u221	The minister stands here as part of a cabinet and that consists of four parties. I choose the driver's approach and I think it is important to be transparent about it. I can continue my speech, but perhaps Mr Van Hattem would like to go first. I don't know what the chairman wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u222	Mr Van Hattem first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u223	I hear the Minister clearly saying that the instrument is flawed and not the electorate, but it is actually being misguided. You are now saying that the instrument is flawed. No, the government's choice, that's what the disappointment is about. You can blame the instrument, but it is ultimately the government that makes a choice not to follow a certain result. If that is disappointing, it is what the government chooses and not the instrument that led to that choice. So you're actually putting the ball in the wrong place to get your criticism out. It's not the instrument itself. With regard to the instrument itself, I have not seen the voters e-mailing or hearing them shouting in mass: cancel it, that is wrong. No, it is precisely the government's choice, which follows a result that is difficult, and not the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u224	I'm gonna bounce that ball back to Mr. Van Hattem anyway. It is indeed the instrument it lacks. Mr Van Hattem says that the government should always follow the outcome of the referendum, but we should have had another law. That's not what this law says. This law states: it is an advisory ruling and should lead to a review. That is different from following the pronunciation and that is exactly where the crux of the dilemma lies. Voters expect the verdict to be followed. The law sees a review. In practice, this is something else, namely an interpretation, which we saw in the association agreement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u225	However, I would like to stick to the point that the government cannot achieve the expectation with its choice. That is not the instrument, it is the government's choice. That is the fundamental point. The government may as well choose to follow the results. That has nothing to do with the instrument itself. You refer to all kinds of investigations that have been carried out, but other surveys show that the majority of voters simply say: please keep that referendum. But a small minority says that it really needs to be abolished. The point now is that it is not the referendum itself, but really the government's choice not to follow a result. That is where the balance lies, not the instrument itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u226	I really insist that it is the instrument itself and not the government's choice. The government must comply with the law and the Advisory referendum Act says: there must be a review. The law doesn't say: you have to follow the results. The government has to do that, and so has the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u227	The question is whether the government has sufficiently informed voters about what the government is doing with the outcome of an advisory referendum. The instrument may be good in itself, but if you are not sufficiently informed, you cannot work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u228	I think that is a good point from Mr Sini. I shall come back to that later, because he asked a very specific question. Of course there is a responsibility, including the cabinet. I believe that the examples, the Ukraine referendum and the Wiv referendum have shown that you need to play a role in this. Of course, it is important for voters to be able to know about the content of the issue. But that doesn't mean anything about the instrument as such, because it remains there that it is an advisory referendum. Even if the electorate is well informed about the content, it should not be concluded that the electorate is equally well informed about the consultative character and review that the cabinet has been held to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u229	The Minister says that voters expect a possible "no" to be carried out in an advisory referendum, but that the law does not prescribe that at all and thus, by definition, leads to disappointments. Where does she get that voters expect that? In the written documents, she only writes that on the basis of the National Voice Survey, the last one held, 38% of the voters, a clear minority, who has expectations and is therefore disappointed. The majority of voters do not expect that at all according to this same investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u230	Yes, but Mr Köhler cites part of the investigation. It's true what he says. The 2017 National Voters Survey shows that 38% of voters believe that the cabinet should always follow the results. 39.7% consider that it depends on whether the negative decision should be followed. A part finds the same thing as that 38% and a part doesn't. The study in the advisory referendum on Ukraine showed that a majority of voters want the cabinet to listen to the results. 62% think so. The same applies to the voters. A majority of the voters felt that the result should be listened to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u231	The 62% in the second referendum, and also in the Ukraine referendum, you have served at their beck and call. They are not disappointed at all, because the government has made a fundamental change through its insert to accommodate the "no" voter. That is the government's position. I do not understand your argument that 62% of people are disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u232	I think Mr Köhler understands it very well, but he does not agree. That may of course be the case, and today's outcome will also be that there may be different views. But that does not alter the fact that the investigations I have just quoted show that there is another expectation among the electorate. Once again, that is not the electorate's fault, but the expectation of the electorate's politics. The voter's expectation is that, if a referendum is held, the result will also mean that the law on which the referendum was held will then be repealed. That is supported by the figures I just gave, but of course there is something else behind it. The political and social debate following referendums shows that there is a lot of discussion, starting with what a referendum is all about. The consultative referendum on the Wiv was an example of this. There is also a great deal of discussion about what needs to be done with the outcome. So there's no clarity in it. I would also like to say a few words about this instrument, the consultative referendum, as it is now. It has been said: if it is not perfect, perhaps we should improve it. Is that an option? Then I would reason: there are, of course, parts in it that could be different. It has just been said how the turnout threshold got in. There is also the number of signatures to be collected and the question of what could be the subject of an advisory referendum. However, it is an advisory referendum and not, for example, a binding corrective referendum, in which there can be no discussion as to what should happen to the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u233	Mr. Köhler, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u234	Do I understand the Minister that it is not really on the basis of an evaluation of the referenda that the government takes this view, but that she says that there is such a fundamental birth error in the consultative referendum that it should never have been?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u235	I do not have an opinion on that, because that is what the legislator decided, of course. It is now about the application of the instrument, which the cabinet notes is indeed a fundamental flaw, which leads to discontent. That is why the cabinet feels it would be better to withdraw the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u236	I see Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Sini and Mr Ten Hoeve at the interrupting microphone. I hope you will ask other questions and not the same questions, because the Minister is answering and we need to see if we can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u237	I'm already on page 2, chairman. It's going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u238	With your permission, chairman, I have a floor question. Then let me call it that. The cabinet quite hangs the argument on everything that has happened around the Ukraine referendum. At that time it was decided in the womb of the cabinet in the making that this should be over. Two things about that. One. There is nothing wrong with a piece of social debate, which enriches our democracy, even if you do not always agree with each other. Two. The second referendum, on the Wiv, is actually the model as it could go very well: a nice debate, a good content, a good turnout and a nuanced result. The cabinet has acted. We can differ on whether that was good or not, but the cabinet has acted. There has been no popular uprising about what the cabinet has done with the results. I think that large groups in society have said: well, that can be fine. Would it not, with this knowledge, lead to a bit of a review of the very strict position that the cabinet is taking now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u239	I am pleased to hear Mr Lintmeijer say that he is positive about the way in which the cabinet dealt with the outcome of the consultative referendum on the Wiv. I do, of course, like to hear that, but I would like to say that, even in the run-up to that consultative referendum, there has been a lot of confusion as to what the referendum was about. There were parties who said that you should vote in this consultative referendum, because then you will vote in favour of the instrument of referendum. Of course it wasn't about that, but everyone can call the voter to vote and give their own motive. I would like to point out that there were no confusing elements in that consultative referendum and that it was not necessarily about what it was about. I believe that this supports the government's position on the fundamental flaws of the Advisory referendum Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u240	Mr. Lintmeijer, let me finish briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u241	We have best questions about how the cabinet dealt with the Wiv, but as a whole that is a procedure that has been followed that fits in with the referendum. There is, of course, always discussion in the margins about the question: what exactly is this about? On an average evening of participation where 100 people come, there are also always 10 who actually come up for another subject. That is no reason to abolish the whole participation. Whatever referendum you hold, even with a correct binding referendum, you will always have a margin discussion about whether it is really what it is about. However, in order to draw such a heavy conclusion, especially at the Wiv referendum, we are going too far and too fast, because an instrument can also prove itself and we can learn how to deal with it. We have seen that learning ability develop very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u242	Mr Lintmeijer is, of course, free to look at it this way. I have just heard his speech and understand that he actually says: for the voter it was unclear the first time and the second time it was somewhat less unclear. It assumes that the instrument will develop as such. That is a vision that can be respected, but it is not the vision that the cabinet has chosen. We have said that there are too many shortcomings in the instrument as such, we find its advisory nature confusing and we believe that this leads to uncertainty. Hence this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u243	Shouldn't the government have given enough time to use this instrument so that voters can get used to it? Moreover, the Minister only talks about the results and what the government does with them. But a referendum leads to a social debate and voters becoming involved in politics. This is not a small positive effect of the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u244	Mr Sini is actually asking two questions. The first is in line with what Mr Lintmeijer just said: should the electorate not be able to get used to the instrument? My argument is, on the contrary, always: don't put it too much on the electorate now, but on the political side. The choice we make is to put it down to politics, to look at the instrument as such and to what it then obliges politics to do. Since it is not mandatory and therefore an imperfect instrument, we say: then we must dare to stop that instrument, rather than continue to do so and remain in the same discontent. Mr Sini is right, of course, that there must always be a social debate. But my point would be that an advisory referendum is not the only way to have a social debate. In fact, perhaps it is not the most perfect way to have a social debate. So I would say that we need to use a lot of ways to do it, even in the early stages of legislation. But this instrument is not necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u245	Mr. Ten Hoeve. And again, I hope it's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u246	We're trying. The Minister says that it is inherent in this system that it can easily give rise to disappointments. I have already made it clear that I agree with her, but she says: we could have tried to change it. Of course, there are a lot of possibilities for that. I have a feeling that if you had tried, you could have had a system based on the experience that we have a little bit in the meantime, which could have considerably reduced the risks to that disappointment. In the end, we simply have to decide whether we want to be so radical that we can either abolish it at once or change it. Then you're left with an instrument that isn't 100%, but at least you don't have to take this very rigorous measure. Then I stick to my point: wouldn't that choice have been wiser?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u247	I heard Mr Ten Hoeve very well. I did hear him say exactly that. It was actually the same reasoning that I followed about this infamous disappointment among the voters. His question is whether we couldn't have fixed that. Could we not have amended the Advisory referendum Act in order to get exactly that out of it? My argument is not, because what element of the current law would have to be repaired in order to solve that? Is that the turnout threshold? Is that how signatures are to be collected or is it the amount of signatures? Is that what the consultative referendum could be about? Of course, you can argue about that and you can talk about it for a very long time, but even if you agreed on all those parts and said 'it is a good instrument', it remains that it is advisory. In my opinion, this is the kind of disappointment Mr Ten Hoeve was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u248	Finally, Mr. Ten Hoeve, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u249	In principle, of course, the Minister is right: what is inherently embedded is not taken out. You can limit the topics that are referendable in such a way that this cannot result in the problem of Ukraine referendum. The obligation of turnout or outcome should be formulated in such a way that, when there is a valid outcome that is really very convincing, it makes it easier for a government to admit it in concrete cases. In other cases, if the government considers that this is really impossible, but in my opinion only very few cases have been taken, it will ultimately remain in its position. That would, I think, prevent a large part of the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u250	Would you like to ask your question, Mr. Ten Hoeve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u251	It was not really a question, but rather a sigh from Mr Ten Hoeve. I think we agree that it is very difficult to achieve this. In this case, we would then be working on the instrument, to perfect it. Then I think it might be better to admit that this instrument is not really good enough and to say goodbye to it and to look at it in the broadest sense. I would like to say a little more about the Remkes Committee, about parliamentary democracy and its strengthening in general, and about what instruments you should use. And that this is then a way to be preferred in relation to the designing of an instrument which has fundamental flaws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u252	Once again, I ask those who interrupt to keep the questions brief. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u253	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister saying 'the wrong subject in a referendum' and 'the result that would be wrong'. It seems as if the Minister already wants to fill out how the politician and the electorate should fill it out. Above all, she says: the problem is the expectation of politics in a referendum. The Minister has already said that the problem is not with the instrument, but with the expectations that are being raised. It is precisely the interaction between representative democracy, elected representatives and government, on the one hand, and the referendum on the other, on the other. The voter can thus indicate a direction. If politics raises certain expectations, then politics can also be dealt with in democratic elections. I do not see the problem the Minister wishes to raise. This is how democracy works basically, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u254	Of course, Mr Van Hattem and I agree with each other. There are elections once in a while, once every four years before the House of Representatives, and that is indeed the time when the voter can vote in any case. This is in fact separate from the discussion on the consultative referendum as such. Another point, which I will come to later, concerns Mr Van Hattem's question about how democratic it is to withdraw this instrument. That is precisely the ultimate form of democracy because the legislator is dealing with this. At the time, the legislator opted for the Advisory referendum Act and was also empowered to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u255	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u256	This is about the procedure, which can indeed be organized by democratic means. My question is about the expectations of politics, which, according to the Minister, would be a problem. It can also be dealt with democratically. Or they could be appreciated. That's what the Secretary of State is passing. You put the ball down completely in the referendum as an instrument, but it is precisely this element that is missing that if expectations are raised in a referendum, it is up to the politicians to live up to those expectations or not and to the electorate to express an appreciation of them. So what is the problem of the referendum as an instrument in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u257	Mr Van Hattem sketches a world in which something is white or black, but of course that is not the case. There's all kinds of shades of gray in there. That is precisely the problem here: the interpretation that we, as politicians, must give to both the commitment and the outcome of an advisory referendum. I am convinced that the previous cabinet at the Ukraine referendum has tried to do as well as possible for this cabinet too, but I doubt whether it will really be able to meet what was worth the verdict, because there is always an interpretation behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u258	I'm asking all MPs and spokesmen not to interrupt. I give the Minister the opportunity to make some meters with her answer. You know you all have a second term. So if you have anything else to ask: make a note and save it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u259	Mr. Chairman. Then perhaps it is best that I go straight to the answer of the questions. The interruptions have already brought to my attention what I wanted to say in my introduction. I would first like to comment on the reasons for the legislative proposal as such, then on the questions relating to the State Committee, then I would like to go over the legal technique on the basis of the questions raised and finally, this is also directly in response to the motions tabled. On the grounds of the proposal, I shall begin with a question put by Mr Engels. He asked me to respond to the compact analysis, which was already passed in the first part of our debate, that the consultative referendum not only evokes alienation from the electorate, as we have just discussed, but can also strengthen social and political contradictions rather than bridge them, which we would, of course, prefer to see. He also said that it could undermine confidence in state institutions and social trust. Let me summarize what he just said. Others have also spoken about this. Mr Koffeman cited Van der Meer, the decline in confidence through withdrawal. I come back to that point of alienation, it was just about as well. That is a fundamental objection. The government's review is not on an equal footing with the expectations of many voters following the holding of such a consultative referendum. If you continue to do so, this alienation and that misunderstanding could turn into a wider divide between the electorate and politics. That would not benefit confidence, is our thesis. This is something that the State Committee has also noted in the interim report: the risk of a greater distance between citizens and government. I will go into the state committee later. If Mr Engels asks me whether I share that analysis, my answer is: yes, because it is actually part of the support of the cabinet. I have just spoken with Mr Ten Hoeve about a more limited intervention. I have already argued that I do not think it will lead to a fundamentally better instrument, as long as it remains an advisory referendum. The same applies to Mr Lintmeijer, who asked whether it could be developed further. Mr Nagel asked the same question. So this is not the choice we made. It's hard to develop an instrument that's flawed in itself. We therefore opt for its abolition. Mr Sini asked why the evaluation provided for in the original legislative proposal was not awaited. It is not logical, if you first agreed to withdraw the instrument, that is to say, at the start of this cabinet, that it is politically agreed and substantiated, but that you want to wait for the evaluation. We've done the opposite now. We are taking the decision, which is based on the way in which I have just argued it, and are going to translate it carefully into a legislative proposal. An evaluation doesn't add much to that. I'm actually reversing the reasoning. Mr Van Hattem asked which instrument other than a full alternative. He said this at the interrupting microphone just now. He used the word "corrective." There is no corrective referendum. You have corrective referenda in two types: binding and non-binding. There was no political support for this binding corrective referendum in the vote. It is another instrument, because it removes the objection that there is in the consultative referendum. If there is no political support, it is not logical to maintain this instrument on its way to something else, which did not occur at the time. Then I will go to Mr Köhler on the same item. He asked if it would be a solution if the cabinet simply listened to the "no" instead of abolishing the law. We may have already discussed this with the interrupting microphone. I have already mentioned the results of national electoral research and its consultative nature. I'm afraid I'm repeating myself, but we've already discussed that. What I would like to add is Mr Schalk's question. He asked if the Minister could give a reflection on the Good Governance Code from a citizen's perspective. Good governance is about openness and participation. There's a code for good government. It describes, on the basis of a number of principles, how the government should work. It is very important that citizens always know what to expect from their government. I think the way in which the Cabinet has brought out this repeal law fits well within that code. As far as openness is concerned, that is, of course, the parliamentary treatment, the extensive treatment in the Lower House and now in the Upper House with all the questions that go with it; questions that are, of course, also asked as a result of the media's treatment. So there is maximum openness. As far as participation is concerned, this is a result of participation and the signals we have received from the National Voice Survey. This leads me to say that the Good Governance Code has been applied neatly and that I fully support the principles of openness and participation. I will come back to the law, but it seemed more logical to me to answer the questions about the state committee first. Several questions have been asked about this. For example, Mr Engels and Mrs Bikker asked questions about the timing of the bill in relation to the state committee. Mrs Bikker also made it very concrete and asked what concrete steps the cabinet would take. As far as the timing of the legislative proposal is concerned, the ambition is to give clarity to everyone as quickly as possible and not least to the electorate. If the Cabinet intends to withdraw the Advisory referendum Act, then there is no reason, other than carefully preparing a bill, to drag it through. That is not a question of unambiguous elimination. Mr. Engels used those words. No, it is a matter of giving certainty to the electorate through the parliamentary examination of the legislative proposal. It is good to note that when that clarity comes, it will then give room for a look at the future. That is going to give room to work hard, and I have heard the appeal of Mrs Bikker, Mr English and others well, with possible improvements to parliamentary democracy, of our democratic rule of law. I think that it always needs to be maintained and that this permanent attention deserves from us and certainly from me. That is why the suggestions for an agenda for democratic renewal appeal to me. I think they just asked me to. Of course, this cannot be seen in isolation from the report of the State Committee expected at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u260	A quick question. Could you give us some directions? You say: improving parliamentary democracy, an agenda; it was also requested by Mr Engels. So far, however, we have only heard the binding or corrective referendum. Do you have any other directions that might put us on the right track? What can help us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u261	You have seen that the cabinet is somewhat reluctant to respond to the content of the intervention that the Remkes Committee has just brought out, or a few weeks ago. I would like to point out that I think that the way in which the Remkes Committee operates is a very good way of working. It's not a committee that locks itself up and at the end comes out of a black box with the report. It is a committee which has twice given its agenda and also in the substantive direction that the committee is now taking through this intermediate position. I think that's very good. I think it's transparent. I find it refreshing. This method sees as much dialogue as possible with citizens, with Dutch people, but also with scientists, with political parties, in fact with anyone who can play a role in thinking about parliamentary democracy. I think that the same approach is in the interest of me as regards the content... It's really a very broad report. It is about very fundamental parts of our parliamentary democracy and not just about the binding corrective referendum. It's really more comprehensive than that. My hesitation is that if I now respond to parts of it, I will run into the committee. I don't want to. I would like to tell you that if the report is there, I can count on a warm welcome. There have, of course, been other state committees in the past. With me in the department, there still seems to be desk drawers full of those reports. But that's not my angle. My intention is that this should be on top of the pile and that we should get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u262	I understand very well that you have not yet gone into very much depth on the substance of the report of the State Committee, but I think that there have already been signals or questions to you or to the government: do you have an agenda outside the State Committee for improving parliamentary democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u263	Yeah, it's actually made up of two parts. The first part is the real strengthening of parliamentary democracy, the preparation of parliamentary democracy for the future. For this purpose, a state committee was set up on the initiative of this Chamber. That's important, I have to respect that and I expect a lot of it, so I'm waiting for that. Of course, I am in the process of strengthening parliamentary democracy. You may have seen that. I have put forward proposals for improving elections as such by ensuring greater transparency, for example by making the minutes public, by experimenting with new voting cards and by counting to ensure that those counts are reliable. The elections are essential in parliamentary democracy and deserve to be improved and even more reliable. I think that's an important agenda. I also said to Mrs Bikker, who is standing beside you, that local democracy also deserves a great deal of attention. For this purpose, plans have also been included in the coalition agreement, for example the right to challenge. I am also working on strengthening the city council through, for example, work on supporting city council members, by looking at the Law on the common regulations and by strengthening the control function of the municipal councils. I have a whole palette of parts that can all contribute to improving and strengthening our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u264	Are those your own desires and your own input? Or was that also spoken through in the cabinet itself? Is it a government position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u265	And then what? Excuse me for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u266	With regard to the plans you've just unfolded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u267	The plans I have just mentioned, for example for the elections and local democracy, are all proposals that have already gone to the Chamber, i.e. on behalf of the cabinet. It's my agenda, but as part of this cabinet's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u268	I am pleased to hear this and to see the Minister's plans a little bit. A minister with ambition who, even after the report of the State Commission, wants to work to strengthen representative democracy. I do ask her, in all the ambition she is going to show, to ensure that the reflection is right, that we do not automatically jump to "the referendum is the solution', but first analyse: what is going on and what does it mean for political parties, for example? Can the Minister say anything about this without interfering with the State Commission? I understand that, but I hope that the cabinet will show a great deal at this very point, also in view of the title of the coalition agreement, which is about trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u269	That is a very valid point. I have high expectations of what the committee is going to advise on this, because it certainly goes into that. We've already seen that. Political parties naturally have their own responsibility and their own views on this, as Mr Lintmeijer and Mrs Bikker have just pointed out. My view is that all groups across the board have to be addressed in one way or another in order to participate in democracy. The fact is that the turnout is relatively low in a number of elections. This is still the least true for the national elections, because it is actually quite reasonable there. During the previous municipal elections there was a small increase. Let's hope that's the trend up. But, for example, for the promotion of participation, I think it is very important that you look: what is going on, are there certain groups that are not reached, that are not motivated? It is part of national electoral research to better understand this and to see if you can do something about it with certain instruments ranging from communication to the law and regulation itself. That's definitely part of my agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u270	I hear the Minister putting forward all kinds of plans. There will be some sort of big turn of parliamentary democracy, a big maintenance. There are a lot of things that, just like a car, need to be dealt with in time anyway. But that doesn't change the fact that you're now taking that big turn, just to stay in car terms, pulling out the turbo and throwing a limiter on it. On 11 July, if this law were to be passed, that voter would have nothing at all as an alternative at that time. That turbo was taken off for the voter. What kind of equivalent alternative is there for the electorate within the existing system if this law is adopted, without everything you now envisage? I did not hear you mention that on the question of what you were going to deal with later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u271	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u272	Of course, I do not know what Mr Van Hattem thinks is an equivalent alternative. I would point out that we are talking here about withdrawing the national consultative referendum. The assessments on this issue vary. I understand that Mr Van Hattem is a big fan of the instrument. Others can look at that differently. Locally, of course, anything is still possible. Local referendums are just possible. It is the authority of the local government to use it. In this sense, it is not the case that a referendum in the Netherlands can never be held again. Locally, of course, it still can. I would also like to say to Mr Van Hattem that part of the agenda I am implementing is a proposal that came from his own party to the House of Representatives. This was about the disclosure of the minutes. We all have parts that we think are important. They all help to strengthen democracy and to take local steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u273	Of course there are good proposals. I'm the last one to deny that. The point is that you pass the ball by saying that referenda are still possible locally. But we are talking about national referendums. They're gonna be withdrawn with this. There is no equivalent alternative to that. In this way, citizens can no longer have an equal influence on the legislative process and its assessment. It is precisely this addition to representative democracy that is now being removed, without a full alternative being replaced by the present system. There's only a glimpse of what's gonna be on top of the pile, as you point out. That pile is already quite high, as you say. I fear that this pile will not be reduced and will only remain in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u274	That is the position of Mr Van Hattem. On the other hand, it is quite a flawed instrument. It is not, as he sketches, something that helps the electorate a lot, but something that has raised a lot of questions for many voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u275	We have now joined the agenda for democracy through the timing and the state committee. I'm glad. I've heard from the Minister that she wants to work on that. The report of the State Committee, which is important in this respect, can count on a warm welcome. She says she'd want to work with that. I asked for a perspective. I am not asking you to comment on all kinds of proposals that are now before us. They also concern only rural democracy and the parliamentary system. All the other, impressive work of the ministry at local level and elsewhere are of course beautiful, but I think this is a bit out of the question. I recognise the Minister's ambition and I believe it is, but I have had the impression from the explanatory statement and from the coalition agreement that the ambitions for the democratic agenda were almost zero at the start of the cabinet. There must therefore be a point of reference for the Minister to say that she wants to work with the State Commission, that the report is received warmly and that it does not disappear in a drawer like other reports. I know him. I do need a more specific explanation. Does the Minister think that she has enough room within the cabinet, given the start that was less ambitious, to really make a move in that direction? I mean a battle in the sense of perspective on new developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u276	I think it is important to recall how this state committee was created. A motion, adopted in this Chamber, has been the start of reflection on the future of our parliamentary democracy. That actually gives a lot of confidence. So that was not a wish of a cabinet, or of someone who had thought about it a little longer. No: that is a politically expressed wish in this Chamber, by means of a motion that led to the state committee. That's not even part of this cabinet's entry into office. When this cabinet took office, of course, we were aware that the Remkes Committee was working and would come forward with a report rather early in this cabinet period, of which we did not yet know exactly what might be in it. So yes, I see that perspective. Yes: this is also partly hanged on the Remkes Committee. I can assure Mr Engels that I will do everything I can and will prepare within the Ministry to ensure that when the report arrives we will provide it with a cabinet response. Mr Engels will, of course, have to assess whether that is ambitious enough in his view, on the basis of the cabinet response. But it will not be up to me, I say to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u277	That's good to hear. I also said in my speech that my group only considers a reference to the state committee to be very thin. I also said that, now that this proposal has been made in the government agreement and only by the cabinet, there could be the impression that the cabinet wanted to give priority to the Chambers because of the fact that the Chamber has taken an initiative for the parliamentary system committee and that, if it had not, the cabinet itself would have shown more ambition. The Minister is obviously saying: the assumption that we are already saying in advance that we will deal with the report politely but will not do so is far too premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u278	That would certainly be premature. Of course, I can't look into my head. I didn't sit at the table in the coalition negotiations. At the time I took office, one of the first discussions I had was the discussion with the chairman of the committee, to make sure that it was about what it was doing. From this point of view, I think it is important that we treat the committee's proposals very seriously. I also assumed this right away and involved myself in my own way of working and planning that the outcome of the Remkes Committee provides relevant advice for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u279	I had a question about another statement from the Minister. I understood what she said as a warm plea for local referendums as one of the means for democratic renewal. I don't understand that very well. Local referendums are always advisory or consultative by their nature. The Minister has just tried to make it clear to us that consultative referenda are fundamentally flawed and, by definition, can only lead to disappointments. It's local, isn't it? Wouldn't it be good in her logic if she warned the congregations about this and said: boys, these consultative referenda are going all wrong; you better delete them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u280	Of course, Mr Köhler should not put words in my mouth. I replied to a question by Mr Van Hattem, who said: the voter has nothing left. On the other hand, referenda are possible at local level. Moreover, I think that referenda at local level are often an excellent tool, because they are very concrete and clear. What kind of agreements the city council makes about whether or not to follow the results is up to local government. So I'm gonna leave that there with peace of mind. Mr Köhler is now drawing a conclusion that he cannot draw on the basis of what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u281	There'll be two more MPs I'll give both of you one chance to interrupt. Mrs. Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u282	I understand from the commitment you have just made to Mr Engels that you will personally commit yourself to getting the results of the State Committee on the Cabinet agenda. So what you're saying here isn't a cabinet position? Is that your personal commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u283	I'm expressing my commitment. What I am saying is that the state committee is broadly politically desirable. She's coming up with some advice. That advice will be followed by a cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u284	Oh, yeah. We should hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u285	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u286	Furthermore, we are actually talking about the state committee and those plans all the time. We do not know at all what they will look like in concrete terms. I would therefore perhaps prefer to focus the debate again on the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u287	I'd be happy to, but a lot of questions have been asked about this. So I thought I would do justice to the questions that came out of your Chamber by going into them in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u288	We're going to see Mr. Sini. He was allowed to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u289	The Minister says that the State Commission can count on a warm welcome. But what does she do with what the committee itself says about its solutions? It wants it to be seen in conjunction and in balance. Suppose the committee says that the consultative referendum is an important instrument. What's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u290	So Mr Sini states that the Remkes Committee might say that the consultative referendum is a good tool. That's the thesis? Well, thanks to the committee's working methods, we know that this is not the direction in which the committee works. That is precisely where it was said about the consultative referendum that it increases the gap between politics and the citizen rather than improves confidence. So I'm assuming that's how it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u291	Mr. Sini, you want to respond to this again, but I said one interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u292	That's right. One.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u293	You've had it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u294	That's premature, isn't it? Why doesn't the Minister force the patience to let that committee do its job? Because of course the committee can also change its mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u295	I'm very patient. And Mr Sini is quite right; I do not want to anticipate the results of the Remkes Committee. But on the basis of what we have seen so far, let me say it carefully. Surely it would be extremely unlikely that the committee would suddenly make a completely different proposal on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u296	Mr. Sini, you want to respond again, but this is the answer. Not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u297	Mr. Chairman. Let me then answer a question from Mr Sini, as an satisfaction for the fact that he is no longer allowed to intervene. He also called for attention to be paid to the involvement of the citizen. That was also a question in relation to the Remkes Committee. I have just said that the whole approach of the committee is aimed at involving as many Dutch people as possible during the preparation of the report. I really commend the committee for that, because I think that is a really innovative and very good approach. So it's not just about professors, it's about the political parties, the citizens and anyone who wants to talk about parliamentary democracy. We'd had the highly educated. Mr President, Mrs Lokin-Sassen hinted that we should not go on for too long about the state committee, but I would just like to check that I have answered the questions. Well, I guess I did, and I'm sure someone's gonna tell me it's not. I shall go back to the Advisory referendum Act and more to its technical content and design. Mr Nagel said that if the current law were to apply, a referendum on the repeal law should be possible. The cabinet has stated that if the legislator wants to abolish an instrument, it is not logical to subject that instrument that you have just abolished to the same instrument that you have abolished. That is the inherent logic and the substance of the reason for not allowing a consultative referendum on this issue. We have said this for the cabinet on a number of occasions. And the explicit mention in the legal text is the usual method when the later law deviates from the earlier law. He was also mentioned at the time by the legislator, when the Advisory referendum Act was introduced. This is basically the reasoning that the cabinet has always given, and Mr Engels actually wanted to see that motivated even more. In fact, I think I will return to the reasoning at the beginning of my term and to the consultative nature of the consultative referendum. Mrs Lokin called it "the intrinsic dilemma." I would also like to make it quite clear that this was also followed in 2002 by the legislative proposal to repeal the temporary referendum law. Mr Engels argues on this point. He asked whether the failure to submit the repeal of this law could not lead to alienation from the electorate. If you're gonna go on like that, I'd put two things in opposite directions. One: the legislator can and can make this choice without consulting the electorate, because the consultative referendum has been introduced by the legislator and can therefore also be abolished by the legislator. And the second recital is the following. Someone also argued and said: what would happen if it were ultimately designed for an advisory referendum? In my view, a consultative referendum on the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act in the event of a negative ruling and a reached turnout threshold would be much more damaging to confidence in politics than it is now, now that maximum clarity is given to that same voter at the front. So that's what the cabinet chose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u298	To understand and reduce the next deadline, I ask for the following. The logic that is supposed to be mentioned by some groups here, and also within my group, is that you should hold an advisory referendum on the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. I'm paying very close attention to my terms right now. The Minister says: but the logic used by the cabinet not to do it properly is to indicate precisely in the direction of society that the cabinet takes society seriously, and that it contributes to strengthening citizens' confidence in politics and in political institutions. Should I understand that the logic of the cabinet is stronger in this way than the logic of those who want a different consistency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u299	What Mr Engels is saying is precisely mirrored by the opposite, namely that the holding of an advisory referendum on that instrument that the legislator has just withdrawn could damage confidence. That is why I support Mr Engels in his argument that the opposite, namely to clarify it immediately, indeed improves and strengthens confidence rather than not. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u300	Do I understand from the Minister's words that citizens' confidence would fall or lose even further if a referendum were to be held? Should I understand from those words that the government has already decided that the outcome would be put aside, even if a referendum were to be held and the outcome would be negative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u301	Then we come back to the fundamental objection that exists against the Advisory referendum Act, namely that a 'no' voter merely leads to a review, not a withdrawal. Once again, in any other case, I would not go into the argument, but in this case I make an exception. Suppose the cabinet says that we do not think this consultative referendum Act is a good instrument and we want to withdraw it, so that is our proposal. Suppose an advisory referendum would then be held. Of course, I do not know by what percentages the turnout threshold would be reached, but suppose that it would be met and that there would be a majority in favour of not repealing the law. This should lead to a review of the cabinet position. Well, if we keep following our own reasoning, we'll keep it up and that review wouldn't be that we'd rescind the withdrawal law. That's a bit of the saddest-effect I've ever talked about, because theoretically you can of course continue to do so endlessly. Doesn't that help anyone at all? We do need to be honest about this instrument and about the shortcomings of the instrument, and to continue looking for other ways to strengthen that parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u302	That means that the Minister is actually saying: there is no point in making the consultative referendum referendable, because the decision is for the future. I think that would be a clear conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u303	Once again, it is an als-dan reasoning, but Mr Schalk is actually going along in my logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u304	The Minister is actually saying: if a referendum were to be held, if there were to be a review and if it did not follow the outcome of the referendum, it would damage confidence in the politics. What does the Minister mean by politics? Isn't that just the government that says a priori not to listen to the voters? Do you not damage that confidence in advance by saying that we do not want to respond to what is being done, because we do not want a referendum at all? Has this confidence not already been damaged and are you not already going in the wrong direction with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u305	No. Again, the legislator decides. The basis of the legislator is our parliamentary democracy. I think that giving maximum clarity at the beginning is just good for confidence. The legislator decides. I find the suggestion that a consultative referendum could lead to a deviation from this, potentially far more damaging than the opposite. So I do not agree with Mr Van Hattem's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u306	I think that is a special argument: it gives more confidence in advance. All the reactions and the flood of e-mails that we have received over the last few days from a lot of Dutch voters show precisely that confidence is damaged by not holding a referendum on the repeal of the law. That would damage confidence in politics in general, but first and foremost in government, much harder than you are now describing in a possible scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u307	I don't think so. Of course, there are many different opinions. I think that's very good, too. This morning I saw Mr Dubbelboer on the doorstep and congratulated him on his perseverance. I think that is very good, because there are, of course, different views. But that does not alter the fact that ultimately the legislator is responsible for weighing up. I think it is good that the cabinet has created clarity and said that if the legislator chooses to repeal the law on the consultative referendum, that is also the final judgment of the legislator and that the instrument then no longer exists. I think that is clear to the voters, including those who would prefer to see things differently. There are of course all kinds, tastes and views on consultative referenda and corrective binding referenda. I am well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u308	Would it be possible, in the hypothetical case of a referendum on the law of withdrawal, with a ruling from the electorate that the law could be better enforced rather than abolished, for the government to decide at that time to follow the will of the electorate? Or does the Minister rule that out in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u309	No. I said it was a hypothetical case. It took a while to think whether it was wise to rule out referendability or not. In that regard, the cabinet considered that it was better to rule out referendibility, because we believe that in the imaginary case that would be the case, that would raise more questions than would answer them. So we didn't choose to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u310	I know, but that didn't answer my question. In that hypothetical case, would it also be possible for the government to follow the ruling of the electorate? Or do you wish to rule that out in advance, even before such a hypothetical referendum takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u311	I'll try one more time. I think Mr Köhler and I simply disagree. The objection to the consultative referendum is that it should only lead to a review. It is not logical to hold an advisory referendum on the repeal law consultative referendum. That's inherently an illogical thing to do. I have just said that in the hypothetical case that you would and there would be a verdict from the voters saying: 'We do not really know whether that repeal law should go ahead', which should lead to a reconsideration of the cabinet. But that is the same cabinet that just before argued that the instrument as such has fundamental flaws. Then we should go through the same exercise: interpreting the voter's statement. Again, I find it extremely hypothetical and I do not think it wise to do so either. I think that you are telling the electorate something, and the chance of doing something about it is very small, as we have just defended in the Second and First Chambers to abolish that instrument. So I stand by the logic chosen by the cabinet. I understand very well if Mr Köhler chooses a different logic, but that is not mine. Then there's the legal effectiveness. Questions have been asked about this by Mr Sini, Mr Lintmeijer and others. They said good governance is more than legal effectiveness. I totally agree with them on that. However, I have just argued that the proposal made by the Cabinet is entirely in line with the code of good public administration in terms of openness, accountability and response to signals received by the Cabinet. The fact that this legal form has been chosen reflects the competence of the legislator through the Constitution. The review of this is then a matter for the Council of State, which I think is important, and I think that this is judged legally effective by the Council of State. I'm really committed to the cabinet being accountable. I believe that this is what we are doing in the Chambers in the parliamentary treatment of the legislative process so far. We do so as widely as possible, because that is also part of good governance. The wording 'legally effective'........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At that time, the Council of State had opted for a different procedure. They said then that you could opt for the emergency procedure, as a way to ensure that no referendum can be held on the repeal law. The Council of State has come back from this and has said that this is a better way: simply to include openly in the legislative proposal as such. That is a clear signal from the Council of State that I have interpreted it as meaning that the chosen route is legally the correct route. I believe that this has also been confirmed by a number of state lawyers who have been consulted by your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the transitional right. Mrs Bikker had a question about that. She suggested that it might have been a more generous right of transition. I get that. She was talking about empathy with the legislator. I understand. But the transitional provision contained in the repeal law is, in my view, rather generous. It says: if the signatures are there, then that is an isolated fact and then you should allow that consultative referendum to continue. It is now the case that this situation does not occur in practice. I would also like to make that point. There are now no referenceable laws in the process of obtaining statements of support. I hope that will also reassure Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u312	Fortunately, I would almost say, because it put a very nasty clamp and pressure on the treatment. The Minister is now making a different statement than that it is, in my view, a matter of transitional law. If the signatures had been collected, but the deadline had not yet expired, the applicants would not have received a referendum. I am not so much concerned with how this has been done, but I am concerned about the fact that the legislator is not too rigid and calls for resistance that is unnecessary. The purpose of the transitional right is precisely to ensure that a law makes a good landing in society rather than that all hairs stand on their necks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u313	Yeah, I get that, but we chose to be as clear as possible. Mrs Bikker is absolutely right: if the request for the consultative referendum is in the final stage, because you know that the signatures are there and that has been noted, then we should continue to do so; we should not do anything about it. It seemed to me, also for setting the rules of the game, the fairest thing to do. If you sit down earlier, you might be able to have another discussion about the exact stage in which such an application would be made. From the cabinet's side, we did not want to put any time constraints on that. But again, I think it does indeed help that it is also true that there are currently no routes in that direction. The construction of retroactivity is actually simply the legal effect of the choice to ensure that there is no referendability. The construction of the retroactive effect therefore ensures that the withdrawal proposal from the time of ratification does not fall within the scope of the Advisory referendum Act. That is simply a technical construction of the substantive choice that has been made. As a result of this retroactive effect, no referendum procedure can be initiated on the repeal law. That too is simply a valid approach which the Council of State has also approved. Mr. Chairman. Then I came to the end of answering Members' questions. The last thing I would like to say is to look at the questions that have been asked and the motions that have been tabled on the issue under the courts. What we now know is that in the professional claim judgment is given on July 4, so that's tomorrow. In the main, the decision will be taken at a later date, namely on 1 August. I do not see any need to hold on to either the examination or the ratification of this bill. The reasoning I follow in this respect is indeed of a constitutional nature. The Constitution provides a legal framework for the bodies in the legislative process. The King's ratification of the law is part of that. For the sake of ratification, the current practice is that the First Chamber offers the accepted bill directly to the King. The prime minister is only once again in the face of the so-called counter-seigneur. That is also the position of the State in that case. It is not up to the government to maintain the ratification of the government's proposal on its own. The ordinary procedure: First Chamber, King. Well, I would add that it is the normal course of events that government proposals adopted by the States-General are endorsed and come into force. So those are the roles. I conclude that there is a trial on the one hand and a legislative procedure on the other. Here is simply the rule of law of the separation of powers. The judge and the legislator each have their own responsibility. The legislator may have consequences for a judge's ruling, but the legislator does not have to hold up his own procedures to await the judge's ruling. I think this could also be quite crippling for other legislative processes. I would, however, like to assure the Chamber that I will inform you of the ruling of 4 July. This means that your Chamber was able to take note of this prior to the vote on the bill. With this detailed explanation, Mr President, I should like to say that I must discourage the three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u314	I hear the Minister saying that we are not self-sufficient and that we are not concerned with the decision of 4 July, because the decision on abolishing the referendum is part of the decision of 1 August. The Minister has written and just repeated that she will not do so on her own. My question is this. There is now one or even two motions asking the government to hold the matter until after the ruling on 1 August. If the Chamber makes such a request to the Government, is the Government prepared to comply with that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u315	Well, I have just dissuaded the motions, so you may conclude that the government is not in favour of doing what is in the motion, not even on this point. But I also referred to a starting point in our democratic rule of law, namely the separation of powers. I think it is important that we keep an eye on this: there are different responsibilities and it is not customary for the legislator to change his own procedures or in this case to wait for a judge's ruling. This could have a rather paralyzed effect on the functioning of our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u316	I will come back to it in the second term, because what is at stake is the following. The procedure can of course be followed, but we must have the purity and, in my opinion, the decency to say: we are waiting for the judge's ruling. Because if that statement unhoped for the government to roll the other side, no chunks have been made. Why shouldn't the First Chamber ask the government for that care and not get it from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u317	What the First Chamber does, of course, is to the First Chamber. My advice when it comes to the legislative process is: 1. what the First Chamber is about is also about ratification, and of course that is up to the Chamber to decide. But it's not customary to hold on to that. I also think, respecting the principle of the separation of powers, that it is not wise to proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u318	It is precisely from the point of view of the separation of powers that it is essential that the judge in this case has declared the applicant party admissible, with which a case against the State of the Netherlands on this bill is before the court as an admissible document. So it is precisely in the interests of that separation of powers to take all due account of that. Because what happens if the plaintiff is upheld by the judge? Then it may be that not only is this bill to be repealed and resurrected, but it also affects all the legislative proposals that are subsequently adopted during the period that this bill has been repealed and all the other legislative proposals have been adopted without any reference being made to it. Are these laws valid? Should these laws be re-decided? What legal consequences will this have for all the legislation in the interim period? Is it not simply a state-law vacuum and should it not and cannot it not be prevented by delaying the contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u319	With all due respect, it's about the role of the legislator. The First Chamber can vote anytime it wants. You can do that if you know what the verdict will be on 4 July, which is about ratification. So I'll give you that. But it is up to your Chamber to decide when to vote. If there is a vote and the legislative proposal has been passed, then it is natural, of course, to proceed with ratification. It would be very weird not to do that. That is what I have just followed that state-law reasoning: we need to see these two things separated. Of course, it is important what kind of judgments judges make, but it is also important that ordinary legislative pathways can take place. It seems to me that it is really impure to wait for ratification because of a judge's ruling which you do not yet know what it is and which, moreover, is still subject to appeal. So I really wouldn't advise you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u320	This is also a special legislative process, because this is a law on the legislative process and has implications for all other laws. If this is revoked by a judge, if the law suddenly revives, then it has consequences for all those other laws. What is the Minister's view of the consequences of all these other laws? How are we supposed to deal with that? Isn't this just a state-law vacuum? We need to be clear about this, otherwise we will not be able to make a careful decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u321	You must decide...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u322	Mrs Bikker, additional to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u323	My question is additional: does the Minister also want to involve the precedent of other laws being passed, of which certain groups go to court and how we deal with them? This is in addition to what Mr Van Hattem asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u324	What Mrs Bikker just said is exactly the point I'm trying to make. The precedent is the blocking of the parliamentary system. The legislator decides something and then has to ratify it. You shouldn't have that blocked by another trajectory or another power. We must, of course, have as much respect for this power as we do for the legislative power. But it's really a different and separate trajectory. If you allow ratification of legislation to depend on cases that are under the courts, that is potentially very blocking for all the legislation that is being passed. That's why I strongly advise you not to go that way. That is not customary and not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u325	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u326	I have still not heard a response to the risk of a state-law vacuum, should it happen. This, as I said, is not an ordinary law, but a law that deals with the legislative process. The precedent effect on other laws will therefore be very limited, because there are not so many laws that deal with legislative pathways. This request has been declared admissible by the court and thus the State of the Netherlands is part of a legal procedure that may have an impact on our legislative process. I would therefore like to see the Minister's views on this point in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u327	I understand from Mr Van Hattem's remark that he has placed his hopes on the judge. That's good to hear from someone from the PVV. I really don't see it that way. On this point, I would point out the separation of powers. I think that the legislator should simply end the normal course of action and should not take into account at the moment a ruling that lies somewhere further in the future, far too far away from the ratification of the legislative proposal that your Chamber is about to vote on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u328	You were done answering your question, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u329	Yes, Mr. Chairman, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u330	Thank you. I'm looking at the clock. I hear you, Mrs Huijbregts, saying 'half an hour earlier' and you are right: we are half an hour earlier than the schedule indicated. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u331	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group wonders what we have actually learned from the answer given by the Minister in the first term. In particular, I have heard a repetition of the moves that have already been made in the written rounds. We heard the story of a fundamental flaw in the consultative referendum and that it is not the voter's fault, but the instrument and the expectations of the electorate's politicians. In short, the same mantra has been resurrected by the Minister. So this political mantra of the Minister has not made us much wiser. Nor can I honestly imagine that D66, the party that had previously cast the necessary doubts and the party that said in many statements in the past that after decades there was 'final referendum', has become convinced. I cannot imagine that there has now been real clarity in the different logics and that there is now a firm logic as to why the referendum should be withdrawn. I cannot imagine that D66 is convinced of this and I would like to hear from them whether they are convinced and for what reasons. And if they are indeed convinced, how can they still look the voter straight in the eye after 20 years of prying? The same applies to their minister. Because does their minister stand for the program that Democrats '66 was founded for in 1966? Does their minister stand for the crown jewels? Who the hell is she in here for anyway? Is this just the story of a compromise or is this a minister who really stands for democratic renewal? I am afraid that it will turn out that the little bit of political innovation with the referendum, the instrument given to the electorate, will be carried to the grave. So my appeal to D66 and to Mr English is: be the saving English and save the referendum. Then I'll join the CDA. They deserve a little response. Mrs Lokin has given a lot of reflections on the remedially binding referendum as a possible solution. I am very curious whether the CDA is finally going to stand firm and actually support the remedially binding referendum in the future, or what Mrs Lokin has said today is merely a pacifier for the voters to justify the withdrawal today. Can we expect the CDA to support the referendum now, or is it going to wave it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u333	You'll hear from Mrs. Lokin, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u334	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u335	Yes, I'm being challenged, Madam President. I have never said that we are in favour of a decision-making referendum. You don't hear me say that. If you follow the Minutes, you will see that I did not say so. All I have said is that the intrinsic flaw of the consultative referendum is in the consultative, in the non-binding. If you really want to give the electorate direct participation, other than through a representative democracy, then a decisive, decisive referendum could be a means. I have also said that we will examine the proposals of the State Committee in an open and thorough manner, but no concrete proposal has yet been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u336	I'm hearing another retreating movement from the CDA. The question, of course, is: does the CDA want to support that direct democracy, that direct influence of the electorate? Or is this just a theoretical suggestion that is being given now so that the consultative referendum can be buried and you can finally say with a theoretical perspective: well, we're going to have a good look at what the state committee comes up with and, like all the previous state committees, we're going to put that on the big pile and then we're not going to do anything with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u337	It's short. Not a retreating movement, but a repetition of what I have said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u338	Okay. So that doesn't make us very much wiser either. In any case, the voter does not have to rely on the CDA to enable direct democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u339	Despite some serious differences of opinion with the PVV, I welcome the warm words for democracy. At the same time, I have also talked about the reflection that we as parties themselves must have on our democratic and representative content. How does the PVV spokesperson reflect on that democratic aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u340	As a PVV, we are a strong democratic party. With us, the voter is central. The electorate must be put in an optimal position and this can be achieved thanks to referenda. Thanks to referendums, the electorate can exercise direct democratic influence. We are very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u341	Everything that is external must be very democratic, but as soon as it gets closer, the PVV suddenly becomes silent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u342	Perhaps you should focus your reflections on all the other parties which have supposedly internal party democracy. We're talking about the voter. We are concerned with the direct influence of the electorate with referendums. That's what we're talking about today. That referendum will be withdrawn with your support. That's much worse. You must look in the mirror at democracy. You are taking away a democratic instrument from the electorate. How undemocratic you can be!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u343	Mrs Bikker, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u344	In the first place, I said that the reflection on how to strengthen representative democracy concerns us all. I have different views on this than Mr Van Hattem, but I have made it quite clear that I will also look at myself and my own party. I am sorry that Mr Van Hattem is simply rejecting him. White and black aren't the only colors in this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u345	But very black and white is what we will be voting on next week, unless our motion is adopted: for or against. The Christian Union has already indicated its opposition to the referendum. You reject the referendum, you take away a democratic instrument from the electorate. So again, how undemocratic can you be? The PVV does opt for democracy in principle. We give the electorate the referendum instrument in full conviction, both at national and local level. That's our priority. Finally, Mr President. The questions we have asked have been addressed by the Minister with the same mantra. Nevertheless, my question about the More Democracy Foundation's trial remains very relevant. Because what if the judge still makes a ruling in favour of the More Democracy Foundation? You'll get a state-law vacuum, won't you? I have not yet heard the Minister's answer on how to deal with it, should that happen. I think that we can have the necessary problems, and we will have to do something with this in order to be careful. It's too easy to say that the case is under the judge and we're just not saying anything about it. In view of proportionality too, it is too heavy a measure to repeal this law already and not allow a referendum on the referendum. This goes against all the good principles of legal certainty and proportionality. That is why the PVV will absolutely not be able to support this bill. Mr. Chairman. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u346	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u347	Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, listened with great interest to D66, as always. With some seasoned politicians in this room, we saw a reaction in the vein of: well, well, they have quite a few objections and reservations. But how's that gonna work out? I'll give you a little analysis. D66 says you have to make a choice between two referenda. The government says: either or not, no choice. That is completely contradictory. To know what D66 hopes for, I quote from Mr Engels' speech: "We also doubt whether there would be any prospect of a qualified majority for the introduction of a binding corrective referendum. It must nevertheless be possible to develop a legislative proposal acceptable in substance." So they believe there is a majority in favour. But what does his own government say? He says in the response of 9 May 2018: there is no majority in favour of a binding referendum. So let's not fool each other either. In the reply of 29 June, the government makes very clear about the report which D66 apparently has expectations of: the report does not give rise to a new situation. So the rejection remains in full effect. Then you can ask the government to leave some space and create some space, but if you know in advance how far the hares will be allowed to walk within that space, you also know where they'll end up. I think the same applies to the next point. D66 rightly notes that holding a referendum on the referendum is a legitimate route on the one hand, but D66 also has great hesitations on the other. Mr Engels points out that D66 has concerns and shares the objections, but I have not heard any concessions from the government on this point, as far as I have heard. So my question to D66 is whether they would like to go into this point in the second term. Then there's the motion. That has already been said. We withdraw the previous motion because we do not have an editorial amendment. With a few more signatures below it than in the first round, we retable the slightly modified motion, so that it is fully part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u348	Is this motion to replace the previous motion, Mr. Nagel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u349	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u350	The motion-Nagel c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on 20 June last there was a hearing on the abolition of the referendum before the Hague Court, initiated by the More Democracy Foundation against the State of the Netherlands;]] [[having regard to the decision of the Court of Justice on 1 August;]] [[Whereas there is no urgent reason for the repeal law to enter into force earlier than 1 August next;]] [[calls on the Government not to ratify Bill 34854 before the said ruling is known,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Nagel, Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Köhler.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u351	Mr. Chairman. The minister couldn't convince us. Of course, we are sensitive to the argument of a possible precedent, but in this case it is really an exception. They want to make it impossible to hold a referendum on the referendum. There is a wide demand in the country to make that possible, even within D66. There are hundreds of letterwriters. We would also point out that there is no reason why this law should be in the Official Journal five minutes after it was voted on on 10 July. There's nothing to worry about if that happens on August 1st. In the meantime, nothing can happen. I didn't hear any urgent argument. It's kind of careful to do that. We therefore avoid the consequences that exist in the event that the judge comes to another judgment. I think that fits with the care of the First Chamber. That is why we insist strongly on this motion. For the rest, voters will have to wait and see what happens to the vote on 10 July next week, with little consolation that a correction can be made to that in March next year. But we'll see that again when this Chamber is going to be changed very much, that's my prediction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u352	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts-Schiedon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u353	Mr. Chairman. The VVD thanked the Minister for the clear response and, in particular, for the reflection she gave on the instrument of the consultative referendum, which led to the present proposal. Today's debate shows broad support for a renewal agenda for the parliamentary system, although the necessary debate will still take place on the instruments that will lead to this renewal. It is clear that the abolition of the consultative referendum marks the beginning of the search for a new toolbox to keep our democracy future-proof. Mr. Chairman. One of the arguments why the VVD was against the consultative referendum at the time is that we regard this as a one-sided instrument from the past that does not focus on the bottlenecks of the present and there is a chance for the future. The aim is to give citizens the feeling of being heard again, but the design and implementation of the desired involvement is limited to a blunt yes or no at the end of the procedure. It is not an input or inspiration for politics, but an assessment of an already democratic decision. In the interim position of the State Commission, there are many lines of thought. "Rip and green," I called them. Traditional thinking lines are mentioned, including I support the referendum, but there are also a few new ideas that the committee says it will come back to in its final report. The VVD is looking forward to these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u354	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers to our questions. We have asked the Minister why the government decides to abolish the consultative referendum and not choose to maintain and improve the referendum where necessary. She talks about local experiences in favorable terms. Isn't there something to learn from that that can be used to improve the national consultative referendum? I would ask the Minister to go into that again. The question is also why the government remains impatient when it comes to the final report of the State Commission. Why can't she wait to see whether the consultative referendum can be weighted as part of the opinions of the state committee? We continue to question the government's support for this bill. Incomprehensible is also the rush that must be accompanied by this. We also believe that the time limit for the consultative referendum to prove itself too short to draw any conclusions, as the Minister has asked. That is why I am tabling a motion to investigate the effects and effectiveness of the Advisory referendum Act. It is also important to include the position of practically literate people. It would be nice if this study would also be included in the discussion of the final report of the State Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u356	There was a television programme a few decades ago, in which someone was always given something. Then it was said: oh, my lovely assistant. I understand you called in your lovely assistant to give me the motion, Mr. Sini. You may be very grateful for your lovely assistant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u357	After a year and a half in this beautiful house, I still feel like a bridge peeper. I'm still learning. The President shall: Mr Sini, Mr Köhler, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Nagel, Mr Koffeman and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to repeal the Advisory referendum Act while at the same time abolishing its referendability without examining the law on effectiveness and effects and reporting to the Chamber;]] [[Whereas Article 123 of the Advisory referendum Act requires the Government to send a report to the States General on the effectiveness and effects of this law in practice three years after its entry into force;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the effectiveness and effects of the Advisory referendum Act and to inform this Chamber within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u358	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Engels on his maiden speech as chairman of the political group. You'll just have to do it: on behalf of the D66 Group in a friendly conversation with the minister of D66 about abolishing the only national referendum we have in the Netherlands. His input has also yielded something, namely a commitment to an agenda for democratic renewal. It is an empty government agenda for the time being, except for a few points on improving voting procedures. Still, it's a start, let's just say. Mr Engels has also said 'I am not quoting him literally now, but paraphrase that it must be possible to obtain sufficient support for a binding corrective referendum. I am glad that D66 is still on our side in this Chamber on this point. As far as the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act is concerned, that remains to be seen. I'm very curious to hear his contribution to this term, which we're still getting. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased with the debate I had with Mrs Huijbregts-Schiedon in the first term on how the consultative referendum and the binding referendum were linked in the Advisory referendum Act. It is, of course, the case that the Chamber is a referee in this debate. But we also have a VAR in this case. Let me put it in English, because unfortunately it is in English: video assistant referee. That's what I'm gonna translate for Mrs. Lokin, a video assistant referee. That referee was Mrs. Lokin herself. She decided that my goal was valid and she confirmed the interpretation that the absence of a binding referendum on the basis of the Wrr was not a reason to abolish the consultative referendum. Thank you for that, Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u359	Was it watched in Moscow, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u360	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u361	Were they watching it in Moscow? It's happening in Moscow now. At the World Football Championship, the VAR is held in Moscow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u362	Well, our contacts in Moscow have never been so good from my party, historically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u363	As you know, in a very, very distant past, we were more related to Beijing than to Moscow. But even after the many changes of power in Moscow, our contacts have never been very good with governments in power there. So I don't know, Mr. Chairman. I don't know. But I would not ask Mr Makkelie to settle this debate either. Mr. Chairman. The other argument put forward by the government for repealing the Advisory referendum Act, namely that the consultative referendum should almost lead to disappointment among the voters, is still not sufficiently substantiated by my group. I do not think we need to repeat the arguments. We find the arguments put forward by the Minister flimsy, and we do not think that this has improved in our view. But the Minister has sharpened it a little bit. In fact, she said: well, the whole consultative referendum is by definition, fundamentally flawed, because it creates expectations among the voters that do not come true, and it only creates more aversion against the democratic process. I've been thinking about that. Is that a strong argument? I compared it to the general election, the Lower House elections. The last time the parties who wanted to abolish the consultative referendum were in the minority; they together had a minority in the Lower House elections. However, the government coalition is now putting forward a proposal to raise the minority voter's representation to the law. We regret that. That'll be obvious. But that is not a reason for us to want to abolish the elections to the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. It is worth noting that the government is drawing conclusions on the functioning of the consultative referendum without seeking to base a more detailed assessment on it. I have therefore also signed Mr Sini's motion, which has just been read out. In any case, it is useful, even if the Advisory referendum Act is repealed now, to carry out a thorough review of that law, even in the run-up to the debate on the report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. Mr. Chairman. I also find it particularly regrettable that the Minister does not want to make the bill referendable. We consider the arguments on that point to be quite different. Our main argument is that the electorate must also be able to express its opinion on the withdrawal of a democratic right that they now have. Our second argument is that the repeal law, with Articles 5 and 6 having retroactive effect, is legitimate, but that these are legal tricks which undermine the due diligence required by legislation. The Wrr itself provided that, if it were to be abolished, that decision would also be subject to a referendum. We are now saying through Articles 5 and 6: yes, but we are going to reverse that for a while, because that does not make any sense. No, it made sense. It was even foreseen in the Wrr that a referendum on its abolition should also take place. Therefore, on behalf of Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks, Mr Koffeman van de Partij voor de Dieren, Mr Nagel van 50PLUS, Mr Ten Hoeve van de OSF and Mr Sini van de Partij van de Labor, I am presenting a motion asking the government to come forward with a proposal to amend the law of withdrawal for the Advisory referendum Act in such a way as to make this law referendable. The President shall: Mr Köhler, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Sini proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are no convincing arguments for not making the Law Repeal of the Advisory referendum Act referendable in accordance with the Advisory referendum Act;]] [[also considering that the legislative proposal repealing the Advisory referendum Act applied legal "artificial arrangements" in order not to make this law referendable;]] [[further considering that this undermines the due diligence required in the legislative process;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to amend the Law repealing the Advisory referendum Act in such a way as to make this law referendable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u364	I have a question for Mr Köhler. In fact, he's asking for a novelle, but that could mean that the minister comes up with an adjustment that doesn't come through the House of Representatives. This would mean that we would not be able to abolish the consultative referendum. That would be a shame, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u365	Yeah, that could all be the case. It has often occurred that for reasons not yet discussed in the Lower House, the First Chamber asked the Minister to come up with a novelle, although it has no right of amendment. In all these cases, we assumed that the House of Representatives would follow. Even in the Advisory referendum Act, that was the case. This Chamber then asked for a novelle, assuming that the House of Representatives would follow it. But if this motion were to be adopted and the Minister would continue the matter and come up with a novella first, the Minister would of course have every right to refer the original law back here if the House of Representatives did not wish to make those adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u366	Thank you again, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u367	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, which, and was bound to do so, was constantly circling around the fundamental lack of the consultative referendum. The difference between the Minister and me was, of course, that we draw different consequences from that observation. The minister says she chooses the rigorous option: we abolish it. I would say: that is very rigorous; does not a referendum have any advantages? So let's be more careful about that and not raise all that resistance that this raises right now. Adjust it! If we make things less referendable and let go of a different norm on them, the effect of this will, I am sure, be that there will be less real fundamental problems for a government due to referendum results. That's profit. If the higher standards show that there is really massive resistance in the population to legislation, the government is probably doing something about it. That's the first point. That would be the consequence for me: adaptation rather than abolition. A second point is the referendability of this law. The Minister says she does not want to have a referendum on this because she really wants to abolish it. She also says: if I know that in advance, then I also know that if I do not vote in the referendum, I have to go against it and decide otherwise. This is in itself a consistent shipowner. If you know in advance that you want to do so, you better not hold the referendum. I can follow that reasoning. Embroidering in my other way of drawing consequence from the system as such, I would also choose another solution here. I would say that the government is putting forward a law abolishing the consultative referendum. I'm sure that's what the government wants. Then we let go of the normal course of events. Then we have a good chance that there will be a referendum. Then it is important that we ask ourselves what wisdom is in that case. If we choose that road, we'll be past August 1st. Then the next problem is solved at the same time. That is perhaps wise, because I think Mr Van Hattem is right. This is, of course, legislation that deals with a legislative procedure. You could indeed have problems with that if you abolish it and come back to it later. In the meantime, more has changed than just that. That could be a problem. So far. That is what the positions are. In fact, that also determines my voting behaviour in the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u368	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the extremely clear answer. Mr. Chairman. Let's be clear. For the Christian Union, the consultative referendum has never been an appropriate instrument within our representative democracy. At the same time, I have stressed that this does not mean that we are closing our eyes to the shortcomings of our democracy. It's always good to look at improvements. In this sense, we look forward to further reflection by the state committee. Our concern is in particular at the point where low-educated voters really experience a distance from politics. That is why I am not yet closing the door to a possible binding corrective referendum. I would just like a little bit more from the Minister on how she sees it, also in relation to the opinion of the State Committee. I would like to stress that it is particularly important to analyse carefully how this gap is created and what it maintains. It must be said that jumping to the instrument of a corrective referendum is not necessarily the solution. I'm pretty sure about that. It is not a miracle tool to involve low-skilled voters much better. I hope that the Minister, who has already responded enthusiastically, will make a commitment that she will take up the analysis in this term of office. Hopefully it will come from the state committee, but otherwise in a different way. That is where confidence must be gained, even in the years to come. Back to this law, Chairman. The Christian Union has criticised the so-called double lock, the two articles that see the repeal of this law and its design. It works and is legally correct, but it is very solid in proportionality. The Minister has given a clear answer, but the conclusion remains for my group. That does not mean, however, that we will support the motion just tabled by Mr Köhler under M. In that motion is asked to amend the law. That is a disguised right of amendment, which this Chamber does not have. This is about judging legality. It is legitimate and therefore we do not support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u370	You are actually saying: what happens with retroactivity is not careful and not proportionate. But the Christian Union then supports the law. How can you justify that, while the First Chamber is assessing the degree of care and proportionality? Then how can you sell it to agree to that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u371	In my view, I have just made this very clear: it is legitimate for us to review it and, in terms of proportionality, it is damaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u372	But not everything that is legitimate is proportionate, careful and therefore desirable? You might as well say that it is legitimate, but it is so disproportionate and careless that we... We can adopt a lot of proposals here that are legitimate but careless and disproportionate in their effect. How can you, as a member of the chambre de réflexion, still use French for a moment, look at yourself in the mirror by agreeing to this proposal and killing the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u373	This is clearly the PVV's analysis of how this should be handled. I have said that we are looking at legality. All the state's lawyers have said this can be done. I have explained how this should then be interpreted further. That consideration is different from that of the PVV. In the chambre de réflexion there are fortunately also sound colors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u374	It is extremely regrettable to see that the Christian Union puts the proportionality and care into the gross waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u375	It is also extremely regrettable that this Chamber is going to pretend to have a right of amendment, so we could go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u376	I would like to ask Mrs Bikker a further question about her response to the motion under M, of which I am the first signatory. Apart from the debate on legality, she says: we do not support the motion either because it calls for a novella, which is in fact amendment and that is not the job of this Chamber. Is that really the fundamental position of the Christian Union? In other cases, has she never supported a request for a novelle from this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u377	I am blessed with this memory and not with that of an elephant, so I cannot look back to the days of Mr. Schuurman and the wise things he did then. I only note that the core task of this Chamber has been shaped in the law of the state in such a way that the government offers us the right of novellle. We cannot ask that on a motion of our own. The design is very similar to a kind of converted amendment that has been put into a motion. In addition, you can say something about tricks, but more state law. I understand that from your point of view and in view of the message you have had in this whole debate, but I do not think it fits the character of this Chamber. That is why we are making a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u378	Can I refresh Mrs Bikker's memory with just one example? This is about her motion, actually a hidden amendment, in the treatment of the House of Whistleblowers Act, which was supported by us. In it, the Chamber actually asked for the law to be adapted, by the way, to the minister, because after adoption the law was with the minister. At that time she did not use the argument that it was not the task of the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u379	Yes, but that has been a very different debate with a very different element, also in proportion, in which we decided to accept or reject a proposal that already came through for the second time in a novelle as a Chamber. On that point, but I do not want to repeat the whole debate, it has turned out to be a small point, and that has also proved to be a small point in history after that, that there was a need for an addition in the law. This isn't about supplementing, this is really about cutting things off. So I really think it's a different order. Besides, you speak... well, I've said this three times, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u380	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u381	The then novelle asked by this Chamber about the House for Whistleblowers was also supported by the Christian Union. I do not necessarily want to draw your attention to an inconsistent argument, but I am surprised that this is now being raised as a basic argument against my motion, regardless of whether you agree with the motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u382	I take note of this surprise, but I really do note that there are calls for two sturdy articles of the Advisory referendum Act to be deleted, and I think that goes a lot further than Mr Köhler's examples from the past. I do not think that we are going in the right direction, given the position of our Chamber. But there are differences of opinion about that. Other motions are those on the trial. I have already exchanged with the Minister that my concern is on the precedent and also on the separation of powers. That is why I do not think it is a good idea to help the majority of these motions. I will therefore advise my group to vote against it. Mr. Chairman. A healthy democracy is strengthened by criticism and also by these debates. I believe in that. That is why it is good that we had this day, also to encourage new good ideas and to ensure that our democracy is accessible and accessible to everyone. In doing so, the Christian Union sees the strengthening of representative democracy. I thank the Minister for the ambition she expressed, but wait, to express it more liberally than on average for my group, also for her actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u383	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u384	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her first-term answers. What struck me was that the Minister was using an inimitable logic at an inimitable pace, with which she had certainly lost a lot of opponents in the past. I heard a gentleman tell on the radio the other day that he was convicted of something he hadn't done, despite the fact that he had expressed regret in court. He hadn't removed his fingerprints from his gun, and no matter how sorry he was, he was still punished. Things like that. The Minister likes tilted perspectives and I am a fan of them myself, so I know them from afar. The Minister mentioned the mirror image of the reverse at some point. Well, that has of course fallen in the chambre de réflexion more often. Something's starting to get a little dizzy. With an interrumpant it can start to dull very quickly. Such a moment of weakness would lead to a glorious escape for the Minister very quickly with a tightly-leading chairman. Let's talk about that inimitable logic. The Minister wants to save the electorate from disappointments by taking away the chance of those disappointments even before those disappointments could occur. It is the reverse Bambi-thinking from the hunter world: helping all healthy animals to the eternal hunting grounds to prevent the animals from ever becoming old, sick, weak or nauseous. The ultimate but unsolicited mercy. No electorate has asked the minister to protect him or her from false expectations, but the minister is taking preventive measures to protect the electorate. It's not the voter's fault. It's the instrument. And that instrument has to go to destruction. That is a high score, especially in a coalition in which there is a referendum party, which is in a very difficult situation. Mr Engels even mentioned a poison cup that he was supposed to drink today, and you wouldn't give anyone anything like that. The consequences may be even more far-reaching than of swallowing a whole melon, also true in the same coalition. Could it really be that in this challenge coalition impossible assignments can be crossed out against each other: I'm a whole melon, but you're a whole poison cup? Something like that seems more like it for teenagers who sniff cinnamon or take Coke with Mentos. It's a little bit: government is death. I think that the D66 Group, and in particular its new chairman, is much higher than that. I take the doubts expressed by Mr Engels very seriously. I also have a great deal of faith in the judiciary. It would really be an electoral blunder of unprecedented magnitude if D66 had her own crown jewel blown up under coalition control. From the VVD and the CDA I can understand it and from the Christian Union I try to understand it even more, but if D66 were to blow up the referendum, that would be absolutely kamikaze. The namesake of Mr Engels, Friedrich...................................................................................................................... Now we know from the party leader of D66 that his motto is 'democracy is not for scared people', so I can't imagine there would be a threat of that for the referendum. This gives me every confidence in the survival of the law, in the evaluation and in the referendum on the referendum. In order to increase opportunities, I would ask that both the law and all motions tabled be put to the vote by roll call next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u385	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. For the record, a roll-call vote was requested by Mr Nagel at the Seniors' College last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u386	Not for the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u387	You're right: not for the motions. You are now making that request for the motions, so we will have roll-call votes on it next week. Good. I now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by correcting something from the first term. I was talking about transitional rights, Article 6. It was in my head, and that's what the law says. But in my own text, which I myself had submitted, there was Article 4 and you referred to it. So I corrected you well, but it was wrong in my own text. On this point, it is corrected. Mr Köhler also owed me an answer. We were talking about the difference in turnout in the referendum on the Wiv, the second referendum ever held. We were both right. In the reclassification municipality, the turnout was indeed 30,53% of the population, i.e. more than enough...................................................................................................................................................................... So I guess the connection I made wasn't completely nonsensical. This has also been answered. Thank you for the Minister's reply. I am very curious, along with a lot of people in this Chamber, to see the agenda for democratic renewal. I hope it is wider than just looking at what forms of referenda we should or should not have. The Minister's response focused rather on parts of the elections and local democracy, but we would like to have a much broader agenda. In this context, I still miss the answer to the first-term question to reflect on the developments surrounding the Climate Act. Seven parties outside the democratic discourse have identified, or at least proposed, something that citizens will be confronted with. An unfamiliar person from this Chamber I heard on the radio last week saying that if we do that sort of thing, we should "not squeak about the gap between citizen and politics." This is what our chairman said on Radio 1 when discussing this subject. So perhaps it is very good to draw the President's words to us and to see if we are doing well in the direction of citizens. With regard to referendability, the Minister indicated that a referendum on this repeal law would only be extra disappointing. The answer and the discussion we had on this point showed that it was clear to me at least that the government would not intend to change its vision, even if a referendum were to be held. You can find anything you want. I think it's good to put it that way. That we say not only for all kinds of logical reasonings that we will not hold a referendum on this law, but also by saying in advance that we would not go ahead with it either, because we want it to be abolished. The Minister explained the words 'legally effective' that made me smile. She came to the conclusion that they were meant to be "legally correct." I think the Minister was the only one in this Chamber who gave this interpretation to 'legally effective'. With "legally correct" I immediately think that is completely fine. "Legally effective" I think is very thin. It might have been a creative solution. The question is whether it really is meant to be by the Council of State. We are no longer able to ask that again at this time. A final comment on ratification. I found the Minister's response to the separation of powers effective, so to speak, but that was reinforced by the interruption that Mrs Bikker made with the question of what that would mean for the precedent. That should make us think in this, to use it once more, chambre de réflexion. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u389	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I have made a number of points in my first term and in the debate with the Minister, which I would like to pass on very briefly. Firstly, the room for improvement that you could apply to make the consultative referendum a better instrument. I think we really disagree whether or not we can. The examples mentioned by the Minister why this could not be done are, in fact, fully applicable to local referendums, and we do not say: do not make them possible in advance. You could perhaps come to displeasure with citizens about that. As a consequence, the argument underlying the cabinet position for the abolition of the referendum is the dreaded alienation of the citizen. The cabinet leans quite strongly on that argument. The reverse reasoning that we are opposing is equally clear: it is not possible to allow this repeal law itself to be the subject of a referendum. We could only really know for sure when we would actually present that to society and try to seduce the electorate to stand up for it massively and make a ruling on it. The Minister uses the following logic not to do this: we have now made a law; if there is a referendum and there is a 'no' vote, we have actually done it for nothing, because we are already in favour of abolition. That logic applies to any legislation and we should never have started the referendum. That was not the purpose with which the legislator ever came up with the consultative referendum. It will be a circular reasoning that does not lead to a solution. I note at the moment that we differ on this point. Like Mr Schalk, I also noticed the term 'legally effective'. In times of World Cup football we used to talk about "effective football." That was usually about catenaccio, not to be seen, although you could become world champions with it a few times, like the Italians, but now they're just like us at home. How long does "effective" stay effective if you take the sport? Mr. Chairman. My main point was that the abolition of this referendum option does not go hand in hand with a broader vision of how we could strengthen democracy and how we could increase the direct influence of the electorate. I'm a little happy about two things. The first is that the Minister said that the Remkes Committee's report is in any case on the right track and is on top of that. At least that's some kind of reassurance. Well, let's hope that there won't be too many reports after that that will be put back on. The second is that the Minister states that he does have an agenda for democratic improvements. The examples she mentions are very institutional in nature, such as strengthening the support of municipal councils and better procedures around elections. There's nothing wrong with it, but it doesn't give a lot of trips towards direct democracy. To help the cabinet with that, we have a motion. The President shall: Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Köhler, Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Sini proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in repealing the Advisory referendum Act, the Government does not propose alternative forms of direct democracy or develop new initiatives to this end;]] [[Whereas the alienation of the electorate from the political process is an undesirable development;]] [[Whereas a strong democracy grows with social developments and thus maintains and strengthens its foundations;]] [[Whereas there is a great need among the Dutch population for more direct involvement in politics, more control outside the elections and more accountability by politicians;]] [[calls on the Government to present an initiative for a vision of new forms of direct democracy to complement and strengthen the current Dutch parliamentary representative system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That concludes my second term immediately. We have weighed the Minister's answers and, unfortunately, we will not be able to support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u392	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u393	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her clear answers, at least in my perception, they were clear on the questions of me and my fellow Members. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the great attention that has been paid to my party and my group today. This applies in particular to my predecessor as group chairman, Mr Thom de Graaf. He got even more attention than I did. Of course, he was character-forming after all. I would also like to thank the honourable Members for the very interesting remarks that have been made in my direction. So I will carry this day with me for a very long time. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I have tried to show, as clearly and as sincerely as possible, that there is discussion and that there are real concerns about some aspects of this law. I named them, too. I have also indicated that there are absolutely great ambitions within my group not to leave it alone when it comes to abolishing consultation... No, it's the consultative referendum. I'm very consistent in my mistakes. Instead, there must be room for great success when it comes to strengthening and improving our democracy. I have put a number of points to that effect. I am going to mention it very briefly, because I have been discussing it with the Minister in the first place. I can state that, in response to our question, in order to explain the reasons for the legislative proposal in relation to the element of alienation, the Minister has made a link with our analysis, which is mainly about political confidence and social confidence. My group feels that this justification is sufficient at present. A second element that we were very keen on, so to speak, was non-referendibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u394	I have to say that, with regard to the alienation mentioned by Mr Engels, the Minister has convinced the D66 Group or in a rather short time, but I wonder if he thinks that the electorate will be convinced in such a short time if a party promises to hold the referendum whole and does the opposite after the elections. It's really hard to explain, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u395	I have heard many times today that something has been said about how my group is looking at the referendum. That is what I am told in one, let me say, what one-dimensional rhetoric, or black and white: we are killing the referendum today as D66. Of course, that is absolutely not what I have argued here today. We have a bill before us about the consultative referendum. I have made it very clear that my group sees on a number of points what the problems are in relation to this consultative referendum. And that is what we are assessing at the moment, also on the basis of proposals from the government. Of course, I will not deny that our electoral programme states that we are embracing the consultative referendum, simply because there is no other person in sight and that we need to learn from it. You could also say that, in the context of the discussion of this bill for my group, that learning effect is also present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u396	I should like to stress for a moment that Mr Engels calls it 'one dimensional and black and white'. It's not that. What really matters is that in your first term you were critical of the government and that a lot of colleagues here said: well, D66 does not just accept it. If you tell the Minister that she convinced you, that's not convincing. I'm asking you about that. The Minister has not promised you anything at all, he has not met you in any way, he has slammed the door further than he already has, and you say: yes, well, we are pleased that the Minister has met us in a satisfactory way. That's one dimensional. This is a planned second deadline which does not take into account what was said in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u397	I can't follow this anymore. Mr Koffeman has already come to a conclusion on what my entire second term is going to be, while I still have two of my three points to deal with. I only gave an opinion on how the Minister replied to our question in order to clarify the motivation of the bill. I have said that this clarification is sufficient for my group. You are too early to conclude that we ourselves would do so as one-dimensionally. Mr President, I come to my second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u398	Mr Van Hattem first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u399	I still find it rather unclear why the Minister would have convinced the D66 group. Is this really an intrinsic belief or is this more of a coalition conviction? I can't figure that out yet. Could you clarify and explain clearly on which grounds, on which grounds, on which grounds, with your group as a whole, you have come to an intrinsic belief?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u400	This, with your permission, is, of course, a question of party politics. In the first period, I went into detail on that element of the justification of that bill, including the element of alienation. Because you don't have forever, I ran a compact analysis and asked if the Minister could connect our analysis with the government's own logic. It is up to my group to decide whether we think that is sufficiently convincing or not. I would like to say quite frankly, because that is also a little bit the course of the debate, and I also have no illusion that the representative of the Party for Freedom will at any time be able to understand, let alone accept, that my group will reach a certain judgment at some point, simply because it does not fit in with its own vision. So we're just never gonna agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u401	This is gonna break my nugget anyway. Your vision is originally the vision as I laid down in the first term. It was expressed in the past by Mr De Graaf and by many of your predecessors in D66, and that was a principled pro-referendum, in which this consultative referendum was fully defended. It's even as an initiative submitted by your own party. As PVV, we even share that view. We're in favour of referendums. We are in favour of the consultative referendum. You say we'll never get together. No, you're turned. You are in this case "Draai 66." You are now saying that you are abandoning the consultative referendum. That's what's underneath. I firmly believe that I am asking you to motivate it if that is not the case. This is purely a piece of coalition coercion, to participate in the government, without you being able to explain what you have now brought to the other intrinsic belief that you need to take a different course, with the whole proposal disappearing into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u402	I have two brief comments to make on this. Firstly, I believe that everyone who has heard the first deadline has heard that I have discussed our view of the referendum in great detail. There is no one referendum. There are different modalities, which you can also judge differently. This has also played a role in the way in which my group had the debate here a few years ago on the initiative proposal, in which one of my party members was an initiator. Another bill also played a role. It will certainly not be the case, at least not in my memory, that my group opted in principle for the consultative referendum as the ideal figure. At that time, the binding corrective referendum was not yet in sight. That is what the initiators themselves had indicated. That is why we recognised at that time that it was perfectly understandable to accept the consultative referendum. That was then. We have also said in the election programmes that we want to learn from it. Today we are faced with the question of how we assess the consultative referendum. I have addressed the problem of the consultative referendum in great detail, namely that an advisory referendum should be binding. That's how you judge it. That's how you see it. But that's not a constitutional bond. It is a political self-binding and therefore a de facto binding. It is at odds with the Constitution. That is our fundamental problem. There is also the problem that we think the result of a referendum should be clear to the electorate. If there is a majority that says yes or a majority that says no, there will be a legal effect. That is our view of the referendum. You can always try to tell me that we must therefore embrace the consultative referendum in the same way, but I would remind you once again that this is not possible on these grounds. We consider this to be very different. That is also the starting point that we are using today to see what we think of this bill in the end. So that is a little more complicated than you are now suggesting for a very short time. In this way, there has been no discussion within my group, so I have not discussed it with the government, and that way I will not be able to express the final opinion of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u403	Mr. Van Hattem, finally. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u404	Mr Engels really needs a lot of words to try to straighten out what's crooked, but it's still crooked. You are now making a whole story of it to justify that D66 would suddenly no longer be in favour of the consultative referendum. That is suddenly a bad instrument, purely because coalition agreements are no longer convenient for you. If your group still has to give its opinion, let it be a free matter in your group, as was already the case in the first period. Vote without the commitment to the coalition agreement. If you go along with that, it seems to me to be a very sensible effort, but that is of course up to your own group. It remains remarkable that you, without a very firm commitment or other explanation from the Minister, who really is different from what was previously exchanged...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u405	I asked you to be brief. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u406	Let me be brief: this is just a very sturdy twist of D66. It makes the referendum 'à la poubelle' disappear, to say it again in French, in other words in the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u407	In the first term, I was happy when I listened to Mr Engels. He takes his part as a senator. He asked the question about the government's motives for withdrawal. My question is this. You say you've listened carefully. It's a sustained motivation. Can you name me points that you find worn, which might convince you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u408	I have already argued that in the first term. When it comes to the justification and the justification why the consultative referendum is a less good instrument than the binding corrective referendum, my group first finds that there is legal uncertainty for the voters, because they cannot know in advance what will happen to the result. That was an element. The other element is that there are many bottlenecks in the procedure. Moreover, where the government was strictly confined to the element of alienation, what we could understand is another element: to what extent does the figure of the referendum play a role, in whatever mode, but now it is about this modality which is a role in terms of political confidence? Do I understand the public's confidence in the government and in politicians, but also in the social trust between citizens? I think we can see that the referendum has also worked polarisingly in some respects. So I asked the Minister to see if she could link the government's alienation element and argument with the element of confidence that we consider important. My conclusion is, and I think I have the right to find it, that the government has succeeded sufficiently. That is why I would like to make it very clear that we now consider the justification to be sufficient. I do not rule out, and I want to be clear about that, that other groups may not yet find that justification acceptable. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u409	Can you come to that conclusion with the government, disappointment among voters after such a short period of time in which the consultative referendum was available? Can you endorse that conclusion after only one referendum in all this time? Shouldn't there have been time to learn from the experience of the consultative referendum? Voters must also get used to such a democratic instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u410	Sure. I understand the question, but we have had sufficient insight into the workings of this figure to have strong hesitations. That's one. And two is that it strengthens our assessment of the great attractiveness of a referendum in a less binding corrective form, as it addresses some of the problems that we now find attached to the figure of the consultative referendum. I can also see that we differ on that, but if you ask me if I am sufficiently convinced, then the answer is yes. I have now dealt with one point, Mr President. There's gonna be two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u411	You have two minutes and 55 seconds left. What do you want? That's gonna work, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u412	Okay. Non-referendibility. I have asked the Minister to clarify the logic of the government's choice of non-referendibility. The Minister gave the answer that, paraphrased, means that if we had not done so, we, in the government's view, might actually contribute more to alienation and loss of trust. We therefore consider that the logic of this choice is stronger than any other logic that I have mentioned, so that we can keep that referendum. That answer is linked to the assessment of the timing of the legislative proposal. The Minister says that the Cabinet attaches great importance to clarifying the intended abolition of the consultative referendum to voters in the shortest possible time. Of this, I can say that my group, too, continues to find this a difficult point, but that we can understand that reasoning and also, in order to use a word from another spokesperson, which in itself can now be justified. That was the second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u413	In the first term, Mr Engels asked the Minister to convince his group, which was not yet convinced of the government's line, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u414	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u415	Am I wrong about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u416	No, just for the record. I have said that my group is very unhappy with the legislative proposal on a number of points. I then asked to come up with a convincing story to support one's own chosen logic. That's just two other things. But go on quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u417	That's up to me. Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u418	In the first term, you have summarized the fact that your group was not yet sufficiently convinced on this point. Now it is up to you to be convinced. What new argument, which has not yet been put forward in the written exchange of views, has been decisive for your group in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u419	The decisive factor for my group is that we can understand that the government has been afraid of the danger that, if you had linked the referendability to the legislative proposal, the alienation effect and the confidence effect might have been stimulated. We believe that this is a less attractive development. We therefore want to support the government in that regard, in that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u420	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u421	I am sorry that the D66 Group apparently missed the government's argument in the exchange of letters, because this very same government argument was already known before we started this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u422	This applies to many aspects that are already known in the discussion. But at some point the arguments need to be weighed up, we need to develop our own vision, we have done so, and we need to indicate where we still have reservations about a number of elements and bottlenecks that are linked to the legislative proposal. Then it is a question of: how do we assess the reaction of the government to what we are putting forward? And that's what we do. I have one more point on the agenda for democracy, which relates to the element of the state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u423	I have the feeling that Mr Van Hattem would like to ask a question about the previous point. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u424	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u425	I'm giving you the opportunity for one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u426	That could be enough. In the first period, we have already asked that question. You say that's what we weigh. But what weighting did you make now? On what grounds have you made that weighing so that you can reach that judgment? It remains completely unclear what the ground is for us to find sufficient that the legislative proposal is not referendable. That remains completely unclear. Can you explain again what grounds D66 has taken into account in this judgment, except for the vague argument of alienation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u427	When it comes to the whole spectrum of arguments and motives that play a role in assessing non-referendibility, I started by asking whether that was a legitimate legislative step or not. There are many elements to that. In the first period, we indicated that my group would eventually agree with the judgment of the Council of State, in any event, as well as with those of the state scholars, that there was no constitutional unlawfulness here. That's one. That is, of course, an important fact, especially in this Chamber. Another element is that state lawyers, as well as others, have raised the question of whether you should want to. I have said that this is an understandable and not unjustified question. That question was also raised in my group. The next item is an exchange of views with the government on the question: what exactly did you mean by that? Do you think that's convincing enough? We still have a few hesitations. We then consider the Government's response. At the time when the Minister is going to make the link, where in general the consultative referendum already has a problem of possible alienation and instead of bridging the loss of confidence strengthening that confidence, I can imagine something in the reasoning that if you linked referendability to that bill, that effect might be greater than if you did not. I fully understand that this argument will be weighed differently if there is no desire to criticize or abolish the consultative referendum, but my group weighs it in its own way and thinks that this is an acceptable explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u428	Proceed with your second term, Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u429	Mr. Chairman. The final point is the ambitions we have in the democratic agenda in general and in particular the element of the binding corrective referendum. This is motivated by the feeling that the cabinet shows very little ambition on that point. We didn't notice much more than we're not gonna do something. I have also said that this is bothering my group. That is why I have said: we think that is actually too passive. That is why I said to the Minister: in view of the establishment of the State Commission, which indeed took place before this cabinet, it would be nice if the cabinet were to become more active in this and develop more ambition. I understand that the Minister must operate within narrow margins. She's not just about it either. There's also a cabinet. In that sense, I found it positive that the Minister said: I will regard the report of the State Commission as leading the drafting of a democratic agenda and warmly received her precise words I do not know anymore, and I will make every effort to do so. That is in itself pleasurable because I did not ask for a very specific indication of what proposals the State Committee would like or would not want to make, but I indicated that we would like to have a perspective in terms of: is this the whole cabinet period when it comes to ambitions for democratic renewal or can we expect some more from the cabinet? So we also want to expect something from the cabinet. On this point, the Minister has made the commitments to my group that she is going to work on an agenda for democratic renewal. We are, of course, looking forward to that, because that is a perspective that we want to embrace. Then she said: I will examine the final report of the State Committee with full commitment and give a serious response to it. My interpretation is that a serious reaction can never be: we are not going to do anything about it and he is going to get into that pile where all the other reports are. I wouldn't think that was a serious reaction. So I refer to the Minister's words as 'we're not going to write that down completely', as happened with the previous government committee more or less because the cabinet at the time didn't recognize itself in anything either. Well, then, of course, we're not getting anywhere. Then there is the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u430	Do you think about your time? You're already over your time. And Mr. Lintmeijer wanted to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u431	Just a very short one. I listened with interest to this speech. The short question is: does that mean that you can support the motion we tabled for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u432	That was my final element: before I make a judgment on motions, I would first like to know what the Minister of Motions thinks. As far as I have just seen the motion, I have the impression that it goes a little further than what I would like to exchange very briefly with the Minister. And I have to do that briefly, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u433	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u434	I have one more question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u435	You've been over it for 1 minute and 43 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u436	Oh, oh, Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'll make it quick. I would like to ask the Minister the following, and that would help me very much to come up with a good advice for my group. On behalf of my group, I would like to say that we want to speed up the story. We do not want it to take a very long time for a cabinet response to come when the report from the state committee comes. So I would ask the Minister to prepare already within the Ministry, to do pre-work which can contribute to a clear response to the state committee's report. This could include the fact that the Ministry is already trying to carry out its own analysis of the state of the parliamentary system and is using it as a test for what the State Commission is presenting. The second thing I want to ask is this. A cabinet response usually has a classic form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u437	But for a really short time now, Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u438	I would like to ask the Minister whether, in preparing the cabinet response, she would like to include a public element with a more innovative character to involve society in one or another and not follow the classic internal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u439	Short. You are very keen on the state committee and its advice. Would you also like to see an investigation into the functioning of the Advisory referendum Act so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u440	No, I didn't say that, and I'm not implying that either. I do not want to fill it out for the Minister either, because that would allow me to do the same with regard to the proposals of the State Committee. I have some ideas about that, but these are personal opinions. I do not have the need to anticipate this now in extenso and I do not think that is useful either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u441	Mr. Van Hattem, one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u442	I hear Mr Engels of D66 now making a plea to involve society. But you are abolishing the ultimate opportunity to involve society in the government and torpedoing it precisely by having the consultative referendum withdrawn. And now you are making a plea to involve society and society. How unbelievable is this plea!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u443	In my opinion, this plea is extremely credible. It has already been decided in your question, because you say that the ultimate means we have in democracy will be abolished. You see the consultative referendum as the ultimate and best form of a referendum. But I indicated at the beginning of the afternoon and again now that it was not for my group, nor was it in the past. Our ultimate form of referendum is a binding corrective referendum. This means that I do not see what would be unbelievable if I asked the Minister to develop a democratic agenda and to deal seriously with the report of the State Committee. I have indicated that I would be very pleased if the figure of the binding corrective referendum were involved. And I don't think it's on the way of a First Parliamentary Group to prescribe in extenso how that's all going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u444	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u445	I said, Mr. Van Hattem, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u446	Yeah, but I have a short reaction, because there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u447	You've had plenty of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u448	There's a word in my mouth that I didn't use. I have never said that the consultative referendum is the ultimate form. We have always said that the binding referendum is indeed a better form. But the only form of referendum we have now is to abolish D66. And that is a bad thing and that is why Mr Engels' plea is so unbelievable and will only cause more disappointment and alienation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u449	Mr. Van Hattem, this is it. Mrs. Lokin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u450	Madam President, I would like to ask you to continue the debate on the draft bill before us and not on what the Committee on Parliament's Rules of Procedure might decide. Let us wait and see what concrete proposals it will come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u451	That is a general remark and more directed towards the Minister, I understand. I ask the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations if she has the opportunity to reply immediately. She'd like a ten-minute suspension. All right, then the sitting is suspended until 9.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u452	I will reopen the debate on the legislative proposal Revocation of the Advisory referendum Act. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for giving me the opportunity to check whether I had all the motions, because a few new ones have been tabled and I wanted to make sure that I had the administration in order. I would like to answer the questions first. I do so in order of the contributions by the spokesmen. After that, I'm gonna come up with all the motions. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem actually blames me for consistency, because he says: you always say the same thing. That is true, because the cabinet followed the reasoning I followed in the Lower House, of course, also in the Upper Chamber. I've been digging it up here, too. So I understand that Mr Van Hattem does not agree. That is the consistency of his side. I also think that we are not going to find each other on this point. However, I would like to say to him that political renewal in my view, even when it comes to our parliamentary democracy, must also mean that if you find that an instrument is not working properly enough, you must be prepared to add a consequence to it and not to muddle through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u454	All those Members who wish to interrupt in this second term from the Minister's side, I would like to ask for one interruption, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u455	I'm going to keep it short. Because also a detailed circular reasoning remains a circular reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u456	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem also had a question, which he felt had not been answered sufficiently clearly in the first period. I would like to get back to that, because I think it is an important question. It concerns the issue that is now under trial. Mr Van Hattem's question was what situation will arise if the defendant is wronged by the court if the law is ratified; is there not a state-law vacuum? That was the first-term question he repeated. The court has not yet ruled on the admissibility of the plaintiff. No verdict has yet been passed. That is why, in view of the principle of the separation of powers, it is not appropriate to deal with any consequences of the ruling, which we do not yet know. It does not lead to a state-law vacuum. The judge and the legislator each have their role and their responsibility; that is what I have just said. Moreover, as long as no judgment has been delivered and therefore the ruling is unknown, what considerations have led to the ruling and what the situation will be after the ruling, we do not know. I cannot look into a glass ball; neither can Mr Van Hattem. What we do know is that tomorrow we will know the provisional claim, because that ruling will be made on 4 July. I'll inform your room about that. That's the maximum I can do. I shall, of course, be speaking about the motion, which will be on ratification. But that runs by motion; I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u457	Mr. Van Hattem, one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u458	Perhaps the following question, apart from this particular case: if a case is declared admissible by a civil court and finally a legislative proposal is rejected that looks at the proceedings of this Chamber, what legal consequences does the Minister foresee for the laws that are passed in the meantime? Should these laws be re-voted and, from a constitutional point of view, should they be ratified and dealt with again? How does the Minister see that in a constitutional context?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u459	As I have just said, Mr Van Hattem fears a state-law vacuum and I say that there is no question of that at all. The legislator simply continues with the legislative work. The judge's got another job to do. And if there's a verdict, after the admissibility has been determined, we'll see. It suits us as legislators to wait for that. It is also appropriate for us as legislators to continue our own work simply and not to be determined by ongoing judicial proceedings. Mr. Chairman. I will continue to answer a number of questions. Mr Nagel did not actually have any questions, but he did have a motion, which I will, of course, come up with later. He did have a comment. He said, next year, this Chamber will have a new composition. That's true. We do not know at all what this Chamber is going to look like, but we do know that Mr Nagel is actually a permanent part, so we hope to see him again here, of course. The VVD made a few comments about the state committee, which I recognize very well. It is indeed nice that we have already been able to take note of her ideas. The VVD spoke of "ripe and green." I think that's also the compliment I gave for the approach of the state committee. It does this in such a way that at the end we will be able to assess ourselves in a transparent way in order to draw up the final opinions. But we don't have it yet. So that's what we have to wait for. Mr Sini of the Labour Party had a number of comments and judgments. I was pleased that in the second term, too, he called attention to what he calls the 'practically educated'. I thought Mrs Bikker used that term, too. I think that is a very important point, because it indicates that it is extremely important to involve everyone in the administration of the country, in determining what is happening. I think so, too. This is true at national, local, provincial and European level for the European elections. I think it is very important that people feel involved, go to the ballot box, but can also exercise their influence in other ways. There are, of course, many opportunities for this at local level. I know a lot of municipalities that have already worked very seriously on this. I also know many coalition agreements from the newly formed colleges in which they have also found a place for this. In my view, this is a trend that we must support as much as possible. I will do the same, and I will be strengthened by the coalition agreement, which also says something about that. I shall now come to Mr Sini's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u460	A quick question. It's a good thing you mention the practically trained. They need extra care from the government. But how do you see the experience at local level with referenda in relation to the national consultative referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u461	I also mentioned in my term that a referendum could be held at local level. The big difference between local referendums and the consultative referendum, which we are talking about today, is that these local referendums are not about legislation; they are about local issues. Of course, they can be very different in the elaboration, from something very concrete and very practical to something that is broader in nature, but they are not about laws. But I do agree with Mr Sini that local experiences with referenda can be relevant. I can also imagine that the State Commission is going to include this in its deliberations. It's a local choice, you don't have to; it's okay, but we can definitely learn from it. Then Mr Köhler. He came back to the question of exclusion from referendability. At one point, I'd really like to supplement it. The initiative law on the consultative referendum already provides that a later law could actually overrule referendability. So I think it is inherently logical that the cabinet chooses this law precisely because it concerns the law on the consultative referendum. I understand that some will say "that's magical with words," but nothing is less true. Precisely the Law on the Consultative referendum, which was already mentioned in the explanatory memorandum at the time "it may be that a later law overrulet this law," lends itself to that clarity at the front. It's up to the legislator. The legislator has the last word in this, because we do not have an instrument in the Netherlands that is above the legislator. We apply it very purely, I think, in this reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u462	I have the impression that the Minister is once again emphasising the legality of Articles 5 and 6 of the bill. But I don't dispute it. I agree. It is legitimate, at least looking at all the opinions, that is what it looks like. With the knowledge of today, I'd like to say that. But the point was that at that time the initiators themselves had already foreseen that the law might be abolished, and that therefore not only the initiators, but also the legislator, had included a provision that would allow a referendum to be held on that abolition. That was clearly the point: if the legislator thinks otherwise, then at least a referendum must be possible. That is what you are now going through, briefly through the corner, with a reverse reasoning. Now you say: yes, but then it makes sense to make that impossible in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u463	I find that logical if the purpose of the cabinet, which the law submits, is to repeal the law. I agree with Mr Köhler that it would have been our objective if we had been able to submit by means of an advisory referendum whether the consultative referendum should be withdrawn. But the thesis is: we do not think that the instrument is sufficient; we would like to withdraw it, and then we do not want to present it in the same way, by means of an instrument that we say does not actually work well. Mr Köhler can, of course, make a different choice. I understand that very well. But it is not the reasoning that has been followed. It is a reasoning that is foreseen in the examination of the own-initiative proposal at the time. I would also like to congratulate Mr Köhler on the VAR. I thought that was a good find. Maybe the Remkes Committee will come up with that videoref for parliamentary democracy. We'll have to wait and see. Mr. Chairman. The Independent Senate Group seemed to me to go a long way along in the reasoning. She says: we actually agree with the reasoning, but then our choice would be to adjust it. I respect it. I think I have just dealt with the issue of state law in response to Mr Van Hattem's question. I'll be on that motion later. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union says: we must always think about improvement. I hear that loud and clear. I totally agree with her. It also called for attention to be paid to the practically skilled. She also asked me to say a little more about how I want to deal with the state committee. If Mrs Bikker agrees, I am going to include that question in Mr Engels' question, because he has also asked a question about it. So I'll get back to you on that. She has asked for a promise, and she will soon receive it. Let me also say that I liked her lock very much: ambition is good; deeds are better. It sounds a bit Rotterdamish for an Amsterdammer, but I agree with her. I did not think I had heard a question from Mr Koffeman. Of the SGP, yes, because Mr Schalk of the SGP pointed out to me that I did not return to the Climate Law in the first term. That's right. He would have asked for that. I actually think that every initiative law is subject to the following conditions. It arises; a initiator makes a bill. That sometimes rests on a majority and sometimes it doesn't. But that proposal is still going through the whole parliamentary process. That is no different from when the government comes forward with proposals. The government often knows that a proposal is based on a majority in the Second and First Chambers. However, the whole legislative process is going through itself. However, we want to have a social debate on proposals that we are making. I see this in the climate law no different from other own-initiative proposals. Then the question of GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u464	I understand the Minister's reasoning, but here it is discussed and presented in advance by such a broad spectrum of parties that one can almost wonder whether the political debate is really going to yield a great deal. So it is something different than if, so to speak, someone comes up with an initiative law or a minister comes up with a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u465	That is also the concern I have heard the President express, of course, not in this Chamber but outside. I understand. You can also see it as some kind of reverse hand put out. Sometimes you also try to do important socially relevant topics with the broadest possible majority. In this case, we knew that there were two opposition parties who wanted to do something like this. So instead of coming up with a proposal from the government, it has been thought: we must try to connect with the initiators, who were the first to come up with that plan. So I understand the criticisms, but I think that the parliamentary process is by definition a serious one, even if there is a broad majority on the front. I have arrived at Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks. At one point, I really don't agree with him. He says: that logic of not holding a referendum is always valid. Well, then we shouldn't have a consultative referendum. But the point here is, it's not "a" law. There are a lot of laws coming through this Chamber. But this is the Advisory referendum Act itself. That's what makes the difference. That means that the logic that I have just tried to put into words again is right here. It is precisely for the withdrawal of the consultative referendum itself. The legislator has the power to do so. I am convinced that it would not be understood if an advisory referendum were to be held on this subject. Then I'd much rather be clear in advance. Mr Lintmeijer also made a few comments on the report of the State Committee. Yes, he understood me very well. I shall come back to that later when I respond to Mr Engels. He has also tabled a motion, and I will return to it later. I come to Mr Engels. I thank him for what he says about the explanation of the cabinet regarding alienation, which really has to do with the question of how we can strengthen social confidence in politics. My firm conviction is that you do not do that by further polarizing. That is the reasoning and motivation I give in this legislative proposal and ultimately in the proposal to exclude referendability. Mr Engels noted that he felt that this cabinet had not yet shown sufficient ambition in terms of democratic renewal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u466	The minister uses a pretty big word: "polarize" around the bill. But isn't it polarizing if you withdraw the law so sturdy without allowing any kind of referendum? Is the withdrawal not already polarizing, so that you withdraw it instead of letting the citizens hold an instrument that will allow them to express their possible displeasure or pleasure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u467	No, I don't. I have argued in the first term why the legislative proposal has been discussed in detail in open terms, after today's debate in both chambers. That's a way you're having a social conversation. Of course there are differences of opinion. And that's a good thing. There are also passionate supporters of the consultative referendum. We've heard it, also in the last few days. That is good, and that is also part of the social debate. But it is ultimately up to the legislator, heard all the arguments and also heard this support. So I think it is important for Mr Engels to say that he wants to work on trust and restore confidence and that he can follow the government's reasoning on that point, namely that it has exactly the opposite effect. Mr Engels calls on me to ensure more ambition from the cabinet on this point. I think those two things are getting together really well. I told you, I'm working on part of that agenda. This is mainly about local democracy and what we can do there, which we can improve there. But this is precisely about parliamentary democracy. It is about our national instruments in this respect. As far as that is concerned, I would almost like to say that this Chamber, by means of a motion tabled by the State Committee, has brought about a coincidence. The report of that state committee will enable me to show the ambition that Mr Engels is demanding. So I look forward to that. I'm really passionate about that, and I really want to do that. I think it is the right order to wait for the State Commission, but I will tell Mr Engels and Mrs Bikker that I will do so quickly. I have already outlined in the first term that I would like to start what needs to be set in motion in the department, so that we can quickly deliver the response. Mr Engels spoke of 'innovative' and 'don't do it too classical and too poachy and too slow'. That's all very appealing to me, so that's what he should expect from me. And so did Mrs Bikker, because I think she had asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u468	Thank you for that. I mentioned one more element in the somewhat quick conclusion I had to make. I asked whether, in drawing up the cabinet response, an external, public element could somehow be built into the innovative ambition. In this way, the cabinet can show that it is not merely proposing not to do anything. By actively involving society in this discussion in one way or another, the cabinet shows that it wants to make serious work of it. I think that is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u469	Yeah, I can imagine. We can see that the Remkes Committee is actually doing the same thing. At least that's a nice way to do it. But I have heard Mr Engels' appeal very well. When I say that I want to do it quickly and I would like to do it in a new way, I see a lot of possibilities for expressing Mr Engels' suggestion. I actually see that as a support for the way in which I would like to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u470	Thank you for the Minister's commitment. I did, however, emphasise that I consider the gap to the practically skilled electorate to be particularly important in the Minister's ambitions. I hope she will include that in this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u471	That's right. Mrs Bikker specifically asked. She had not only asked in general terms about dealing with the state committee, but she also mentioned very widely those groups of voters who seem to be at a more distance. I think that is an important point of attention, so I am happy to tell her that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u472	I have a brief comment, or actually a question to the Minister. Today it has been a lot about the binding corrective referendum. You have always stated in your speeches that there is no basis for this at the moment. I understand that you are going to take very seriously what the State Commission is going to say. It also mentioned the binding referendum. I can assume that we can freely choose whether or not that topic is on the agenda, and that your commitment does not imply that we are going to take that up at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u473	At least what I'm going to pick up is just the advice of the state committee. This consists of a wide range of proposals. At least, the intermediate position we know now indicates that. Just two things. The binding corrective referendum, which I said earlier, was no longer acceptable, was, of course, the initiative proposal that was already under discussion. There is therefore no single binding corrective referendum. There was a proposal with a certain content. The broad support for this has fallen. We have seen that in the House of Representatives. In the interim, the Remkes Committee has already said something about such an instrument, but it is still going to debate it, including in society. So we will see what is in the final report, but you can expect me to give you a cabinet response on the whole of the opinion of the state committee. I'm not gonna preach on that right now. Mr President, then there are the motions. I think the first motion was the motion with letter K. It was to replace the motion with letter J of the member Nagel. This motion I must advise against. I am going to say something about ratification, a little more detailed than I might have done in the first term. The ratification is a matter for the King and the Ministers in the Netherlands. After ratification by the King, the law for countersign is offered to the prime minister. Then the ratification becomes a fact. The Constitution contains this division of powers, namely Articles 81 to 87. It is therefore the government that is responsible for completing the legislative process. It is the States-General who deal with the parliamentary debate and the votes. Thus, the various responsibilities and powers lie. They are really enshrined in the constitutional framework. That division of roles is of course well known in this Chamber, but I think it is really important to say this again. 'Cause that means I'm really deceiving what's in the motion. The motion with letter L is a motion by Mr Sini. If I read this motion correctly, Mr Sini and the other signatories are asking for an evaluation of the Wrr. I didn't say anything about it in the first place. We have chosen to abolish the consultative referendum and not to develop the consultative referendum. It is therefore not very logical to evaluate its effectiveness and its effects after consideration of this repeal law. In other words, I do not think that a legislative review after a vote on the repeal law makes any sense. Since we know in the meantime that the State Committee is making a comment on this, I would imagine that I would bring this to the attention of the State Committee once again in connection with the debate here today. I could say that, but I would advise against the motion as such. The motion with letter M is a motion by Mr Köhler of the SP, with a number of other names underneath. There are a few things in this motion that I really don't agree with. I do not agree with the term "legal tricks." I do not agree with the prejudice that this would have done to the due diligence in the legislative process. Having said that, the operative part of the document asks the government to amend the proposal in such a way as to make the law referenceable. Of course, that ignores the whole argument I have made about referendability. That is part of the proposal. Therefore, I advise against the motion. Then I'm at the last motion, the motion with letter N. That is a motion by Mr Lintmeijer. I have, of course, already said something about the reaction to the state committee. I find the motion in itself very sympathetic. There's stuff in there that I just said. I said there'd be a cabinet response when the state committee arrived. That cabinet response will be a vision, as Mr Engels has asked. The motion limits it somewhat, because it deals, as the operative part states, with new forms of direct democracy. I expect the State Committee to make a broader range of proposals. However, in the light of what I expect from the State Committee and what I have just promised to Mr Engels, I can imagine that the Chamber itself will judge what is wise about this motion. Mr. Chairman. I have therefore dealt with the questions and motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u474	The Minister has said that she will, as it were, pass the motion that we have tabled to the State Committee. Minister, can you tell us something about that, in the sense that the state committee really will come back to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u475	May I clarify this? I said I'm deceiving the motion. The motion calls for some reflection on the Advisory referendum Act. But it will soon be withdrawn; at least I am waiting, of course, for the vote to be taken in your Chamber. I understand that Mr Sini says that he needs a broader reflection on that instrument and what we can perhaps learn from it, just as I said that we can learn something from local referenda. I am prepared to bring that point to the attention of the State Commission, to the extent necessary and to the extent that it has not yet done so. That is the commitment I would like to make to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u476	I said one interruption. I'm allowing this interruption, but it is. Ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u477	Short, Mr. Chairman. With that promise, we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u478	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u479	At the request of Mr Sini, I propose that his motion be retained (34854, letter L). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u480	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-8.u481	I'm here to deal with the bill. A roll-call vote has already been requested on the legislative proposal. In addition, a roll-call vote was requested on all motions this evening. I propose a roll-call vote next Tuesday on the bill and the motions.
