ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on new actions and strikes within Air France-KLM. I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State and give Mr Graus the floor on behalf of the PVV Group as the first speaker. Is it true that your birthday was yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u2	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u3	It was the Minister's birthday! Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u4	Then I'm going to congratulate her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u5	Well, that all goes away from your speaking time. All right, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I wish the Minister a blessed New Year of Life, with all happiness and lots of love, because there is not enough love in this world. Madam President, this is yet another debate I have requested on behalf of KLM or Schiphol. The impression should not be missed that I have quite a thing with KLM. I personally think it is the most beautiful company that exists in the Netherlands. Not only because the planes are beautiful blue swans, but also because the company itself is a large private employer. It's our pride. The Royal Air Company is currently in danger. Things have to be done very quickly. We've just had a big aviation debate. I'm not gonna repeat much, but I predicted the taking of power over power by the French as of 2010. I have drawn the attention of the various rulers to this. In the last three months, at my request, there have been three debates. I am always in favour of legally anchoring the agreements made between the CEO of Air France-KLM and our government. That's the crux. The agreements made are in a MoU, a memorandum or understanding. For the people at home: this is a rag of paper, which is nothing. I spent two years on the De Wit Committee and it turned out that a memorandum of understanding is not worth anything at all; nothing at all. We therefore want these agreements between the CEO of Air France-KLM and our government from 2015 to be legally anchored. I'll mention them in a moment. We have also tabled motions: make sure that shares are purchased by the Dutch state. That's the second thing that has to happen. Don't go, as Mr. Paternotte wishes, toss KLM in the market. No, at least increase the stock package to an equal share as that of the French. Make sure that growth is possible at Schiphol Airport, because that also means that KLM gets hit. By the way, I had really counted on the VVD's support when I asked for Schiphol to grow now that Lelystad is locked. Because that's also a blow to KLM. KLM already operates in a completely unequal playing field. Make sure that KLM's current president-director becomes the second CEO within the Air France-KLM holding. I will, if necessary, table a motion for that. How much money is involved to increase our share package equally? I would have liked to know. Even VNO-NCW top man De Boer indicates that this is a good option. This is also reported by aviation experts. What happens if Macron blows the place up? Then the KLM, our profitable KLM, our national pride, will be sucked into the kolk. For many years we have let the French eat the Dutch, the delicious primeval Dutch cheese of cork-dry baguette bread. It's over; it's end of practice. We will not let anyone play with our feet, not by anyone, nor by the French. In that respect we should be allowed to go back to the time of Michiel de Ruyter. I intend to table my motion, which I have had to amend twice in order to get the coalition as well. I had already informed the opposition that I would ask the government to include the agreements made between the Air France-KLM-CEO and the Cabinet in new legal guarantees. I ask that KLM activities and business lines should not continue to centralise the Air France-KLM holding in Paris, that no jobs be transferred from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters in Paris and that KLM maintain its independent financial management. So the greenhouse stays here: the Dutch foundations, SAK I and SAK II, and the agreements extended in 2010 read: State guarantees between the Dutch state and Air France-KLM remain in place. Finally, I asked that the growth of the loss-making or the rendition of what you want to call "Air France" should not be at the expense of the growth of the profitable KLM. I would like to say something now, Madam President. I have been predicting for a long time that one day, if things go wrong, there will be a great opportunity, especially if the French allow the company to clap, which we would never do. A parliamentary survey is going to take place. And then MPs cannot hide behind: the minister wanted this or the minister wanted it, the coalition sister, the coalition so, my group this, my group that. Members of Parliament are invited to a parliamentary inquiry. If they don't come, they can even be held hostage. You just have to come and show up. And then go on to answer why the only good motions by Member Graus have been stopped here for eight years in order to save KLM from destruction. At least they're asking us to do everything we can to prevent that from happening. Remember that I was also the one who predicted the nationalisation of banks in 2006, which took place in 2008. And I'm gonna get right on this, too. Then there's a lot of trouble here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mrs Kröger is ready to intervene, but before I give her the floor, I would like to agree on the number of interruptions. I'd like to answer four questions in the first term. You can do that in a row, once, twice, only four questions. Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u8	I have a single question for Mr Graus. Has he also read in the SMEA for the future of Schiphol that the scenario where there is a ceiling on the number of flights at Schiphol is positive for KLM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u9	There's so much talk and so much writing and everything. I need to see it all happen. I don't believe in that myself. Again, we'll see, but I've been here 12 years. You may read all Acts. Every spoken word of Mr Graus is recorded, and I think he is still in the Chamber. I hope you will. At least it's all digitally fixed. All my spoken words are fixed. All my warnings are tied up. And I've never been wrong in all the predictions I've made. I didn't get the name Nostradionus here for nothing, you know. I didn't get it for nothing. Prove to me once that I have been wrong with the predictions I have made over the last 12 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u10	I would nevertheless say that Mr Graus is wrong on one point, because he is in favour of the Dutch state buying shares in the holding company Air France-KLM. We know that the French State is the largest shareholder in it, while the Dutch State is not in it. Air France is very bad. KLM is actually doing very well. KLM gains two thirds of the profits with only half of the number of aircraft. So why do you think it's good for Air France-KLM if the Dutch state is going to buy 14% of the shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u11	I think that's the only way. I have mentioned the points: legal anchoring, increasing the stock package........................................................................................................................................................... Those are all points. I just presented a whole package, Mr. Paternotte. And the name Paternotte comes from Fathernoster; you didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u12	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr Paternotte honours his name in this sense that he could talk a nun out of the monastery. My story is supported, Mr Paternoster, through the chairman, by aviation scientists, by financially and economically skilled people who are competent in this matter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u15	... and even by Mr De Boer of VNO-NCW, not even the first, but I think even through the entire KLM-direction. I think there might even be a plane named after me when it goes on like this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u16	That's what I want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u17	...Mr. Paternoster. Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u20	Can I fly with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u21	Yes. Sure. For a small payment, because it must all be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u22	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. Most people love the KLM, our Royal Air Company. We all have feelings about that. Last week I also noticed that we all have an opinion on it. Especially when you've been abroad for a while, you're always happy to board that beautiful blue swan that will bring you home safely. That national sense of pride is beautiful, but we must not forget that KLM is a French-Dutch company. For the VVD, the company Air France-KLM has to solve the problems itself. And in the end, after a strike, everyone has to get back to work. Air France-KLM would benefit if it became more efficient, especially in France. As far as the VVD is concerned, Air France really needs to get on with its business around Paris. Does the Minister agree with us? Due to the strikes in France, the Dutch branch of the Air France-KLM group is also suffering. It doesn't feel right if you, as a stewardess or ground worker, had to turn in your salary a while back in favour of maintaining jobs and seeing your French colleagues strike. The low profits of the group evaporate in this way. The Dutch appreciate their French colleagues and vice versa, but sometimes there are those strikes. There are also unmistakable cultural differences and complex relationships, making it sometimes a somewhat complicated marriage. Some outsiders say that KLM needs to become independent again: KLM is that national pride; we all do it ourselves. But an independent KLM is not viable. Miss the scale and benefits you need to survive in this competitive market. At the moment, the blue swan may seem like the chicken with the golden eggs, but the company was very vulnerable a while back. It is not for nothing that the company was taken over and merged 15 years ago. In this competitive sector, you just need to be able to hold your own pants. If you're too expensive, you end up losing it. We must fight unfair competition, especially because of the Middle East carriers. This must be combated at European level. That is why I regret that it has not recently been possible to bring the EU into line with this. So my question to the Minister is what she can do in this and what she can do to her European colleagues to stop this unfair competition from the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u24	I am extremely pleased to hear Mr Dijkstra say that unfair competition in aviation must be combated. I am curious to see what his views are on, for example, false self-employment at Ryanair. These also reduce the working conditions, which also means that KLM has to compete with the low prices that Ryanair can offer. What does the VVD group think of false self-employment among pilots?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u25	We have to compete. For this we have a playing field in Europe, if it is right, in terms of a level playing field, when it comes to labour market rules. If that is not the case, action must be taken against it. I want companies to be able to compete in a level playing field. That is certainly not the case with the Middle East. You say that there are also differences within Europe. If so, you just have to see if the law is being complied with or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u26	That sounds good, too. Our eastern neighbours and southern neighbors, Belgium and Germany, have both raided Ryanair to check and see if there is false self-employment. At least steps are taken against Ryanair at our neighbors. I think it is very likely that this will happen here; I do not think they will make an exception for the Netherlands. Does the VVD group agree with us that Ryanair should be treated harder here too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u27	It's for a judge or a public prosecutor to take action against it. If they see reason to do so, they will undoubtedly do so, as they do abroad. However, I cannot say much about things that are under the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr. Chairman. The continuity and quality of Schiphol as our network link, our hub with the rest of the world, with good accessibility for our country, is truly a very important link in our economy. I often refer to the 326 direct connections we have with the rest of the world. How does the Cabinet assess the position of the KLM in that playing field, in that hub, in the whole of our aviation in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. It would be wise to continue to appoint, in talks with the French, Mr Graus, the 2004 agreements and the subsequent written agreements in 2015, including the non-movement of activities, flights and jobs to Paris. The cash position must also be appointed. If the opportunity arises, especially now, to try to capture it or even anchor it, or whatever you want to call it, that might help. At least that brings peace to the tent. I think the momentum is now too to try to do so. Knowing that our influence is limited, but bearing in mind that political pressure can certainly help, also towards the French, I ask the Cabinet whether it is prepared to make an effort to do so. Where can the cabinet go? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a cry for help. The closing at Schiphol Airport until 2020 will only increase the call for flights to be relocated. KLM will also suffer from this. New destinations will not be added or they will even have to turn in other destinations. Either it simply emigrates to airports such as Paris, London or Frankfurt, or even outside Europe. Can the Minister indicate how she is watching over Schiphol's competitiveness and indirectly about KLM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u31	I have the same question to Mr Dijkstra as to his colleague Graus: how does he reflect on the conclusions on page 16 of the Exploratory SME Policy Alternatives Aviation? These are different scenarios, where the environmental hub scenario is also a scenario. For GroenLinks this is an extremely attractive scenario. There is indeed a lock and the ceiling is maintained at Schiphol Airport. It is said that this is an advantageous position for KLM because there are historical rights and so you actually have less competition, which can be profitable for KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mrs Kröger's report should be mentioned differently; we have had a lot of reports with different scenarios in recent times. I think I know what report you're referring to, namely that with the red front. It's either Decisio's or someone else's. Anyway, there were several scenarios in there for Schiphol, four of them, I think. One of its main conclusions was: the fewer rules and the more opportunities, the better it is for the economy. So if I had to choose something, I would prefer to choose it, knowing that we are, of course, dealing with residents and all kinds of environmental rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u33	Your third question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u34	Then I really recommend that Mr Dijkstra read this report carefully before he says that the growth of Schiphol is necessary for KLM's position. Because that is not explicitly the conclusion that this study draws. We discussed this study during the previous debate on aviation. I think it is important for Mr Dijkstra to take these conclusions to heart before he claims here that the growth of Schiphol is necessary for KLM's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u35	A brief response, Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u36	That is not a question, but I have read, perhaps in other reports, that precisely that metropolis airport offers many opportunities. If we put a brake on something, it also means a brake on KLM. I just want to give our economy and our beautiful blue swan all the space to grow, to at least maintain the position they have now and even to get better. I think that's good and in the best interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u38	Madam President. Pieter Jelles Troelstra wrote it proudly: "The wheels will stand still if your mighty arm wills." He mentioned the 1903 railroad strike. It was a huge success, because it was the rights of port workers in Amsterdam, for whom it was forbidden to join a trade union at all, while they had to unload 48 hours a week and with little technology. Then we'll go to Paris for 115 years. Then we see striking pilots asking for €20,000 in storage at a company that is in trouble and that doesn't even come to sense after weeks of strikes, the resignation of the CEO and a call from other French trade unions. I think even Pieter Jelles Troelstra would conclude: get to work, or at least go poldering even though he didn't know that word yet. It is incredibly unfortunate that the KLM here has to watch its reputation and results received friendly fire from Paris. Of course, that doesn't change the fact that KLM needs a strong European partner to be strong itself. In good times, Air France has been that strong partner. In addition, KLM may retain its own profit and loss account and decides independently on its investments in the fleet and the network. So the question is, what is the best thing for the KLM? As far as we are concerned, the problem here is not that the Netherlands has too little control over KLM, but that France has too much control over Air France. It is never good if such a large company is an extension of the presidential palace. Most of the top nominations in Air France are from the Elysée. That's why it's expected that the government will always jump in when Air France really threatens to fall. This way you will not get a full-fledged company or a credible partner for KLM. That far too cozy bond between the French state and Air France needs to change. There is also an opportunity, because the Macron administration is doing things differently now and does not want to save Air France at all costs. The Accor hotel group has confirmed its interest in participating, and Delta Airlines would also consider increasing its stake in the holding company. As I said, Macron's gonna do it differently. Yesterday it was also announced that the interest in Aéroports de Paris will be reduced and that the lotteries Française des Jeux will be privatised. Those are all very nice signals. It would help greatly if the French State were to reduce its interest and no longer by far the largest shareholder. How does the Minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u39	I can also tell you how I feel about that, but I am going to put a question to Mr Paternotte. He starts his speech with pilots who want €20,000 extra, who strike and don't go to work. I wonder if Mr Paternotte can also see the overall picture of why the pilots stopped. After all, it's not just about pay. It concerns the fact that Air France has tried to keep the unions out of the door, has tried to make agreements without unions, that the workload has increased enormously and that the staff are simply being exploited. What does Mr Paternotte think of that, rather than just looking at wages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u40	It's the first time I've heard a SP'er stand up for people who earn above the beaming norm. In that respect, we are making something new about this. But when I look at the situation in France, I see that they are asking for a raise based on the reasoning that a catch-up should be made and that a number of other airlines have given pilots even more storage. The French pilots are way above average. It's a moderately performing company. The numbers of cabin crew members per passenger are also lower at KLM than at Air France. So I don't recognize the picture you're sketching in that regard. I don't think it's up to us to interfere. What I see is that there are strikes week after week, where KLM suffers a lot and on which all independent experts actually consider that there is a huge unreasonableness in the demands that are being put on the table. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mr. Laçin, this is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u42	No problem. So this is a much broader picture than just the salary requirement. Again, Air France has tried to make agreements by excluding trade unions. Pilots have an enormous workload. Then you can talk about a Balkenende norm that I would be in favour of, but we are talking about the total picture that workers have to work in. That's the point. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte on his conclusion: what exactly are we meddling in? You say it yourself: we must not interfere too much with what is happening there. Yet you make that kind of statement about pilots on strike. So what do you think now? Should we or should we not interfere in that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u43	We have a lot of interest in what's going on there. Schiphol actually has a mainport function, whether we like it or not, thanks to KLM. KLM's position depends to a very large extent on the French company with which it forms a single holding company. When people start booking a ticket with KLM, and they know that part of that trip is with Air France, they wonder: is it going to be done, isn't it stopped? Hundreds of millions are being pulled out of the window, as Minister Wopke Hoekstra said. Of course, the right to strike is very important. But as much as it is stopped there, I don't think it's ever been shown here. And I agree with what the Minister said in that regard: either get to work or go polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u44	I will continue on this point because this is going to be a bit of a weird debate. In fact, we are debating negotiations and actions that are being conducted in France, which we are not discussing. Meanwhile, D66 says the union is crazy, when I know the culture there is very different. They will receive a communication and have to do with it. They're not even at the table. I thought I'd put that nuance on. But I have another question. D66 argues in favour of selling the shares held in French hands. Perhaps this is about the shares that are in Dutch hands. That's what I'm looking for. It calls for the sale of French shares in Air France-KLM. Does that mean that we should sell the Dutch shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u45	That's not an end in itself. I think it is very important that this link between the French state and Air France-KLM should be much less close. Half of Air France's board members are former politicians who have been appointed there. The French state has an enormous influence in this respect. The State also has double voting rights with a 14% share in the shareholders' meeting. I believe that if the French State disposes of its shares, it expects the Dutch State to take the same step, whether it is a partial or a complete phasing-out. And indeed, we have nothing to do with the shares of KLM that we now have. If we can achieve that we are helping KLM in the sense that the ties between the French state and Air France are less close, then we are taking a very good step, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u46	That's my fear, too. When we start selling shares, we also reduce the Dutch influence and therefore the influence of the cabinet on the talks in France. I would like to take another step. If we in D66 were to be involved in state participation, would we have to reject Schiphol's shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u47	No, I'm not suggesting that at all. We have a majority stake in Schiphol. We do indeed have a lot to say there, as you will probably notice. You say that we would lose influence if we, as a Dutch state, no longer had the shares KLM. Can you give me one example of what we have ever achieved with that 5.92% of the shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u48	I'm gonna get into this, Mr. Chairman. At this very moment there is plenty of consultation between the cabinet and the Elysée. We have to wait for that. So in that sense, this debate is also a bit crazy. That is precisely the influence we currently have from the Netherlands. I think it's really weird that we're going to be asking for a French state shareholding to be sold, please. Please let us use the influence we have in a sensible way and not put on big pants and launch all kinds of wild plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr President, may I comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u50	Yeah, sure, you're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u51	I hear the minister going to Paris because of that 5.92% of the shares. You will not find anyone who says that the Netherlands can do a lot with that 5.92%. We are just sitting there at the table because the Dutch government has a great interest in that company. We are also negotiating air transport agreements and landing rights on behalf of KLM. At least, it's not just on KLM's behalf, but it's in her best interest. And we just keep doing that. In fact, if it all depended on the share... The minister who sits here is not the manager of that stock. So I hope that Mr Van Dijk will soon be able to give an example of what we have ever achieved with that very small share of KLM, because otherwise he's scaring people about losing influence that we don't have at all. I think we can really do something if Air France gets further away from the French state.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u52	I would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte for being able to divert attention to the rescue of Schiphol in the major Schiphol debate recently by coming up with the idea of an island of perhaps 80 billion, or 100 billion, for which there is no cover. Now it is about the rescue and preservation of KLM and Mr Paternotte manages to draw attention to himself with an idea for KLM's squandering. He also knows how to get all the media, all of which fall for it. But the point is this: however, in the field of experts, what Mr Paternotte does not seem to be is to say that you must at least legally anchor the agreements made. The motion could not count on the support of the coalition, not even of D66, but if I added the word 'obligatory effort', also on the advice of Minister Hoekstra, it might have a chance of success. So if I amend my motion in such a way that I make it an effort, and at least we send the Minister home with an effort, could Mr Paternotte support that motion, which I also held on behalf of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u53	We do support what you call for. I would also like to call on the Minister to go to Paris as soon as possible, by the way, preferably by train, to reconfirm the previous agreements. That's also something Secretary of State Mansveld did. Secretary of State Dijksma went to Paris in her first week to reconfirm the agreements. That was a very important signal for KLM, I think. I ask the Minister to do the same at this turbulent time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u54	But I've already asked three rulers, and it never happened. That's why I tabled that motion. You always have to have a stick behind the door. And by increasing the stock package, Mr. Paternotte wants you to always increase your strength and power. That's the way it is in every company. And does Mr Paternotte also agree with me that we should send not only the Minister of IenW, but also the Prime Minister and our King and Queen, and that there should also be diplomatic pressure on the French?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u55	I think Mr. Graus is willing to take everyone out of the can and send them there. If it is necessary in the national interest, I think it is very good that we should use those who can achieve the best results there. I think the Prime Minister also often speaks to Emmanuel Macron. I'm sure he'll use those conversations on this subject, too. But I agree with you that it is very good for the Paris Minister to sit down with the administration of Air France-KLM and represent the KLM interest there, and to ensure that the agreements that are there are respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u56	France is also an important trading partner, so what you use there always helps. If you're gonna do that to the king and the queen and the prime minister... The more the better and the better when it comes to the French. I am counting on Mr Paternotte to support my motion, which I have already amended twice, so that at least we have a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u57	I will not do that if this motion is about us as a Dutch state having to buy shares in Air France/KLM. We see that KLM is actually doing quite well without the Netherlands having shares. I'm just not in favour of that. I don't think that makes the company stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u58	Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u59	No. No motions have been tabled. Mr. Graus, wait a minute. You haven't filed a motion yet. You are talking about a motion that has yet to be tabled and you are asking what you think about it. That makes it a little complicated; let me put it this way. One last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u60	Madam President, I would like to respond to what you have to say. Then I'll keep that last question. After all, I have tabled a motion, and I have held it. So that motion has indeed been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u61	Okay, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u62	I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u63	And Mr Paternotte knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Paternotte knows that like no other, so so. But I'm going back to my place and I'm saving the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u65	Then I won't count this question as interrupting. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u66	I have an enlightening question, because we are getting two totally different signals from Mr Paternotte. On the one hand, he says that the Minister must go to Paris as soon as possible to try to help in this situation behind the scenes in diplomatic traffic. And on the other hand, he makes the very brutal call that the Netherlands should sell shares and therefore pull France over the line to sell its shares as well. How does Mr Paternotte think that the proposal he launched yesterday really helps in the situation of Air France-KLM? How does it increase the Minister's ability to contribute to the solution? For what problem is this a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u67	I'll try to explain that. The problem in France is that Air France is too much an extension of the French state. During the merger of Air France and KLM, we, as governments, agreed that this would stop and that France would completely reduce its interest. The Netherlands would, by the way, do the same. This has been done to a considerable extent, but the French State is still the largest shareholder. Half of Air France's board members are former politicians and appointed from French politics. This does not make Air France a real company, which can compete well in a very competitive aviation market, which we only make more spicy by setting a ceiling on Schiphol Airport. I am in favour of this; let us be clear about that. I believe that the link between the French State and Air France should be much less narrow. It would be very good for KLM if Air France became more of a real company, with shareholders interested in a competitive company. If the French are closing down, then we will also close down; that was also the agreement in 2003. I think this is a rather small sacrifice for the Netherlands, because those few shares of KLM that we still have do not matter very much. I have asked before if there is an example of something we have ever achieved. There isn't. I think it is a good idea to make agreements with the French and to raise them right away. In this way, we can best help KLM; by making sure that Air France becomes a real company if there is a chance, with the Macron administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u68	I understand the spirit of Mr Paternotte, who says that less French interference means that the French must stand more on their own feet, but the means to do so... What impression does that make? Are you suggesting that a French parliamentarians say that we should sell the shares of Schiphol, that we should reject NS or whatever? What impression does that make?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u69	If there is a Dutch-French company and we in the Netherlands should be alienating our shares, then I think it makes sense to ask the French to do the same. We see that the tone of the Macron administration is very different from that of all the governments. Before that, it was obvious that Air France was far too important for France. Now Macron says if Air France goes bankrupt, we're not going to save them, they have to be competitive themselves. I think this appeals to you, too. We saw yesterday that the Macron Government has announced its intention to withdraw to a large extent from Aéroports de Paris, the Paris airports, and from La Française des Jeux, the French state lottery. These are special, far-reaching steps, which occur for the first time there. I see this as a climate in which for the first time there is an opportunity to make good agreements with the French Government on reducing that interest. This probably automatically means that we also need to reduce our interest. What kind of impression does that make? I think that the Macron Government will have its own opinion on this, but if they do, they will want to make agreements with us as well. I hope that the Minister does not rule out our willingness to make these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u70	All right, that trend is going on, but Mr Paternotte will agree with me that this really is up to the French themselves. He's just making a suggestion, that's basically what it's all about. Then my question. We have 5.92% shares in the NV KLM and we don't have them for nothing. That was the case at the time because it protects our landing rights. What do you think of that? Do we have to get rid of it? What kind of risks does that pose? Have you thought about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u71	I think it's okay to explain the construction. We have already cut our shares in KLM, but we have not done so in such a way that KLM's Dutch nationality would be lifted, because that is linked to the landing rights and the aviation treaties. It is in the interests of everyone here that KLM keeps Dutch nationality. That is, of course, formal, because economic control lies equally with the holding company Air France-KLM. That Dutch nationality is guaranteed in the Stichting Administratiekantoor 1 and 2. The logical aim would be to bring those shares there, i.e. indeed outside the State; no more state participation, but still a guarantee of Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u72	It's all quite technical, Mr. Chairman. Just because of the 5.92% and the 44.6% we have in those foundations you mention, we have over 50. I think that's important. The moment you lose that, you really need to consider whether it's worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u73	Minister Zalm himself brought most of the shares to those administrative offices. I'm talking about a very small lump that we're talking about. We could also bring that to those administration offices and then nothing changes about KLM's Dutch nationality. After all, that's not what I'm talking about either. I am concerned that Air France should be remote from the French state. It may also take a step from us, if this is the case. Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to the argument I was working on. My final question is what the Minister thinks. If the French are willing to reduce their interest in the group, is the Dutch share in KLM sacred to her? If we could agree to cross the border with the French, or if the French state reduces that interest, then there is also the idea behind the horizon that the French State still has a capital injection behind its back. Finally, I would like to join Mr Graus and Mr Dijkstra in reminding them that Sharon Dijksma went to Paris as Secretary of State in her first week as Secretary of State. I do not know if she did so by train, but I hope that this Minister will do so by train in order to talk to the Air France-KLM administration, to reconfirm and anchor the agreements on his own greenhouse, the jobs, the headquarters and preferably the network of KLM with Air France-KLM. Now's the time to do that. It is also in the interest of Air France that the uncertainty at KLM comes to an end. Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, to my colleagues. At the same time, in a debate on debt, I must be an issue which is also important, and which I am going to go to in a moment. I would like to be here for a moment, given KLM's interest in aviation and the Dutch economy, and given that we must do everything we can to protect and protect that interest. In this sense, I agree with what Mr Graus and Mr Dijkstra have to say: talk and ensure that KLM's position is properly guaranteed. I therefore have the same question to the Minister to follow up on these speakers and to be very active in doing so. In that sense, I have every confidence in that. I am standing here to slightly nuance this debate. Mr Paternotte just pointed out the beautiful trade union traditions that each country knows. Each country also has a different trade union tradition. We know that the French trade union tradition is different from that in the Netherlands. I would like to draw attention to the importance of trade unions in the Netherlands for aviation when it comes to safety at Schiphol Airport, for example. Where do the signals come from? They come from different unions, from the pilots' union but also from the ground staff. And that's a big good. Where do the signals come from when it comes to the working pressure of the Marechaussee at Schiphol? They come from different unions. Where do the signals come from when it comes to baggage handling and its quality at Schiphol Airport? They're from the unions. So, of course, we can talk in this house about negotiations that are not taking place in our country and which have a completely different culture and of course everyone can have an opinion on it, but I think we should be careful in the Netherlands, also in the footsteps of Mr Dijkstra, to put on a big pair of pants by saying: what is happening there in France cannot. First of all, we're not here. Second of all, we're not going over it. Thirdly, the overarching importance that we all share is the importance of KLM and the importance that also serves the cabinet when it comes to KLM's independence and economic position. So I really want to put that nuance when it comes to putting people away in France. The culture is a different one. It's like this. Management comes and says to the employees: this must be it, I am holding a referendum, and goodbye. That is a very different culture from that in the Netherlands. We have occasional actions but in the end we always have to sit down at the table, and that leads to results. So, in that sense, I want to nuance this debate. It is very important to keep an eye on the importance of trade unions for the quality of aviation in particular, and that is what I would like to cherish. And another nuance about the differences between Air France and KLM. We have also heard several people from KLM about it. The pilots of KLM also have a high workload, as do the other employees of KLM. Only, it is being discussed at the collective bargaining table at the moment. Although no action has yet been organised on this subject, there is also a high workload. The employees of KLM are asked to deliver absolute quality, rightly, but they also have to do so under high pressure because there are too few pilots and it is becoming increasingly crowded at Schiphol Airport. So in that sense, I would like to encourage you to continue to pay particular attention to this issue and to increase the quality of aviation. In this respect, therefore, an ode to the trade unions. Let them take action for a long time, but above all let them hold good consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr Paternotte has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u77	I think it is nice and right that Mr Van Dijk should pay tribute to the trade unions. That's what I tried to do myself with quoting Pieter Jelles Troelstra. My question is actually whether Mr Van Dijk is convinced of my plea to ask the French or at least propose to reduce their shares in Air France-KLM, as agreed at the time of the merger in 2003.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u78	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u79	Well, that's short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u80	I'm about to process this answer. Then my question is whether Mr Van Dijk also has arguments and arguments, especially since he said that that share is incredibly important and I explained why it is not and I asked him to give examples of what we did with that share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u81	It has already been referred to. When that deal was made, it was also said that a number of landing rights were agreed. The KLM can fly to Tokyo because of the agreements at the time about the shares and the distribution. So that's back from a while ago. That's one. Two: I think that Mr Paternotte is really having this debate in the wrong way. He talks first of all about shares in France, while we have to talk in this debate about KLM's importance and how we can best defend it in the Netherlands. I think Mr Paternotte is putting on a rather big pair of pants to shout to the French as a Dutch MP: I don't like your consultative culture, I don't like your culture of action, so government, go away. I'd say stay out of this. We are here for the Dutch interest, for the interest of KLM. In this sense, I have every confidence in the cabinet that it will do that well, including in the agreements with the French.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u82	I get the impression you're someone who talks a nun out of the monastery a lot further. If I ask you a question, you will say that the debate is being held in the wrong way and you will make a huge dance around it. I explain to you that the KLM share has nothing to do with landing rights. This is linked to the Dutch nationality of KLM. Over the last 15 years, we've cut the stock massively. That nationality is secured in an administration office. We don't need those shares for that. So now that you are once again confronted with the fact that these shares are not needed, are you prepared to make a move if such a decision is made by the French Government or if the Macron Government wants to make that move, even if the Netherlands does? Or are you saying, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u83	The Labour Party attaches importance to shares in, for example, KLM and to shares in Schiphol, in which we naturally have a much larger voice, precisely because of the influence we can have in various ways. That is indeed through the landing rights from IenW and through Wopke Hoekstra through financial interest. So I do not see anything in Mr Paternotte's argument and then say: let's sell those shares in line with the French, and Air France will be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u84	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u85	Mr. Chairman. There is a lot in aviation: concerns about safety, a growing impact on residents and climate, but also the position of workers, both in the air and on the ground and in several countries around the world, including in the Netherlands. Air transport has become a sector in a race to the bottom, where only with tough competition at prices can airlines survive. Flight tickets have no real price and growth is at the expense of the environment, climate and local residents. No tax is paid and there is unfair competition from budget airlines which, through bogus structures, reduce labour costs. And when I say "no tax," I mean, of course, the taxation of kerosene. Companies take the flight forward and think that only by putting more and even cheaper tickets on the market can they survive. But we're hitting the borders of neighbors, climate, the planet. And quantitative growth in aviation is not an option. This complex context is the context in which I think we should consider the situation of Air France-KLM. I would like to stress that this is, as far as I am concerned, a French labour dispute and that we in the House of Representatives should treat it as such. Of course, it is important for us that this labour dispute is resolved properly. I hope that it will also be clear soon about the company's new leadership, so that it can focus on solving these and other issues. Strike is an important right. That must be respected. There seem to be a number of factors involved in this conflict, including pension building and the fact that Air France wants to transfer part of its operation to low-cost subsidiaries. This is in line with the trend in aviation where there is increasing competition on labour costs. This is worrying from the point of view of workers' rights, but certainly also given the warnings from pilot unions that this has implications for safety. Then specifically about KLM's position within the Air France-KLM holding. At that time, agreements were made whereby KLM kept control of its own finances. As far as I am concerned, it is important that this stays the same, especially given the fact that the Netherlands has the ambition to be the frontrunner in the sustainability of aviation. The profits that KLM is now making can be invested in quickly phasing out the old, dirty and noisy aircraft. The question, raised by several of my colleagues, is: does the present 1 million provide enough guarantees for the future that it will remain so? I would very much like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u86	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u87	Mr. Chairman. We are again here today discussing the possible strikes within Air France, a subsidiary of Air France-KLM. The previous strikes have damaged hundreds of millions of hard-earned money. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that this causes great concern and unrest for the Dutch subsidiary KLM, which is making considerable progress with an operational profit, greater than that of Air France. This hurts, and it hurts, at a company that celebrates its 100th anniversary next year. Mr. Chairman. In our view, there can be no misunderstanding that KLM, especially in combination with Schiphol, is of national importance for the Netherlands. The KLM Group, with around 32,000 employees, 10 billion euros turnover, 30 million passengers and 635 tons of freight, is able to fly through their network to 225 destinations, from the small Netherlands. Can the Minister reflect what this means for the Dutch government and how she adequately represents Dutch interests, now and in the future? The key question is, will the agreements set out in the March 2015 letter really be respected in the future? So, even in the long term, we don't get a transfer of business lines and jobs from KLM to the holding company, and certainly not a burrow in the KLM cash? Important question is: what will the Minister do to underline these agreements with the Air France-KLM summit? Can the Minister indicate what help or space she can use from the Chamber? We also ask the Minister what suggestions KLM itself has made to its shareholders, which of course should also be feasible. Can she tell us anything about this? Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the competitive position of KLM and, of course, of Air France. We would like to hear what the Minister thinks about whether KLM can survive without Air France. It is clear that KLM suffers from strikes at Air France, but perhaps we should conclude that KLM is probably best off with the French partner. After all, KLM gets on the road and scores better than Air France's small 600 million with an operating profit of 910 million euros in 2017. We are very curious about KLM's plans, how it will be able to maintain a strong competitive position in a very dynamic and innovative world in the future. Is or is the Minister being updated by KLM and what can or can she share with the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The collective agreement agreed by KLM with the unions was rejected last week by the trade unionists. Pain point is the workload. There's a threat of work interruptions. The CDA Group understands very well that politics should not interfere with this. It's a conflict between employees and employer. As a shareholder, we can only give the signal that we are concerned, because such actions are not in the interests of both the company and the passengers. And perhaps the French are also looking at what is happening in the Netherlands with a slanted eye. Mr. Chairman. Is our conclusion that the European Union is not going to pursue an active policy against unfair competition from non-European airlines? According to the CDA Group, it is only when companies can clearly demonstrate that they have suffered financial damage that the European Commission can intervene. We are in favour of fair competition and fair play. Air France-KLM and Lufthansa want Brussels to be able to open an investigation at an early stage in order to minimise the damage to airlines. What was the Minister's position at the Transport Council and what is her position now? Finally. If you're in a storm at sea and passengers get restless and worried, you shouldn't panic. Yesterday we saw D66 do this with KLM's sale in the form of shares. I do not know when KLM will be better off: shares in the hands of the Dutch state or sales, for example to the Chinese. How does the Minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u88	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u89	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have three seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u90	I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u91	This is my last interruption of the first term. I was able to read the stories, the simsalabim, of Mr. Paternotte in the papers this morning. I couldn't address Mr. Dijkstra because he actually said it here. That's how I heard the papers didn't lie about it. Can you comment on Mr. Paternotte's story that we should waste KLM rather than save it? Because you are a coalition partner, I say through you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mr Ronnes, who makes state participations, has responded to this. I think he literally said something about a blank. I don't know if that's a coincidence or if Mr Paternotte can confirm that, but let's be honest: I think KLM's interest supports everyone in this House of Representatives. But again: it's restless at KLM. The thousands of staff are watching what we are saying here in this Chamber and how we stand up for national interest. That is what we are asking the Minister. Then, in our view, it does not help to get back to the KLM via the French and say: we are going to sell those shares. I think it has just been said: the State has those shares. Together with these two foundations we have 50.1%. That is a good percentage, with which we can exercise formal and informal influence in Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u93	You have actually provoked Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u94	It was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u95	He was standing here, but then there was no interruption. He is now given the opportunity to say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u96	Thank you, Mr President. I hear the word "sellout," I hear the word "losse" and I hear the word "flodder."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u97	Those aren't my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u98	They are the words of Mr Ronnes. I assume that Mr Ronnes has given this a lot of thought. When I hear that, I have to think of the fact that during the eight years that the CDA was the largest party in this country in this century and Jan-Peter Balkenende was Prime Minister, a tenfold of the KLM stock package that I propose as you call it "for sale" has been done. Do you conclude that Jan-Peter Balkenende is the champion of the blanks and the sale of KLM, or can you better support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u99	I think it's always important, when you're driving or doing things, that you also keep the momentum in mind: at what point do I do what? What Mr Paternotte is saying is that I want to have the share of the Dutch State, together with that of the two foundations, below 50.1%. What's in it for me? What good is it if I sell that 6% today? We might get 200 million for that. Tomorrow, it'll be vaporized. What good is that gonna do us? How does this contribute to solving the problem we have today? The KLM must also be future-proof and there must be peace in the organisation. The KLM must compete. Because I think that is the most important thing that KLM, but also Air France, can compete in the aviation industry. The sale of shares doesn't help at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u100	I regret that Mr Amhaouch really does not go into the whole speech I am making here. I'm not saying "get rid of the stock," I'm saying "make arrangements with the French." Agreements made under the CDA government in 2003 to reduce this interest as both countries together, thus reducing the enormous influence of French politics on Air France. Do you think it would be good for KLM if the French state had less influence on Air France? That's the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u101	What I absolutely do not want is for us to move in the next direction. I believe that Mr Van Dijk, who is not here now, said that too. That is to say that we say to the French state 'build up your share'. They already have much more than we have to sell, and we have to sell. So you're gonna have a crooked ratio and we're gonna fall below 50.1%. We don't want that. Then help me: for what problem is this a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u102	Thank you. I call Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u103	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do a bit of a nuanced story today. You're not used to it from me, and neither is the Minister. I must say that I like to talk about actions and strikes. I have been allowed to work for six years as a trade unionist at the FNV and to organize and carry out countless actions and strikes. In previous debates I have also often talked about actions and strikes, but I was often the only one back then. I'm glad the colleagues are in on it now. I will therefore defend the right to strike at all times, because strike is always the last resort for workers. Strike isn't funny. Workers know that their actions affect others. In aviation, of course, that is the passengers. I therefore find it inappropriate to say that Members of Parliament have expressed their negative views on strikers and trade unions over the past period and also today in the debate. Actions and strikes have brought us a great deal of good, and that will be no different in the future. I find it special to have a debate here today in the Dutch Parliament on strikes and actions in France. The unrest in France, of course, also affects the situation in the Netherlands. That is not going to change, because just half an hour ago, the Air France-KLM management sided with the unions' offer. There will be strikes again at the end of June. I can tell you that now. The question arises, of course, whether the unrest there could be at the expense of employment here. KLM is one of the biggest employers in our country and we do not want to lose it. The developments in France have fueled the sentiment that KLM could continue independently and Air France would not need at all. The people who claim that I recommend looking back at the interview with KLM-CEO Pieter Elbers in Buitenhof of 13 May. He serves all prejudices about a successful independent KLM existence. Mr Dijkstra just said the same thing. KLM has been taken over by Air France, but has a good position while maintaining its own profit and loss account. I would like to hear from the Minister what possibilities she sees for holding this position of KLM within the holding company and, as Mr Graus has said, legally anchoring it so that we have certainty towards the future. I would also ask the Minister to explain what talks she had with the French government and the Air France administration on the actions and strikes. What has she been able to do in order to find a solution? An independent KLM can undergo the same conditions as national airlines such as Sabena, Alitalia and Swissair. They no longer exist, stand on falls or can only continue in very undressed form. As I said before, KLM with 32,000 employees is one of the largest employers in our country. We want to keep those jobs. A blow to KLM also means a blow to Schiphol Airport, with which even more jobs are on the way. Not only in France, but also in the Netherlands there are regular actions by workers. KLM's cabin crew and Transavia pilots were not so long ago, and last week members of the VNV, the largest pilots' union in the Netherlands, rejected KLM's collective agreement offer. I would like to call on the Minister to take an active stance, together with the Minister of Finance, and to engage with the KLM and the trade unions in order to find a solution quickly. Because that plays here in the Netherlands and we might be able to influence that a little more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u104	I did enjoy this speech in which a former trade unionist and now MP quotes a CEO in Buitenhof. He's also quoting the VVD. I like that. It is a good thing that people should know for themselves, but the strike announced does not seem to me to be very sensible. Does Mr Laçin agree with me that the strikers can shoot themselves with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u105	Once again, I believe that we, as Dutch MPs, should not make statements about whether or not to strike in France. That's what the unions there determine, that's what the activists and strikers there determine. They determine when and how they act. I have tried to outline the situation in an interruption with Mr Paternotte. It is a very different trade union and strike culture in France. I think that I should be very cautious about whether or not to strike in France. They're gonna strike, and that's their right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. Mr. Dijkstra, you're through your interruptions, but you can say something very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u107	We're not talking about it, but it affects the Netherlands. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u108	I made that clear in my speech. It certainly affects the Netherlands, it causes unrest, it may cost jobs in the future, and we should not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u109	At least you agree on this point. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u110	I think we agree, too. Mr Laçin mentioned the importance of KLM and its 32,000 employees. We must preserve it for now and for the future. Mr Laçin is always very critical. Today is still quite quiet and mild.. very special. What space do you want to give KLM and Schiphol to develop in the future, so that they can vouch for all those jobs, directly at the airport or around the airport? Could you give us the SP's vision on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u111	Sure, I'd love to. I thank Mr Amhaouch for this question. That gives me room...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u112	Short. When I hear the word "vision"...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u113	A vision can't be short, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u114	No, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u115	Look, we've discussed this before, even in previous debates. As far as we are concerned, the 500 000 cap remains in front of Schiphol and we are not going to grow any further, but we are going to see how we can redesign the Middle East carriers, the Ryanairs or the easyJets, which do not add much to our Dutch employment and economy, so that a KLM, preferably KLM, with cargo and with more flights in those 500,000 can get more jobs. Mrs Kröger just said the same thing. There are also conclusions from several reports that KLM does not need any more flight movements at Schiphol Airport to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u116	Don't you want to ask for a vision anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u117	Sorry, I won't ask about the vision anymore. You shouldn't ask the Prime Minister either, I understand, because he'll tell you to go to the ophthalmologist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u118	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u119	So I won't ask anymore. You say we want to hold that 500,000 and we want to see what's possible within that 500,000. It is in itself a good idea that you once pull the comb through and critically look at what the added value is. But how hard is that 500,000 lock? Suppose you can grow that 500,000 in a sustainable way, as we are trying to say together. Is it that hard? Or do you say: no, if we can do this in smart ways, in sustainable ways, is the SP open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u120	I have also said in previous debates that sustainable growth in aviation in the current situation is nonsense. There's no such thing. Only when we can fly electric much later can we talk about sustainable growth. It doesn't exist right now. As far as we are concerned, 500 000 are now the cap for residents, for climate and for the environment, we are not going to play with it and we are looking at how we can give a KLM a firmer position within these 500,000 flight movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. That was the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u122	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are in this debate here because there has been unrest, actually in France. But we are all really worried about it, because of course it is our KLM. I don't want to say that there's been a competition of who loves KLM the most, but I think we can all see that everyone has a heart for this company. Perhaps Mr Graus has said it most poetically and with the most flame, but the feeling is widely shared. This is a very important company for the Netherlands: important for Schiphol, important for the hub function that we have and therefore important for the Dutch economy, for Dutch employment and for the Dutch location climate. I cannot stress enough the importance of this. It is therefore quite right that we should reflect on this and try to promote that national interest, that public interest, as well as possible. Of course, I'm following it very closely. A while ago, when the first strikes were, I had contact with the French colleague, Élisabeth Borne. Recently, just last week, we had the Transport Council in Luxembourg and I also sat down with her one-on-one, because there were also many reports in the newspaper about Accor, the hotel chain that might be interested. That got all kinds of speculation going again. With possibly also a threat of new strikes, that again feeds the unrest but also, above all, the anxiety, even among all people in the Netherlands who are directly or indirectly connected to KLM. So I asked my French colleague, Élisabeth Borne, what are you doing in it and what are the latest developments? The reaction to this was actually unchanged since the last conversation I had with her, namely: the most important thing is that Air France-KLM itself becomes competitive again and can compete internationally, so it is working on its own competitiveness. What is needed for that in the first place? Mrs Borne has also stressed this on several occasions. The first thing that's needed for that is for a new CEO to arrive. I understand they're hoping that's gonna come around this summer. If you then have a new CEO, it is of course important that the new CEO also adopts the new strategy. There was actually a new strategic plan announced for the summer. Of course, that doesn't make sense if you're still in a process towards a new CEO. So the next step is: does the new CEO agree with the strategy they had? Are there any changes to that? You'll have to wait and see. As soon as that is clear, I will also be very happy to travel to Paris or to meet with the people elsewhere. Then, of course, I will be very happy to do my best, as many of you have said, to put the rules and the agreements that we have around KLM, which have been discussed several times, also by putting on the table once more, Mrs Mansveld and Mrs Dijksma, and, where possible, more firmly. I'd love to. I am now, of course, like Mrs Borne, awaiting the new CEO. I have not been to Paris, but Mr Janaillac has been here; that is of course also nice. Janaillac came to visit us. Anyway, you all know what happened after that. He had attached his fate to the proposal. The proposal is well-tuned, so he's got a lot of weight. When there is clarity, there are new points of contact and there is a new CEO and a new strategy, that also seems to me to be the point where you can best engage in that conversation. Mr Paternotte still wanted me to take the train. Well, I'll do it with love and pleasure. I'm still Platinum Card holder of the Thalys. I can tell you: you have to be in it a lot before you do! That was, of course, from my time as a Member of the European Parliament. I'm much less in it now, but I'd really like to do that again to go to Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u124	As in the first parliamentary term, I will also allow four questions per group in this period. I call Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u125	Thank you for the Minister's fine commitment to travel with the Thalys. When she started talking about the Platinum Card, I was afraid that she wanted to get on the plane anyway. But the map was for the train, so that's very nice. The question is whether you are prepared to do so with the current administration. When it comes to reconfirming agreements, I don't think it's necessarily necessary to wait. After all, we don't know how long that is until there's a new CEO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u126	There is no reason in itself to think that there would suddenly be a change in the sense that we would no longer want to keep these agreements. Nor has the possibility of arbitration been used before. So I do not see any reason for this in the short term. If, for example, Mr Elbers, who now, of course, has a prominent role in the current administrative trio under Mrs Couderc, who is chairing this as a non-executive, should give us signals that something is about to go wrong, I am, of course, prepared to get on the train this evening. But I did not get that signal, so I would like, like the French colleague, to wait until the new CEO arrives, and then contact us as soon as possible to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u127	Mr Paternotte, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u128	The minister's talking about if something's about to go wrong. But, of course, a lot has already happened. Because Mr. Janaillac, who visited you, has already left because the staff had voted off his proposal. Much has already been stopped, so in one month the KLM operated even more sales and carried more passengers with half the number of devices. That's a lot of things that weigh heavily on that company. KLM suffers from that all the time. If the strikes now threaten to continue, we are getting some clarity about this today, then I hope the Minister will see that as a reason to talk to the current CEO, even if it is an interim CEO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u129	Sure, then there's been a misunderstanding. Of course, I remain in constant contact with the current developments. But if it's specifically about reconfirming those old agreements, I think you're gonna do that at the moment that everything, hopefully, has come back into a quieter sailing water. But you are right: if one of the agreements currently in force is in acute danger, then of course you should. Of course, we keep our finger on the French colleagues' wrists with the French Minister for Transport, but also with the company itself, and we keep an eye on what is happening. I was hoping there wouldn't be any strikes. If they do, they'll lose again. Of course, that can't go on for very long. Of course, our first point of contact is Mr Elbers, but if there are strikes, we will also be in good contact with the rest to ensure that we stay connected, because we are committed to ensuring this public interest in a good way. Once again, as regards Accor's story, the French colleague states that it is not at the moment a matter for them. She says she will not take any steps without contacting us. So I'm assuming she's keeping that promise. Questions have been asked about compliance. Has it ever happened that agreements have not been fulfilled? No, thank God. The problem has not yet arisen. That's why I expect us to be able to guarantee that. In particular, Mr Paternotte has asked whether or not it is a good idea to sell shares. I stand here as Minister of IenW and not as Minister of Finance, who deals with shareholdership. Your article was in the newspaper this morning, so I have not yet had the opportunity to discuss it with Mr Hoekstra. I can therefore imagine that I would pass on to him the specific questions relating to shareholdership and that he would reply to them in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u130	I would suggest that we accept that the Minister should not now be able to answer the questions relating to Minister Hoekstra's portfolio. But in the end, the main line of my story was about the shares of the French state in Air France-KLM. No one is really talking about that in the sense that none of our ministers manage those shares, but they have quite an impact on KLM. So I can imagine that the Minister can indicate whether she considers the extent of the influence of the French State desirable and whether she believes that this is in line with the agreements made in 2003.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u131	Those agreements were made on a reasoned basis at the time. I asked her in contact with my French colleague, Mrs Borne, whether there are plans for a total or partial phasing-out. She said that there was no question of that, that it had not been discussed, that they are awaiting a new CEO, that the strategy is the next step, and that further discussion will then take place. I don't have any information on that. If she tells me they're not doing that, I'm assuming they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u132	I understand that the Minister of Finance is about trading or selling those shares, which was news yesterday at once. But the question is: would it help you as Minister of IenW if we were to sell those shares today? How can it help? Or isn't it helping you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u133	What is extremely important to me is that it is ensured that the majority of KLM shares remain in Dutch hands.This has also been changed earlier today because that is linked to those landing rights. That's what we're up against from IenW. If we lost that, you'd risk a lot. If you lose the KLM in that way, you risk the hub function. We have also seen at other airports elsewhere in Europe, for example in Brussels, Zurich or Copenhagen, that you will not get the hub function back if you lose it. So I wouldn't put that at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u134	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u135	Enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u137	Then Mr Paternotte for his fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u138	Mr President, the question the Minister can or cannot answer was actually a point of order. The question I would like to ask the Minister is whether she can confirm that the governments-Balkenende I, II, III and IV have allocated dozens of percentage shares of KLM to administrative offices that guarantee that KLM has Dutch nationality, and that nothing would change the Dutch nationality of KLM if we also house that last 5.92% there. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u139	If, as a whole, they are housed in the same two administrative offices, then you will indeed, if I add it up neatly, hold 51%, and that interest will be secured. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you. I note, Mr Paternotte, that your third remark was indeed a point of order, but there was also a question attached to it. So I'm counting him as a question after all. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u141	Then, among other things, the VVD and the CDA also asked a question about the Gulf States, the competition and the way in which we dealt with it in the Transport Council last week. You are right that we would really like us to be able to intervene when there is a risk of distortion of competition or price dumping. That is exactly what the Netherlands has worked for. We didn't do that alone. We have done this together with not the least of them: France, Germany and a few other countries. However, we have not managed to achieve a majority in favour of this. At the last Transport Council, where this was the first item on the agenda in the morning, I expressed the view that we would very much have liked us to be able to act preventively and not afterwards, when it has been shown that it has caused damage. After all, you may be late. It is extremely unfortunate that we did not get a majority in favour of this. That does not alter the fact that we will continue to emphasise this and continue to work to achieve it in the future. I have not quite given up on the battle, because this is, of course, the position of the Council, but the European Parliament and the Commission are also taking part in the trilogues. In Parliament, the position is a little more focused on wanting to act preventively. So it's not completely lost yet. You know how this goes in a negotiation; if there is something to be moved somewhere else, we will advise the Austrian Presidency from the Dutch side to go along with Parliament in the sense that we can take preventive action. When we talk about it in the Council, you know how this is going in the negotiations, perhaps there will still have to be some movement. We will soon be advising the Austrian Presidency, on the part of the Netherlands, to go along with Parliament and take preventive action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u142	A warrior minister, that sounds like music to my ears. I do think that she should go a little wider than just the Middle East carriers. She knows I do, too. What point does it make in Europe with regard to Ryanair and the false self-employment of pilots? We know that question I also asked Mr Dijkstra, who was invaded by the Labour Inspectorate in Germany and Belgium. Those raids at Ryanair were not carried out by the judge, Mr Dijkstra, but by the labour inspectorate. There are abuses and they are being dealt with. Does the Minister also have this conversation in Europe with her German and Belgian colleagues and when does she intend to take action against Ryanair in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u143	We've changed this before. At the moment when the Inspection SZW sees reason to do so, anyone who has examples of it can register it, then our inspection will certainly not fail to raid it if it is necessary. You also know that European research is still under way. I'll wait for them, too. When general measures are needed, we will, of course, look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u144	Second question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u145	I do have an opening here, in the sense that I have been told very often in previous debates by the Minister that the data that the Tax Administration has on bogus self-employment is being taken into account and that often nothing comes out of it. That's not crazy, we think. But I hear the Minister say that anyone can report to the Labour Inspectorate that something is going on. If workers now report massively to the Labour Inspectorate, the Labour Inspectorate will take action. Is that the conclusion I can draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u146	Well, then it must be well-founded complaints; I must, of course, keep that battle for the arm. In previous debates I had with Mr Van Ark on the inspection SZW she has also always indicated that when serious signals come in, the Labour Inspectorate looks at them in a serious way and takes action if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u147	The Minister will continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u148	I think I'm actually a whole end, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna take a look at the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u149	In the meantime, there seems to be a question from Mrs Kröger. But she's waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u150	I'll take a look at her right away. Mrs Kröger has asked whether the present MoU offers sufficient security. Several members of your Chamber have requested some kind of reconfirmation of this. I think it is very good that we should now put our finger on the pulse and see what happens in the meantime which might lead to a breach of those agreements. Well, then, of course, I'll get right into action. If it's really about trying to formalize, then it takes a new CEO and the rest has returned. But in the meantime, of course, I am ensuring that the agreements we have in the memorandum of understanding are respected. Otherwise, I'll travel straight to Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u151	With a platinum card for the Thalys; that was good to hear. My question is another one. Does the Minister recognise the view that these strikes at Air France-KLM, but also the strikes at the KLM itself, should nevertheless be seen as part of a race to the bottom, a tough competition on price, thus also competing on terms of employment in order to reduce costs in aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u152	Mrs Kröger is of course right that this is an international, global competition. Price is a very important part of that, but that is not the only part. Of course, it's also about quality. KLM and Transavia, and Air France-KLM, have a good reputation there. I therefore believe that they are able to cope with international competition. But that does require that they are constantly alert and that they can move with the rest. That is why I refer you once again to the fact that, if there is illegal state aid anywhere and companies, whether they come from the Gulf region or from anywhere else in the world, that does not matter whether we compete unfairly in this way, we must be able to take action against it. I would like to do that in advance rather than if damage has already been detected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u153	But does the Minister also recognise the view that this is not only about unfair competition with state-supported Middle East carriers, but also low-cost carriers that reduce prices in other ways, e.g. through phony constructions? In fact, Air France-KLM is pushed on two sides, at certain distances by the Middle East carriers and at another level by the low-cost carriers. In between, these companies are trying to keep their heads above water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u154	If it has been shown that there really are false structures, then we must take immediate action against them. That is why I would like to know whether the European Commission's investigation really shows any evidence of this, because then we must take immediate action. I have just said this to Mr Laçin. The same applies to inspection services. That's what I just said. If they get serious signals, they have to investigate them seriously and look at them. But so far it hasn't turned out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u155	Mr Dijkstra, or Mr Van Dijk, I must say. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u156	Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u157	Right, Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u158	Oh, yeah. Was the minister all done, or was she still answering?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u159	Actually, I think I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u160	You're almost done? I do have a point. I am glad that you have just said that you want to make an effort to defend the interests of KLM and KLM employees and our national interest. In the previous debate we talked about the more than 30,000 families that are attached to it. I also welcome the fact that you are also indicating what you cannot achieve. I think you'll be honest about that, too, if you've had those conversations. You must not arouse the expectation that everything can be done. Our position is really limited. We therefore honour that effort, but you must also clearly state it if something fails and then return to the Chamber with it, and then we must accept it fairly with each other. I think that is an important observation. Please keep us informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u161	I'd really like to do that. I think it is very good that Mr Dijkstra would like to stress that our possibilities are not very great. It is a labour dispute in another country. I will, of course, convey the concerns with everything I have in my mind and, where they may not see it, underline what the consequences may be for the Netherlands and for all those families, as you rightly describe, but also for our economy and our locational environment and, therefore, for the European locational climate. I'm sure I'm gonna put that in the spotlight. But I don't really have a power or an instrument to say, and if you guys don't, there's gonna be something. It's really gonna have to come from arguments. I hope I can achieve something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u162	A very important one in this context is also the cash position. The strikes in France cost EUR 400 million, EUR 25 million a day. There's been another four-day strike announcement, so that's gonna be tough. I can imagine that the French within the holding company look very delicious at KLM's cash position. I hope that in the autumn we will not come to the conclusion that this cash position is not safe either and that it will soon be moving in order to satisfy anything. Those strikes just cost money. I therefore call on the Minister to pay full attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u163	Sure. So there are also agreements to keep that separate. I think that is one of the important agreements in which we must ensure that they are respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u164	If necessary, I have to make up all my interruptions, but this is very important. I asked about the legal anchoring. The minister said, "We can't do anything." Anything's possible. The government of one of the best trading countries worldwide can do anything. Diplomatic pressure, trade pressure: anything is possible. Everything. But I also said: make sure that the current president of KLM becomes the second CEO. I didn't get a reaction to that. I also asked: how much is the increase in the stock package? I need that for the budget. I need to know, because then I can table an amendment to that effect. I want to know where I can get the cover if I have to. I also asked about the growth of Schiphol. KLM is also in trouble because Schiphol is locked. We have had a debate on this, but nothing has been said about it, and that is a serious matter. So the Minister can do something about that. That's all outside the French baguettes. But I really want that done right now. This is yet another debate. Every time it's said, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do sister and we're gonna talk. But we're not buying anything for that. This really needs to be legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u165	I understand the desire to legally anchor it very well. I would very much like to do that. But I have just indicated to Mr Dijkstra that I have no power to enforce it. I will do my utmost to do so, and I think that will also apply to Mr Hoekstra and the entire cabinet, but I cannot give you the guarantee that this will work. You have to understand that, too. We are having a very careful debate about Schiphol. We spoke about this not so long ago. We are now awaiting the environmental impact assessment of Schiphol and we are awaiting advice from the Schiphol Environment Council. It concerns both the file living and flying, which has a certain impact, as well as the New Standards and Enforcement System Schiphol. So I think we should be careful there, too. I know that Mr Graus has a desire to grow very quickly to 800,000, but I am dealing in this same Chamber with, for example, Mr Van Raan, who is not here now, who wants to go back to 300,000. For the time being, I'm just sticking to the rules and agreements we've made with each other in this Chamber, and we're going to proceed with the process very carefully, very carefully, step by step. Mr Graus also asks: can you not arrange for Mr Elbers to become the new CEO? Excuse me, you say "the second man." I shouldn't put things in your mouth that don't add up. Yeah, of course I'd love that, too. Wherever I can promote him, I'm sure I will. But I'm not about that either, because that's what the board of Air France-KLM itself is about. So I can't do more than my best. With regard to your fourth question on how much it will cost, I really must refer you to the Minister of Finance. That's really specific in its field as a shareholder. You can then receive a written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u166	Then I suppose the Minister will arrange for us to have it. We are the aviation committee here, so that should end up here. I am on the Finance Committee, but I never have discussions with the Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u167	I must assure you that I will pass that question on to Mr Hoekstra so that he can respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you. Then we can gradually start funneling. We will also discuss this growth at the AO Schiphol. But it's also about the VVD suddenly wanting to grow to 590,000. That was my first request. 800,000 is the distant future, but I'm probably gonna get a majority if the VVD supports me to grow to 600,000 in the short term. That is why I am asking, because then I can retable my motion, which has just been rejected. I'll wait for that stock package. The second CEO is also an effort obligation. I'm not filing a motion for that. I know the Minister is committed to this. But about that first, as I say as all-, last, I have a motion ready. That motion concerns the legal anchoring of the five agreements made in 2004, which were reconfirmed on paper in 2015 in a MoU. They really need to be legally anchored. All the experts on the subject say that, apart from increasing the share package, that is the only thing we can do to save KLM somewhat. But if things really go wrong, there's no salvation at all. I would therefore like that to be confirmed, otherwise I will have to table my motion and the Chamber will have to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u169	Mr Graus can count on me to do my utmost, to ensure that this position is strengthened. However, none of my predecessors, including high-quality people, have succeeded in that either. So I don't have the illusion that I'm gonna be able to do that all of a sudden. So I want to do my utmost, but I can't give you a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u170	The coalition agreement clearly states the importance of Schiphol with a good and healthy home carrier. We've talked about flight movements and numbers before. I am not in favour of unbridled growth, as Mr Graus did, but I am not in favour of shrinking, like the Animal Party. I want careful growth. We'd like to make that negotiable. We have also agreed on the situation up to 2020. The Minister has confirmed it several times. But suppose KLM, or Air France-KLM, says: we have a new destination, for example somewhere in Asia or South America, but it can't. I would like that to be possible at Schiphol Airport to prevent them from moving to Paris or even saying: it can't be done at all anymore. Are we flexible in that? And would you like to inform us at the moment that that kind of question comes? And, given the importance that we attach to KLM, would you like to see whether there are opportunities to do it, possibly within the 500,000 or just with that little bit of flexibility that we're going to opt for at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u171	Mr Dijkstra has made quite a plea. You also mentioned the 326 direct destinations and their importance for the locational climate and for being a hub. We really need to guard that. But that will also require, for example, that we will be able to get to work at Lelystad Airport. We also need our selectivity policy in order to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u172	I say, after all, we don't give presents to an airline. No, we value the economic importance, because of that hub function and because of those jobs. I would point out that KLM does about half of all the movements at Schiphol Airport and with her partner it accounts for 68% of all travelers. So the importance is obvious. And when we see that aviation is under pressure, we must also be prepared to see where, within the agreements that exist, we can find solutions. If we keep doing that with each other, we'll come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u173	I can only agree that we need to look very carefully at this and that we certainly should not waste our interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u174	I hope the Minister does not go along with the logic of the VVD that the closing of the 500,000 should be completed. I do not really understand why the assumption here is that the growth of Schiphol is necessary for KLM. I should just like to quote it for a moment, because Mr Dijkstra had just not been ready: 'KLM benefits most from the scarcity and can thus make greater profits than competitors who fly less at airports with capacity constraints. After all, KLM has most slots at Schiphol Airport. With these profits, KLM can invest in quality, buy extra slots, expand at other airports and so on." So if there is an international race to the bottom in aviation, in which it is important that KLM holds a strong position, why is it suggested that growth is needed at Schiphol Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u175	There is still a need for more flying and more aviation. This is also important for the economy. I would remind you of what Mr Dijkstra or Mr Amhaouch has just said. If a destination falls somewhere and you go de-hubs, as it is called, which means that you get fewer and fewer destinations, it is ultimately also very bad for your economy. It's always about a total weighing down. You choose the most environmentally friendly scenario. Of course, there are certain advantages to this, but there may also be disadvantages. I think it is only when we can weigh up the environmental impact assessment and the advice of local residents in the Environment Council. And then I'm going back to the beginning of your question. Now I'm gonna let go of the 500,000? No, that's not the case. I'm just sticking to the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u176	Mrs Kröger's fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u177	I still think it's important to mark this. I support the fact that the Minister says that we must have all the information on the table from the environmental impact assessment and so on, and then have a careful discussion about the future of Schiphol. The reason we are here today is that it is also about the position of KLM as part of the future of Schiphol. Time and time again, too easy and actually fact-free is said: for the future of KLM, the growth of the number of flight movements at Schiphol Airport is needed. The studies that the Minister himself sent to the Chamber are a very different picture. So before we have a new debate here on the future of Schiphol, this really needs to be sorted out much better, and I ask the Minister to do so. What is really needed for KLM to stand in an overall race to the bottom in aviation, with both subsidised Middle East carriers and low-cost carriers? And what position can KLM take in this, without the obvious assumption that the growth of the number of flight movements is a solution? I don't think the studies say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u178	Mrs Kröger puts together a lot of assumptions here. She says: both with subsidised low-cost carriers and with mock constructions. Those are all things we're fighting and we want to fight. I also look at the people who are closest to it. Those are the people of KLM themselves, who say that they do need that growth. I also come to other places in the world. Not that long ago, I was allowed to be in India. There is a lot of interest to do a lot with the Netherlands, and to start using the Netherlands as a gateway to Europe when the UK is no longer after the Brexit. This offers opportunities, including for our economy. You have to consider whether you want to go for that or not. I think that is the political balance that we have to make with each other if, as you yourself say, we have all the facts on the table. There are also studies in which, in one case, more focus is on the economy and in the other case more on the environment or the environment. I think we should start weighing up all these interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u179	The Minister said she was almost done, so I would like to ask the answer to my questions on the competitiveness of KLM. You just said something about Air France-KLM. We need a new CEO first, then we need a new strategy and then a number of agreements can be anchored. But the discussion we are having today is about the importance of the 32,000 people who work there and the great contribution I mentioned in my contribution, of 10 billion to GDP. How are we going to run it together with KLM, or with the KLM as the leading company? What's the strategy? Will the Minister be taken into account? Otherwise, we will be standing here next time and not the cause of the strikes, but that KLM's competitive position is not good. There's been a lot of talk about growth, and I'd like to park it. We have put in the coalition agreement that sustainable growth must be achieved from 2021 onwards. That's where we're headed. What else is KLM doing? We know that the emergence of easyJet and Ryanair has surprised a lot of airlines, but what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u180	Let me start by saying that when it comes to collective bargaining and so on, I really do not want to do so. In the Netherlands, this is for employers and employees together to get out of it. When it comes to specific aspects of business operations, I do not interfere. If it is really about competitiveness, then of course we need to work together, we need to look at Schiphol and the competitiveness of our hub. If we can't get ahead of that, then KLM will also have the negative side. We work together in Europe, when it comes to how you deal with companies that come from outside the European Union. I think we should look at the overall picture. The same goes for what we are doing to reduce the nuisance. How can you take this into account in prices and offer aircraft, if they are quieter and cleaner, more opportunities? These are all aspects of this competitiveness that we need to monitor and, for example, so that we also want to catch up with the story of the flight tax at European level, or rather at international level, I would almost say, in order to ensure that we do not put our own home carrier KLM at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u181	Then the question is to put that into practice. How can the Chamber be informed? Are we going to see what the most important conditions are for the KLM? That is of national importance. It's not just a company you can say we're gonna put it at a distance, they're gonna figure it out, and if it goes wrong, we're gonna be back here. Can we, as the Chamber, understand what the framework conditions are for the KLM to take a new step, in order to strengthen its competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u182	I think we should certainly include this in the whole debate on Schiphol, because it is the most important resident, so to speak, of Schiphol. The competitive position of KLM will certainly have to play an important role in the assessment that we are going to make there. Which aspects we will have to take into account, we will have to assess this when we have the facts on the table; for example, if we also know where we stand with regard to Lelystad Airport. Can we really get rid of those 45,000 flights in the longer term? Can we put that selectivity policy into practice? This also offers KLM more opportunities to operate the mainport-related flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u183	Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u184	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u185	Oh, I thought there was a little point left, but if it wasn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u186	Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u187	I'll take a look at the room. There are no questions at the moment. I assume you need a second term. Looks like that's the case. Then the first speaker is Mr Graus of the PVV. He has a speaking time of one minute and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u188	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the agreements made between the Air France-KLM CE0 and the 2015 Cabinet are recorded in new legally anchored guarantees, including:]] [[no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines to the Air France-KLM holding company in Paris;]] [[no transfer of jobs from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters of Air France-KLM in Paris;]] [[maintaining independent financial management by KLM;]] [[the Dutch foundations SAK I and SAK II and the agreements extended in 2010 (read, State guarantees) between the Dutch State and Air France-KLM remain in place;]] [[growth loss Air France should not be at the expense of growth profitable KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u189	My final motion for a resolution, which is the adjustment for the coalition, reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Invites the government, by means of an effort obligation, to have the agreements made between the Air France-KLM CEO and the 2015 Cabinet laid down in new legally anchored guarantees, including:]] [[no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines to the Air France-KLM holding company in Paris;]] [[no transfer of jobs from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters of Air France-KLM in Paris;]] [[maintaining independent financial management by KLM;]] [[the Dutch foundations SAK I and SAK II and the agreements extended in 2010 (read, State guarantees) between the Dutch State and Air France-KLM remain in place;]] [[growth loss Air France should not be at the expense of growth profitable KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u190	It is therefore a reasonable motion and a weakened motion for the coalition. I always call that a kind of "Know of Barbie" move. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I want to say. If there is a parliamentary inquiry, those Members of Parliament who do not support one of these two motions will find themselves in a wet seam. Pay attention to my words!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u191	You've said that before. Thank you. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u192	Mr. Chairman. The devil is in the detail, they say. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2015 the cabinet agreed with the then CE0 of Air France-KLM on KLM's independent position within the Air France-KLM group;]] [[noting that these agreements included:]] [[no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines to the Air France-KLM holding company in Paris;]] [[no transfer of jobs from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters of Air France-KLM in Paris;]] [[maintaining independent financial management by KLM;]] [[the Dutch foundations SAK I and SAK II and the agreements extended in 2010 (read State guarantees) between the Dutch State and Air France-KLM remain in place;]] [[considers that it is appropriate to reconfirm these agreements;]] [[whereas a strong position of KLM within Air France-KLM is of great importance for the Dutch economy and the mainport function of Schiphol;]] [[whereas a new structural governance of Air France-KLM requires close monitoring of Dutch public interests;]] [[calls on the government to make maximum use of the Dutch public interests involved in KLM;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to discuss this matter with the Air France-KLM board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Graus, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u193	But I do think that motion is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u194	Yeah, but it's not gonna happen anyway. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mr Paternotte will table a motion, I think, on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u196	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u197	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the Minister is going to reconfirm agreements and wait for the new CEO. My question is whether the Minister can inform us what she will do if the strikes continue and there is still no new CEO in the middle of summer. Secondly, we heard the Minister about the agreements on the ceiling at Schiphol. We must take into account Mr Graus and Mr Van Raan. Mr Graus wants to flee 800,000 and Mr Van Raan wants to flee 300,000. The average of this is 550,000 flights. That is about what Mr Dijkstra wanted. My question to the Minister is to clarify the arrangements, because we hope that this cannot be the intention. Thirdly, I would like to point out to Mr Amhaouch. I really missed the substance of your criticism of my suggestion. In 2003, both the Dutch and French Governments agreed that the share packages in Air France and KLM would be phased out in equal proportions from three years after the merger. In the meantime, we can see that the French State is still the largest shareholder, with double voting rights at the shareholders' meeting. The director of Air France, Frank Terner, is an old chief of staff of Prime Minister Manuel Valls. Half the French board members come from politics. The total of this intertwinedness is undesirable, we say. France must keep its commitments, but so must we. The alienation of our shares has nothing to do with landing rights or treaties. We can also give the shares to Mr Graus or to Mr Amhaouch. Then they are housed in Limburg and the nationality remains the same. The same applies to administrative offices, which are also located in the Netherlands. I conclude that there is not yet one example in this whole debate of the usefulness of the 5.92% shares of KLM and when this has ever been proven. I hope to hear that again, of course, from the people who say that it is absolutely inconceivable that we should ever place them at an administration office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u198	I had given a very good answer to that last question, so I am not going to repeat it. I want something straightened out anyway. I asked if Schiphol could grow to 600,000 flight movements as soon as possible. The maximum capacity is 800,000 with the current job use. That's what I've always said, so for the future. But in the short term, I've always talked about 600,000. That must be very clear. Then that Lelystadling, that soap opera, wouldn't have been necessary. I do not know how many hundreds of thousands of people could have saved misery in other provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u199	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Mrs Kröger has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u200	I'm not allowed to respond to this interruption anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u201	I didn't actually hear a question. But if you want to respond, I'll give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u202	If we use Mr Graus's 600 000 resources with Mr Van Raan's 300 000, there will be an enormous shrinkage of Schiphol. That is not what we are proposing at the moment. Since this question is on the table so often, do we think it is right for the Minister to agree on the ceiling until when do they apply and what do they look like? Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent We are now in the process of reconfirming agreements. Then this might be nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u203	How does Mr Paternotte respond to the analysis that KLM is just the airline for which a ceiling at Schiphol Airport can be very beneficial?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u204	That's just the way you look at it. If KLM has a budget to grow quickly, a ceiling is of course not beneficial if you look at the company purely. Then they could start a lot of new routes that they can't start right now. On the other hand, you can see that the very rapid growth of Schiphol has not been very much in favour of KLM in recent years, because it is precisely other companies that have claimed the fastest slots. Not bought up, because that's not how it works in the Netherlands. So it only depends on what economic conditions you are in and what KLM's plans are. I am not sufficiently familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u205	Mrs Kröger has the floor for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions on my part. As I said before, as far as we are concerned, this is primarily a French labour dispute. We think it is important for the Minister to follow it closely. She also indicates that she does. I think it is important that we see discussions about this situation at Air France-KLM in the wider context of what is happening in aviation, namely the race to the bottom that is going on and which is at the expense of people, climate and people living around, but also of workers. There is a keen competition on working conditions. It plays in different places. We talked about the situation around Ryanair. We talked about the subsidised Middle East carriers. I think we should follow this discussion in this context. What I think is very important is that it is too easy to think that selling more and cheaper tickets would be a sustainable growth model for Air France-KLM. That is absolutely not the case. I do not actually see any evidence of the suggestion that quantitative growth at Schiphol Airport is necessary to make Air France-KLM a strong company, other than a lot of people who believe in a business model of more, more and cheaper, cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u207	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I call Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u208	Mr. Chairman. That way you don't have a motion, and that way you have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Emirates wants to open a third frequency on the route Amsterdam-Dubai, where KLM is also active;]] [[noting that it adds substantial additional capacity to this route;]] [[noting that the aviation agreement of the Netherlands with the United Arab Emirates states that there should be no price dumping and disproportionate injury to KLM;]] [[calls on the Government to closely monitor traffic and transport development in the aviation market between Amsterdam and Dubai and, if necessary, to intervene if it appears that the agreements of the aviation agreement between the Netherlands and the United Arab Emirates are infringed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-486]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u209	I hear the motion and I do not know exactly the content of the aviation agreement, but I believe that it means that Dutch carriers can fly to Dubai and companies from the UAE in Amsterdam. Etihad and Emirates do the same. I do not understand exactly what this motion is about. Monitoring the aviation market, while in itself it's just possible that Emirates, if that availability is there, will use a lock? What does Mr Amhaouch expect the Minister to do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u210	In our input, we pointed out, and the Minister has also confirmed, that there was no majority in the Transport Council to criticise unfair competition. That does not happen until after the damage has been done. This motion underlines the importance of strict compliance with the agreements between the Netherlands and the Arab Emirates. If that does not happen, we call for enforcement. I assume that Mr Paternotte is also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u211	Mr Paternotte is very much in favour of strict compliance with agreements, but you probably agree with me that this means that Emirates can simply fly to Amsterdam in accordance with the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u212	According to the terms of the agreement, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u213	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u214	No, Mr. Chairman. I just had to do a little peer service, and I'll do it nicely. KLM isn't a daughter that you just put to your hand. For example, the NRC headlined in January 2015. That was actually what the discussion was about today. Did we confirm everything correctly? My colleague Martijn van Helvert has already tabled some motions to strengthen KLM's position. We have a number of resources. We shouldn't pretend we don't have anything. We have the politics; the minister is here. We also have the prime minister if it really has to be a chefsache. We have the SAK I and SAK II foundations, which fortunately after today still contains 50.1% of shares. And of course, we're sitting in the differences in driving Air France-KLM. Eventually there is also the judge and the Corporate Chamber for shareholders who disagree with something. We stress that the Minister has promised that she will be very strictly on top of it. It takes every opportunity to underline the agreements at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u215	Thank you. I call Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment to take action together with SZW's colleague if there are any reports to the Labour Inspectorate. I'll take that commitment with me. Once again, strike is a good right for workers. I think that the situation in France should be dealt with in this context in particular. We must be wary of making statements. I hope that they will come out quickly and that the Minister will do her best to reconfirm KLM's position as soon as possible. If we can anchor those agreements, we are sure that KLM can maintain the independent position within the holding company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u217	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I propose that we suspend until 5.30 p.m. and then listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u218	I would ask Members to take their seats again because we can start again. The Minister has the floor to answer the questions and to respond to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a clear number of motions and also a clear number of questions. Mr Paternotte actually asked a bit about the familiar road, but he wanted to hear the number of flights confirmed at Schiphol Airport once again, namely that there are 500,000 until 2020 and that we will then talk about growth in a fifty-fifty distribution. I told you a moment ago exactly how we are going to do that. We need the E.R.-Schiphol for this and the advice of the Schiphol Environment Council, but I think he would like to hear that figure of 500,000 again. That is what I have confirmed. Mrs Kröger suggested at some point that the growth of KLM at Schiphol should not be just about quantity. I think it is good that we can see that KLM itself is also committed to quality. I also liked to see that both from the side of Schiphol and KLM a plea was made to catch the train for the shorter distances. I think they are setting a very good example in this respect by not just being blind with more, more, more flies. The best option is for which distance flying is the best option. I therefore believe that there are very good developments in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u220	My comment was that several room members suggest that quantitative growth in flight movements is the only way for KLM to stay strong. They do so, even though, for example, the SMEA suggests that this is not the case at all because KLM has built up so many historical rights and that there are advantages for KLM on a ceiling. So once again, my suggestion to the Minister: include this important aspect in the studies and further planning of the future of Schiphol and do not just go along with the idea that quantitative growth is the only option for KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u221	I think we agree that not only quantity but also quality is very important. But the quantity is of course always an important criterion for a company, because you can or can't handle it well. I think it is important that we all weigh up the qualitative and the quantitative elements. Then I'll get to the motions, Mr. Chairman. The motions on the documents Nos. 483, 484 and 485 are a bit the same. If I can put them together and choose, then I would like to discourage the first two motions and give Chamber judgment on the motion in part No. 485. They are a bit nuance differences, but I am going for the third motion for the simple reason that it seems more realistic to me and has a little more flexibility in it. This motion does not send me on a mission impossible, because it asks me to do everything in my power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u222	This motion is also the third best, as it is called in English. Aviation experts, financial-economic people, people within KLM and even Mr De Boer of VNO-NCW say that the crux is the legal anchor. It is all very nice and I have also supported this motion because we support it as a group, but it is actually a bit of lead for old iron, because it says what has been happening and is promised for years. It's nice for the stage, but legal anchoring is really necessary if we really want to be able to do something for KLM. I would have liked to have had a reaction to it, because it is not possible for all these experts to say: legal anchoring, increasing the stock package and so on. I've said it all and then it can't be that it's being pushed away again, can it? I now submit this motion for the umpteenth time after eight years, and there is a parliamentary inquiry waiting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u223	You have said it before, but perhaps the Minister still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u224	There's no way I'm gonna shoot this away. I fully understand the need of Mr Graus and also why he is proposing this. Again, I will do my utmost. If I see possibilities, if it would be feasible to legally anchor this, then of course I will not fail to do so. That's the way it is. At first, I'm going to do my best and see what's feasible. I like that very much in the third motion. That's why I can give that judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u225	You'd like to comment further, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u226	Yeah, also because I filed two motions. My second motion concerns the obligation to do so. It was asked by the coalition, and then I don't get it. That is what Mr Hoekstra promised me. I expressly included this commitment in the second motion. I don't understand why that motion is being dissuaded, because I really made it as a second best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u227	Mr President, I do not want to end up in a semantic discussion about the precise meaning of words. Mr. Graus' signature is also under the third motion. I'm very good with that. I would like to leave it at that and propose that we simply vote in favour of this motion. The motion in part No. 486 by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Dijkstra note that the government will closely monitor transport and traffic development between Amsterdam and Dubai and, if necessary, intervene when the aviation treaty is violated. I can make a judgment call on that, Room. If we don't monitor it, you won't be able to intervene in time. I'd like to follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u228	I do not quite understand what the Minister can do with this motion. Should I understand from this that they do not monitor other aviation conventions and the extent to which they are or are not violated? Does she need motions from the Chamber to monitor them? 'Cause I'd be worried. That's question one. Then question two. I've had a look at the aviation agreement. It says there's no limitation on frequency. Suppose Emirates will fly a third plane to Amsterdam, what will the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u229	The Treaty states that there should be no price dumping and disproportionate injury. We'll keep an eye on that. Are we just doing that there? No, we're not. I do not see any objection to looking specifically at it when the Chamber asks for it now that there is a new application.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u230	Finally, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u231	If Emirates is going to fly to Schiphol with a third frequency, what's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u232	See if that doesn't go against the agreements, whether they're not gonna do it with dumping prices and so on. I will check whether they comply with the terms of the treaty, no more and no less. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u233	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-14-tweedekamer-11.u234	I would like to thank Members for their input and the Minister for their reply. The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. Then we'll move on to a VAO.
