ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u1	I hope everyone had a nice lunch. Perhaps the Minister also ate a bite between preparing his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u2	At least I'm giving him the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr President, thank you. It must always be possible to deal with abuses in the care sector. The Disciplinary Law of the BIG Act is an important tool in this regard. That's what we heard this morning. Disciplinary law applies to the eight BIG registry professions, including doctors, dentists and nurses. It helps to protect the patient from abuses done by these professionals. The bill that we are discussing today mainly regulates improvements in disciplinary law. In this way, we can better protect the patient by tackling better with the change that exists in healthcare providers who are not functioning properly and which pose a risk to the quality and safety of care. For example, the inspection will be given the possibility to disable the health care provider directly pending the judgment of the disciplinary judge. That is the burden of immediate abstinence from professional activities, the LOB. This burden is designed in such a way that there is adequate legal protection for the professional. The disciplinary judge will also be given the opportunity to prohibit a health care professional from working with all patients. That is the total prohibition of disciplinary action. There are also measures to make the disciplinary procedure more efficient. The patient can be supported in future in the process of filing a disciplinary complaint by the disciplinary officer. Furthermore, the draft law contains some improvements in criminal law, improves the recognition of healthcare providers as BIG registered and clarifies the scope of the reserved acts. Mr. Chairman. I will not go into all the elements of the legislative proposal here, but I would like to touch very briefly on some of the important points before I come to the answer to the questions. Disciplinary law applies to BIG-registered healthcare providers. The bill clarifies that disciplinary law may also apply to serious offences committed in the private sphere, such as sexual offences. This bill will provide better protection for vulnerable patients in future. As a result of the provision that disciplinary law also applies during a suspension, the inspection may in future initiate a disciplinary action against a suspended healthcare professional who acts in breach of the suspension or disciplinary law. Sounds like a good stick behind the door. The second evaluation of the BIG Act found that an average of 1,600 disciplinary complaints per year was based on 15%. The legislative proposal contains a number of measures to address this issue. Advice to the patient as a complainant by the disciplinary officer aims to ensure that well-arranged complaints end up with the disciplinary judge, i.e. the complaints that belong there. A low-threshold Registry Law of €50 encourages the complainant to make a proper balance, so that complaints end up with the disciplinary judge who belongs there. The Registry law shall be refunded if the complaint is well founded. Through the President's decision, the President can simply dismiss manifestly unfounded complaints. That prevents treatment in the council room throughout the college and therefore saves a lot of work. The bill clarifies that also reserved acts for a cosmetic purpose are covered by the BIG Act. As a result, there can be no misunderstanding that reserved actions with a cosmetic purpose, such as the injection of fillers, should only be carried out by competent and competent professionals. In order to facilitate the verification and search of a professional's competence in the BIG register, it is required that BIG registered persons enter their registration number. Mr. Chairman. These are a number of elements of the bill, all of which were discussed this morning. I would like to try to answer the many questions that have been asked and start with the questions that have been asked by Mr Hijink. The first question is how we can prevent abuses, such as those with the breast doctor Rock G. in a private clinic. The main line is that the inspection through the BIG Act supervises the BIG-registered. If the inspection is notified of damage or of a significant risk of damage, the notification can be dealt with immediately. Measures may then be taken after examination. That is the main line of the process at present. To what extent does the BIG Act contribute to preventing serious abuses? That is what Mr Hijink asked. The restrictions on jurisdiction can prevent serious abuses for the future. This bill provides for the possibility that both the disciplinary court and the criminal court may prohibit a health care professional from working with patients in the extreme. In the case of serious offences, the LOB will also allow the health care provider to be directly inactive. Employers and professional organisations also have an important role to play in preventing serious abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u4	One of my questions was about groups of people who are not BIG-registered but who are making a big mistake. You mentioned that natural healer who injects IVs that he's not allowed to insert at all. The latest news is he's opening another clinic in Brabant by now. So the question is: how is this law or any other law going to prevent this kind of thing, where people are not BIG-registered, but they are doing actions that they are absolutely not competent to do? What can the Minister say to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u5	The proposal before us is about the BIG-registered, and not about non-registered, of which Mr Hijink gives an example. I'll come back to that later. First of all, I would like to concentrate on the legislative proposal and the questions that are attached to it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink asked how the Hague breast doctor could start a private clinic. Professional practice is in principle free in the Netherlands. There will never be any error in the case of qualified professionals either. Therefore, the BIG Act imposes strict requirements on registration in the registers. The Wkkgz, another law, sets requirements to guarantee the quality of institutions. If the requirements are not met, the inspection may take place, for example by issuing an order or an indication. This also applies to self-employed professionals. A disciplinary procedure may also be initiated against professionals. In very serious cases, an LOB may be imposed on them. Then Mr. Hijink specifically asked about private clinics. At the Chamber is now the bill Wtza, the Act of Accession healthcare providers. I suggest that when we discuss that bill, we address specifically the situation in private clinics. A further question from Mr Hijink was: to what extent can you place responsibility on the patient for the fact that the healthcare professional is sufficiently competent and competent? The patient can search the public BIG register to see if a healthcare professional is competent. The register shall indicate whether a professional is subject to a disciplinary measure or a restrictive measure. This information shall remain publicly available for the duration of the measure plus five years. Strikeouts shall be public for 10 years. In addition, information on the quality of healthcare providers is available online. It is therefore not the case that the responsibility lies with the patient. But especially when it comes to your own body, I can imagine you taking an active role as a patient and looking into such a BIG registry yourself. You really have to do that to have a look at the BIG-registered. Actually, I think that's a good job too. But I do acknowledge that you can't shift responsibility, of course. That is why we also have an inspection that is taking place. But it's one thing at a time. Then there is Mr Hijink's next question. There are more tasks for inspection. Are they equipped for that bigger role? That's what we're gonna see for the next year. We think we have sufficient capacity available at the inspection, but of course you don't know that for sure. We have therefore agreed with the inspection that one year after the entry into force we will look at the consequences and, therefore, at the capacity available at the inspection. What does the amendment to the law that is before the group of caregivers dealing with cosmetic activities mean today? In practice, there was uncertainty as to the scope of the scheme's reserved actions. Therefore, this bill explicitly states that the reserved acts of the BIG Act are reserved to competent persons under the BIG Act, regardless of the purpose with which they are carried out. Injecting for a cosmetic purpose is therefore also covered by the prohibition for non-competent persons. The use of botox, for example, by people who are not qualified, which is now in practice, is prohibited under the law. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you another question. I've got a whole pile left. Why is a registry fee introduced? Elsewhere, we remove the thresholds. Shouldn't that be happening here, too? A large part of the debate before lunch was about this. With the bill we want to join the disciplinary law for the legal professions. Attorneys have been subject to a registry right since 1 January 2015. This also applies to notaries and bailiffs since 1 January 2018. I am of the opinion that the Registry law encourages the complainant to weigh up a disciplinary complaint or to make use of other possibilities. This would avoid unnecessary burdening disciplinary courts with minor complaints that could be dealt with more quickly and better elsewhere, for example through complaint law. In doing so, they can deal with the heavier complaints for which disciplinary law is intended. This seems to me to be in the interest of a properly functioning right of disciplinary action. I should also like to point out that the introduction of the Registry Law leads to a threshold, but that the Registry Law is paid back to the complainant in the event of well-founded complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u6	The problem with Registry law is, of course, that it is not just about the gravity of the complaint, but that it raises a threshold, even before the complaint is lodged. People see: hey, I have to pay before I can file a complaint with the disciplinary board. That is a threshold, a financial threshold, especially in the care sector, for chronically ill people and people with disabilities, who are often already in financial difficulties in any case. This raises a threshold for those people. There is a fundamental problem in this, because you do not want people who cannot afford it to be able to live up to their rights. That is, of course, the fundamental point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u7	I understand very well that Mr Hijink is bringing this forward. I think he should also look at this proposal together with the disciplinary officer. This is the idea at first instance of five of those disciplinary officers in service with the government. They help, as a guide, to see how a disciplinary procedure should be set up. Then it will also be examined whether this disciplinary procedure is the right way to deal with the right complaint or whether the complaint may have to be dealt with by another route. With these two things combined, I think you can very well defend that the law should remain in the law, so that we can ensure that the system is only used for complaints that have good cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u8	In my view, the Minister's own reasoning is that the arrival of these disciplinary officers is also an important tool. That is why we are very much in favour of helping people with: what am I supposed to do with my complaint, should I perhaps raise it in a different way and perhaps do not have to use disciplinary law at all? This has actually taken an important step towards preventing too many unnecessary complaints, but then you no longer need that right of registry. That sounds like the crux to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u9	Well, there is our difference of opinion: you say 'one thing or another' and I say 'one thing or another'. I find that combination attractive, on the one hand, offering guidance to the patient who wants to complain. You say it's one or the other. It seems to me that the best way is to help on the one hand and on the other hand, although I have to admit that setting up a Registry Law is not directly helping but arranging things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u10	We have also asked questions about the administrative burden relating to those registry fees. We all know that we want less administrative burdens. For €50, which is a reasonably manageable amount, such a circus is rigged: you have to register, register, enter, collect and perhaps refund. Should we want to do that in a branch of sport where everyone complains about administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u11	I couldn't agree more. There is a lot of complaints in the sector about regulatory pressure, and on good grounds. If we introduce this right of registry, we must therefore do so in the lightest administrative form possible. I would like to say this in the direction of Mrs Agema, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u12	We all know that administration is administration. So you either have to do it or you don't. With 2,200 cases, you can only get a ton of revenue. So that's not gonna cover what it costs to hire people to keep records.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, it's not about costs and revenues. It's about setting a threshold. We think this is a useful threshold. I just let you know what the number of well-founded complaints in 2016 was. That's just a percentage. Once again, together with the disciplinary officers, I think this is a useful and useful instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u14	The Minister is actually talking about a two-stage rocket: the disciplinary officer and the court of registry, but I think there is a third stage in it, namely the President's decision, which makes it possible for the President to close a complaint which is manifestly unfounded and quickly. Then how does the Minister view that? Are there not too many thresholds in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u15	No. It is all aimed at the careful handling of complaints that have a certain heaviness. And if that is to be done by the disciplinary college, then the capacity must also be available for that. However, the installation of a "sieve" with such a sieve, with a chairman's decision, with a disciplinary complaint officer, with a registry right, helps all to keep the order orderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u16	I understand that, but in my view the issue is correct: isn't that right of registry too much a threshold, especially if the President already has the possibility of removing complaints that are too lightly filed in a simple way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u17	I don't think that's too much. That is why there is precisely that combination of different forms of a sieve. This should lead to only the good things ending up in the disciplinary board. Mr Hijink asked if the Minister could respond to the question of prescribing Recipe-only medicines. The prescription of Recipe-only medicines is reserved for a limited number of BIG-registered professionals, namely doctors, dentists, nurses and a few more categories. Other doctors are often restricted, depending on expertise and training. These have been appointed by law. Mr Hijink also asked what is the difference between the LOB to be introduced and the complaints procedure as we already know it. The LOB will be a new instrument for inspection. In order to prevent a professional from continuing to work in dangerous cases, the inspector may immediately deactivate the professional. The LOB is thus somewhat different from the complaint procedure and the instruments that the inspection further has at its disposal. With the LOB, the inspection can put both BIG registered soloists and BIG registered in an institution, which meet the legal criteria, but pose a danger to individuals, directly on non-active alert pending the judgment of the disciplinary judge. The LOB is intended for cases where there appears to be no possibility of recovery. Here you can think of the Rock G. situations, in which there seems to be no possibility of recovery. If there is a prospect, the inspection will impose an order or an indication on the basis of the Wkkgz. You can then think of clues in the vein of: hygiene should be better, or education should be better. There's the difference. Mr Hijink asked what would happen if the complaint to the disciplinary judge was dismissed as unfounded. Will the caregiver be compensated? If the professional disagrees with the imposition of the LOB, he must go to the administrative judge. If he's successful there, he can also claim compensation there. That is the route to be followed if the healthcare provider wants to be compensated for the LOB. I'm gonna come up with the non-disclosure contracts. It was asked whether I could indicate the state of play with regard to the non-binding contracts. Are these still there? Yes. Silence contracts are unacceptable if they are in breach of health legislation or the proper functioning of the healthcare system. If the inspection is aware of such contracts, it shall use its powers to act against the healthcare provider. So far, so good about the policy story. But I cannot mention numbers here, because that is, of course, a bit at the heart of non-binding contracts. So I do not have any quantitative information to show whether and, if so, how many non-binding contracts there are. Shut-up contracts are, of course, next to confidential contracts. You are all aware that in civil law many forms of confidential contracts are possible. I wanted to remind you of those non-disclosure contracts. I see the difference between a confidential contract and a non-disclosure contract. In the case of a silent contract, there is a conflict with the concept of good governance, as used in the Wkkgz. It was asked whether the proposed measures in disciplinary law, i.e. the LOB, could prevent the Minister from taking less action in criminal law. Well, no, I don't think the Minister can. The effect may be that less is taken into account in criminal law, but that is not the aim. Disciplinary law aims to promote the quality of care. It's not punitive, like criminal law. It is also possible that disciplinary and criminal proceedings may run side by side. Mr Hijink had another question: can the Minister clarify how many non-BIG-registered caregivers carry out cosmetic activities? No, I don't have any numbers on this either, because many cosmetic acts aren't reserved. The cosmetic sector is a broad sector, ranging from beauty specialists and skin therapists to dermatologists and plastic surgeons. So I don't have that total review. Then there's the explanation of the behavior. Who's that for? According to the Wkkgz, the Vog is mandatory for new employees in the Long-Term Care Act and in the inpatient mental health care covered by the Health Insurance Act, including BIG registered. In addition, healthcare providers can also ask other employees for a vog, including from BIG registered employees. In my opinion, this was the pile that goes with Mr Hijink's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u18	I have another question about that statement about the behavior. It is of course quite complicated to explain that someone who cannot work in a nursing home because he cannot get an explanation about the behaviour, can then work in home care with vulnerable people at home, with whom you can often go through the house alone. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u19	To be honest, I have not been able to get enough depth on this issue. I have now concentrated on this bill and not on the scope of applying for a vog. If I am right, there would now also be the possibility for other parties to apply for a vog in home care. But I am not sufficiently aware of how many cases that actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u20	That's right. Municipalities can indeed ask for it if organisations sign up for a tender. Then the municipality can ask all employees to be able to present a vog. It's just that you don't have to. It is strange, of course, that in one place where you work with vulnerable people you have to have an explanation, while in other places where situations of abuse or theft can occur, you can do so. I would like the Minister to take a more specific look at this. We shall, if necessary, table a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u21	Then I'll wait for that motion at my ease. Mr Hijink has also tabled an amendment. If I have to give an appreciation of that, I would advise against that amendment. Then I come to the questions raised by Mr De Lange of the VVD Group. What is the role and commitment of the new disciplinary officer? The disciplinary officer advises the complainant on the formulation of a complaint. He is not given specific powers, but ensures that a patient's complaint is better formulated and substantiated. The disciplinary officer shall provide support when the complainant so requests. He's not coming to the hearing. Also, the disciplinary officer does not exchange information with other bodies such as the Dutch National Reporting Point. The difference is that the National Healthcare Reporting Point provides general information and that the Disciplinary Complaint Officer specifically advises on an individual case. Have we made a profile for the D.A.'s office yet? No, we're still working on that. Where does he enlist? At the Ministry. How many people will it be? We are thinking of a capacity of 5 fte. Mr De Lange asks me whether I agree that it is useful if all the health information comes on one website. He asked me if I would be willing to sit down with all the parties involved. We regularly discuss this issue of pooling and sometimes standardising information. The issue of standardising information was also discussed in the VAO we had before. We are indeed looking at whether we can make information more uniform, interconnectable or comparable. Yes, I see an active role for myself in that. Mr De Lange asked whether the BIG registration could not be simpler. He talked about six, seven-week lead times in busy months. Those are the months in which a lot of people graduate. That's the period from August to October. In the rest of the year, the average lead time is just over three weeks. I'd like to go with the registrar of service that's the CIBG......................................................................................................................................................... Of course, the quality should not be affected, but the subject " hurry up, we need the hands in care" I make mine. Does the Minister agree that complainants should be supported in the course of the disciplinary proceedings? Yes, disciplinary law is about the proper disciplinary complaint against the right professional, and that it is also well substantiated. In preparing a complainant's complaint, a complainant is lagging behind in the knowledge of the complainant in terms of content and care organisation. That doesn't help the disciplinary process. That's the reason to introduce a disciplinary officer. In this way, complainants are supported to file a complaint with the Disciplinary Court. Then cosmetic treatments. Will the Minister include new methods of treatment, such as plasma treatments, as a reserved act in the BIG II bill to be presented here? Specifically about plasma and ultrasound, RIVM stated in its latest report that there is no reason to include these treatments as a reserved act. It has been said that the inspection receives little information about such treatments. Reports that the inspection receives more often are about laser and in some other cases about treatments with IPL, intense pulsed light. With regard to these new techniques, I will ask the inspection to redirect any signals to my department. I will see if action is needed from our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u22	The main demand was for technology to move forward. We are now in a situation where we always have to lay down in legislation what type of equipment could or could not be. But there is a very simple basic rule: if it penetrates the skin and such a device really changes something in the skin structure, it would actually fall under a reserved act. That's what RIVM said. This is the case with IPL and laser. In order to avoid legislative changes every time, could you not come up with a general definition to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u23	I don't know if that's possible, but I see exactly your desire not to make a list per technique or treatment but to give a description. I'll make mine, too. Let me see if we can come to such a definition in the preparation of the BIG II Act. I would like to present it to you and see if it can be accepted. Then the language requirement: is it respected? The Wkkgz includes that all healthcare providers must offer good and safe care. This duty of care also means that healthcare providers must master the Dutch language sufficiently to be able to communicate with patients and colleagues. The inspection may address this obligation to healthcare providers. That has happened in the past. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, these are the questions that belong to the VVD Group. I come to the questions raised by Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. She started her speech with a reference to the Adrienne Cullen lecture, which took place last Friday at the Utrecht Medical Center. There was a medical error and initially too little attention from the UMC Board. This has now been corrected by means of a, what is called, transparent approach, with more attention paid to this medical failure, with the aim of enabling professionals to learn from each other. Such initiatives from the field are very important. Mrs Ellemeet has asked how you could promote them. I had the pleasure of attending the so-called Patient Safety Summit in Tokyo last week. There it has been proposed to organise an annual Patient Safety Day. An initiative such as the Adrienne Cullen-lecture fits in very well with that. I also mentioned that example on that Summit. I've read about it and I've also been in contact with UMC Utrecht. I understand that it was a very special afternoon, not only for Adrienne Cullen but also for the doctor in question who caused the medical failure and experienced the hardest hours of his career but had the nerve to stand there fish-a-fish with Mrs Cullen. It seems to have been a very special afternoon. Having regard to such initiatives, such as a Patient Safety Day, and also to this side of the coin, seems to me to be a good idea. The question is whether the independent customer supporter can play a role as a disciplinary officer. I have already said that I think that the disciplinary officer should join the ministry. That's different from being an independent client supporter. They both exist. One is often organised on an office and the other will be in the service of the department. Is that necessary in principle? Well, I didn't, but I didn't know where else to put him. So that's why it's gonna be an official.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u24	My question was more specific about the disciplinary officer's focus on supporting the factual side of the complaint. Often filing such a complaint is an emotional matter. Who exactly can provide this emotional guidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u25	I don't have a professional in mind for that. Mrs Ellemeet certainly limits the role of the disciplinary officer. I see it as a signpost, as someone who helps to see if it should become a disciplinary procedure. I do not know whether the emotional side of the matter can be cut entirely with scissors, but I do not have a direct answer to who can best assume that role, other than perhaps people in the private sphere could.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u26	My question was therefore whether this could not be a task for the customer supporter. I haven't heard an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u27	I don't know exactly who the client supporter is. So I could imagine it, but it's a bit of a blow in the air because I don't know exactly what's going on with the client supporter. I'm concentrating on the disciplinary officer, because that's part of the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u28	For the sake of clarity, I would like to say the following. Every patient has the right to independent customer support. That was what I was thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u29	Then I should first understand myself with that profession before I make a ruling on it. Mrs Ellemeet also asked me what I think about the possibility of disclosure of reprimands and not an obligation. In the context of the measures we are discussing this afternoon, I would like to make the following point. The lightest measure is a warning, the heaviest measure is a removal and between it are the reprimand, the fine and the suspension. A warning shall not be made public. That's a choice that's already been made. That's how the system works right now. It will be made public from a reprimand. These are also the messages you can read on a site or in the newspaper. There is then a very brief explanation. Then why was someone reprimanded? For example, due to poor file formation. That's a motivation. I believe that we should keep that method intact, so we should not change it. Mrs van den Berg has, of course, also raised questions on this point. I think we should cut the warning: not publicly. A conscious choice has also been made for this. Then the conversation can take place with the professional: you get a warning this time, next time it is a heavier measure. So from the reprimand or the fine or the suspension or the removal, make public with a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u30	I have one more question about that. The colleague of D66 also explained the possible consequences of the publication of a reprimand. My question is about proportionality when it is proportionate to make a reprimand public and when not, also given consequences in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u31	We are talking about reprehensible behavior and about the extent to which this reprehensible behavior has occurred. If the judgment follows that a warning can be enough and that confidentiality can then be given, I think that is a good choice. I fully acknowledge that you could also put that cut somewhere else, i.e. at the reprimand or at the fine. You can put it anywhere. But the choice has been made not to make it public in the event of a warning. In the case of heavier forms of malpractice, the decision shall be made public. I think that's a good choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u32	The Minister says the choice has been made. He'll say at the end: I think that's a good choice. That was what I wanted to hear, because otherwise it would seem to be happening outside the minister's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u33	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u34	The Minister is Minister. He should defend those choices. It is clear from practice that the effects of revealing a reprimand are sometimes so far-reaching that you may wonder whether that is proportionate. That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u35	In a different way, this is about who we put closest to us. Are we putting the patient closest to us or putting the professional closest to us? I believe that the D66 representative has just spoken about the fact that some people, as a result of disclosure, stop exercising their profession. It's a lot of people over 60. So the question is whether there really is a causal link between one and the other. But this is about making the choice. This choice has been made. That is the choice in which I would not wish to make any changes either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u36	I very much agree with the Minister that openness and transparency are extremely important and that you should not choose not to publish certain items. The question is, how do you publish it? We have also seen the examples of the very short ads that state what measure has been taken, namely that someone has had a reprimand, but it is completely unclear to the patient what the importance of this is for him or her. Then it is completely unclear whether this is a good doctor or a bad doctor and whether an explanation in that publication should perhaps be much clearer. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u37	Yeah, I think that's a good point. I haven't gone through a whole bunch of those ads yet, but we want to be close to the patient, I think the core of the BIG Act. You make a choice, besides who, to whom you want to be closest, although I also recognise the very important importance of transparency and of professionals whom I would like them to be open about their actions. We all make mistakes sometimes, and so is the professional. But indeed, from the slogan "Arts A has been reprimanded for poor file formation," you can't get that much. So I'd like to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u38	Following on from what previous colleagues have said, the word 'proportionality' has already been mentioned. Doesn't the Minister think that this could be left to a disciplinary board? And then what Mr Hijink says: when it is published, a little more context must be given so that everyone can understand at first sight what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u39	The answer to Mrs van den Berg's first question is negative. I do not think that the disciplinary board should judge whether anything is made public. That's a choice that's been made. I want to stick to that, so don't make it public at the time of the warning and always make it public in the other cases. I prefer to keep that situation intact. What Mr Hijink asked for, namely to give a little more context, is an issue which I would like to address, because I think it benefits the patient without having to be a major disadvantage to the professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u40	That point is profit. It's a good thing the minister says he wants to see if we can expand that information for the patient. Perhaps this will also have a good effect on the professional, because it will clarify the nature of the accusation that he or she has been made. That raises the question of how to see it now. Perhaps the Minister cannot answer all of this, but let me take his own example of insufficient file formation. Does it say "insufficient file-making" or "insufficient care" in such a message, and does it also include the possibility that there may be insufficient file-making? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u41	The terms used are as follows: a reprimand by doctor A due to poor file formation or insufficient file formation. C'est ça. When it comes to updating patients, maybe that's a little too brief information. I would like to look into this subject, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u42	To get it right, I understand that the Minister wants to look both at the categories and at the possible explanations that are attached to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u43	No. I want to look at what is being made public and I want to make the brief explanation given better and more transparent for the benefit of the patient and patient safety. I would like to look at that issue. That is a bit general, but I cannot say otherwise, because I do not know exactly what reasoning there has been in the past to keep these sentences so short and concise without creating a relationship for me with the patient and patient safety. Mr President, one more question. How can the disciplinary officer be found right? In the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, I say that we will advertise through the National Health Service. Also from the Ministry we will announce the existence of the disciplinary officials. Who decides whether the complaint to the Disciplinary Board is actually relevant? If a complaint is relevant, is there no need to pay a Registry fee? Any disciplinary complaint may be submitted to the Disciplinary Board. Before a disciplinary complaint is dealt with, Registry law must be paid. The Disciplinary Board ultimately determines whether a complaint is admissible and well founded. If a complaint is admissible, the Disciplinary Board then determines whether the complaint is well founded or not. In order to justify a complaint, there must be conduct contrary to statutory disciplinary standards. There is the existing disciplinary standard of good care provision. That's disciplinary standard one. As a result of BIG II, we now add "what is appropriate." Those are the two statutory disciplinary standards. If the complaint is finally found to be well founded, the complainant shall be given the right of registry. That is what I wanted to say to Mrs Ellemeet. Then there are the questions asked by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. Where can the Dutch Association of Dietists mention that the title of dietician is wrongly used? In the direction of Mrs Van den Berg, I say that we should go to the inspection. He's watching this. It is prohibited to carry out evidence of formal qualifications such as dietician if the appropriate training has not been followed. Dietist is a protected evidence of formal qualifications under the BIG Act. Next question. In view of the introduction of the LOB, does the Minister agree that measures such as reprimand, warning and fine can only be published once the case has become final? I have now taken up this issue. At what time can we expect the BIG II bill? I would like us to be able to discuss BIG II at the end of this year. At least I would have liked to have it submitted to the Chamber at that time. Before the summer, I'm putting the bill into procedure. How do you look at the admission and regulation of dental assistants? In determining whether a profession is regulated by law, the need for it must be demonstrated. There are criteria for regulating professions which must in any case be met. Occupational activity should focus on individual health care, the basic profession should be distinctive and there should be the need for protection of the profession. And that's what the profession has to prove. When does the Minister expect to send the AMvB to the Chamber? With the professional associations in mouth care, I've been sitting around the table. When asked, I gave them the space to come up with an alternative until April 20th. After April 20th, this Friday, if there is no alternative, I will bring the AMvB into proceedings. So that's gonna be before the summer. How does the Minister ensure that measures imposed in the European Netherlands also become known on the BES islands? This is to prevent healthcare professionals from taking measures there. Mr President, forgive me if the answer is a bit technical in nature. Most of the professionals working on the BES are also included in the BIG register of the BIG Act. I shall arrange for measures imposed on the BES by the disciplinary judge to be taken over and registered in the BIG register. Mrs Van den Berg said so. I can only arrange this for professionals who are also registered in the BIG register. On the other hand, it is of course also important that when a professional loses certain powers in the Netherlands, this also affects his ability to work at the BES. A so-called exemption is used at the BES. This exemption may be refused if a measure has been imposed in the Netherlands. There is also the possibility of withdrawing the already existing exemption. So that's how the information works in both directions. Is there sufficient maintenance in the case of operations of a cosmetic nature? It is important that patients know who they should be with with reports of abuses in this sector. For this purpose, patients can contact the Dutch National Health Service. The inspection can then take action. Then the question is how often the site is consulted. When will a campaign be launched? I'll give you the latest figures. Between January and August 2017, the site was consulted 5,700 times. I have no idea if that's much or little. Following Mrs Van den Berg's encouragement, we are going to update and improve the site, and we will advertise it a little more. That is what we are doing this spring, not later than June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u44	I am of course glad that the Minister indicates that he is going to look at the website anyway, but I will come back to the role of the inspection. In the pieces we read that in the last year the inspection at five beauty salons did an inspection. We find that very little sad. We would like to hear from the Minister how he can strengthen the inspection of this section and in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u45	We depend on reports of abuses to the inspection. The inspection can and will then take an active attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u46	Then I conclude that, if only on the basis of reports and no spontaneous inspections are carried out, the probability is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u47	It's not just reports, it's abuses. But also in the case of abuses, of course, you do need a reason. The best chance of success is sought for the deployment of an inspection. I do not see any reason to increase the number of inspections that have been carried out in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u48	Is it perhaps an option to look again at this sector, because the potential risks in this sector may have been somewhat underexplored in recent years? Because the inspection looks at where the main concerns lie in order to be able to use capacity effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u49	I would like to take this question to the inspection and I will make sure that it is answered. Let's see, what else we got? One more technical question, but it also needs to be answered. How does the construction work that school staff can perform reserved activities on a non-professional basis, i.e. voluntarily? Are there any agreements on this? Does the teaching staff have any objection to these activities being carried out in school time? Here he comes. Only persons authorised under the BIG Act may carry out reserved transactions such as injection independently. Educational assistants should not inject independently on a professional basis. They may inject professionally and under the supervision of a self-employed person, such as a doctor, if they are competent to do so. Whether there is professional activity depends on the circumstances. If the nurse acts are part of the task package, with a corresponding fee, there is professional action. Parents are allowed to inject insulin into their children because they do not act professionally. If an educational assistant injects insulin into a child at the request of the parents as a private person instead of one of the parents, non-professional action is also involved. Even then, instruction or training is needed in order to carry out the actions properly. Relevant to this remains what has been agreed with the caregiver, e.g. the GP, about the administration of insulin by family and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u50	Just to be clear, especially for the people who work in this sector. The minister began to say that under the supervision of a doctor, you could do certain actions. Is my conclusion right, then, that there is no need for supervision by a doctor when it comes to teaching staff in special schools, for example, that this is done in consultation with parents, for example? That staff was therefore requested by the parents to give their child insulin every day, twice a day at those and those moments. Then this staff is not subsequently confronted with the accusation that this was not in line with the doctor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr President, this question is so specific and I can imagine that some people in some schools are looking very closely at the answer to that question, which I would suggest you answer in writing. What about the light regime professionals? They do not have BIG registration. Can it be ensured that they can be found more easily in professional registers? Mr President, many professions in the light regime have a professional association with its own register. On the website of that professional association, the patient can look up whether the treatment person has a diploma. Moreover, the light regime means that the evidence of formal qualifications is protected. Only with the diploma can you call yourself a dental hygienist. In the event of abuse, the inspection may take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u52	Let me just clarify one more question. So as a patient, I need to know again that there will probably be a professional association. And then I have to know the name of that professional association. Sometimes that name consists of an abbreviation, so at least the patient doesn't know it at all. Hence our question whether, now that the BIG register is being redesigned, perhaps attention can be paid to it and whether links can be made to it, so that it is easier for the patient to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u53	We have to make a distinction here anyway. We are now dealing with a law on the BIG register, and not with other matters. Whoever you don't find in the BIG register isn't in there. So if you're looking for the dental hygienist, you should look at the website of the Dutch association for dental hygienists, with the very clear and clear abbreviation NVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u54	Let me give you an example. Let's say I'm looking for such a dental hygienist. I don't know about that, but I think the BIG register is the most famous. Do I understand that it is not possible, for example, for the following to appear on the register? "This register shall apply only to the following professions. There are also professions covered by Part 2. For this, you should look at the websites of the following professional associations." I understand that the Minister does not want this integrated into the BIG register, but we are talking about a reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u55	This question is also very precise. I should see how that can be done in practice. I have no idea now, but if I am still writing a letter, I would like to include the answer to this question. Mrs Van den Berg also asked whether a volunteer could quickly be regarded as working in the professional context. Volunteers may be involved in the care. This does not mean that the quality of care should be affected. Voluntary work shall be carried out under the authority and responsibility of the health care institutions. Volunteers, of course, if they are not BIG-registered, should not be allowed to perform reserved activities on their own. They are subject to the same restrictions as any other citizen. Another amendment has been tabled by Mrs van den Berg. I am still not quite clear whether the text remains intact; we will hear that. On the basis of what I said earlier, I would at least advise against this version of this amendment. I come to the questions put by Mr Groothuizen of D66. What are the criteria for imposing an LOB? I am looking at Mr Groothuizen. I think that question has already been answered. I see him nodding. He also asked how the procedure in the administrative court goes if caregivers disagree with the LOB. I also mentioned this, including the possibility to apply for compensation through the administrative judge, under the General Administrative Law Act. What does the administrative judge do with the assessment of the application of the inspection at the request of the LOB? The board judge will review that LOB. The Administrative Court will assess whether the inspection has reasonably been able to reach its decision. He does this by checking whether the law has been properly applied and whether the decision fits into the policy area that the law offers. Part of the administrative review is the question of whether the general principles of good administration have been correctly applied. This concerns, for example, whether the adverse effects of an LOB on a professional are not disproportionate in relation to the public health objective to be served. Strict criteria have been formulated to be met by an LOB. It is for the court to assess whether the inspector has correctly considered, on the basis of the facts, that the conduct meets those legal criteria and whether the principles of good administration have been respected when imposing an LOB. If the LOB is found to have been wrongly imposed and the administrative judge who destroys LOB, then there is that possibility of compensation. Mr Groothuizen also asked a question about the threshold at the Registry. That's what I've been talking about. When is the bill BIG II coming to the Chamber? Like I said, before the summer, we'll put that in the procedure. The intention is to offer this to your Chamber before the end of the year. Are you willing to find alternatives to publicizing reprimands? It is clear from the argument we made earlier that I do not have that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u56	Yes, that was clear to me by now. However, the Minister had the willingness to see if this information could be adapted, for which he thanked. The question then is when does the Minister intend to send it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u57	I don't know, because I figured out myself that I want to look at those short texts. So give me a moment, but I can at least let you know when I know something about it in the same note I just promised Mrs van den Berg. Then we've got three dots. What is the learning ability of professionals after publication? As a result of Mrs Ellemeet's speech, we have already addressed this issue. What do I think of the disclosure and choice of doctors to stop as a result of the disclosure? I think we talked about that, too. The cosmetic doctors have also been discussed. We also discussed the immediate termination of the LOB. Then I come to Mrs Agema's questions. Can the Minister give a number of examples of conduct in the private sphere leading to disciplinary proceedings? That was Mrs Agema's first question. For example, the case that a GP had murdered his wife, possession of child pornography, illegal trafficking of drugs and violent and life crimes. Those are examples. Another question: are the terms of the LOB clearly defined? Could the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u58	Sorry about that, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u59	I think that is very concrete examples, but I do not see them coming together in a certain category. A traffic ticket, speeding, is that out of the question? What is the difference between what is and what is not behaviour in the private sphere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u60	The coat rack is what is appropriate in relation to the exercise of the profession. In general, this does not include speeding in your car and the subjects I mentioned. That's how it's done. Are the examples of the LOB clearly defined? I can give an example of that too. I think the Hague breast doctor is the most famous example. This concerns a situation in which several patients have been seriously injured, the inspection has evidence that the professional is in breach of the rules or is not fit to exercise the profession responsibly. The Hague breast doctor is the example, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u61	I had asked what would happen if not within eight weeks to a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u62	That's the next question. Indeed, as Mrs Agema pointed out, the LOB expires after eight weeks if no disciplinary complaint has been lodged by the inspection. If the inspector decides not to file a disciplinary complaint within eight weeks, he shall inform the professional as soon as possible. The LOB could be over by then. Although a period of eight weeks is relatively short for the careful preparation and filing of a disciplinary complaint, as far as cases are concerned, that period for inspection should be considered realistic. Since there is a major public health interest in imposing the LOB, a period of eight weeks is not disproportionately detrimental to the professional. The doctor can go to the administrative court to object to that LOB. This may also take time, but he may also choose the accelerated procedure with a provisional provision. How is the supervision of temporarily suspended or deleted caregivers arranged? The answer to that question is that the inspection is aware of the suspension and supervises compliance. What is the role of health care institutions? The care facility must respect the suspension. If it does not, the inspection may take place if the quality of care is at stake. Furthermore, Mrs Agema has asked whether plastic surgery is still not a specialty. Plastic surgery is a specialty under Article 14 of the BIG Act. I would like to point out that the Healthcare Institute Netherlands is currently working with various parties in the cosmetic sector on a quality framework for cosmetic medicine. Following this, competence requirements will be "who can do what?" The Commission shall be assisted by a committee of the
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u63	So today's practice is that someone who's generally trained to be a surgeon can't just pretend to be a plastic surgeon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u64	I find this type of question very specific, because it has legal effects. I am therefore committed to answering this question in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u65	I'm fine with that. Now that we are going to ask for the BIG number to be mentioned on the website of the healthcare providers, are we going to immediately request that it be linked to the BIG register?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u66	I would like to answer that question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you. I think that question about those plastic surgeons is so important for the following reason. I think the practice was that, if you were generally trained as a surgeon, you could just be a plastic surgeon without being trained in it. So it happened that a surgeon crossed breasts to push an implant in there. That is why I find this question so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you for this visual way of expressing yourself. I would also like to give a precise answer to that, because perhaps we are listening to what we are saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u69	Sorry about my visual equation. But that man was a perfectly legitimate plastic surgeon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr. Chairman. It was then asked whether the Registry fees outweighed the administrative burden. We just talked about that. Mrs Agema asked whether the Minister could make sure that the authority of a health care professional can be seen with a click of the button, including any measures that might be imposed. If the name of the professional has been found, it can indeed be seen at once whether restrictions apply. At the moment we still have the problem of multiple hits on a name, for example with "Jansen." In the future, once we have dealt with this bill and it has your consent, that problem has been solved with the unique BIG registration number. In doing so, I hope to have answered the questions as they please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u71	Apparently, there are no further questions from the Chamber. Then I find that this was the first term. If there is a need for a second term, I wonder out loud. In any case, Mr Hijink of the SP Group. I therefore give him the floor for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answers. The same applies to the previous written answers we have received from this Minister. We were quite happy with those answers, because they gave a lot of clarity. That is sometimes different when you ask written questions to the government. Sometimes you get sent into a deep, dark forest. But in this case, the answers were very enlightening. We had a discussion about how statements made by a disciplinary college should then be published. As far as the SP is concerned, two things are very important. Publicity is most important, precisely because it is so important that we strengthen the quality of care. This also means that you have to look at the patient's interest and the interest of the health care provider. So we come to the question of whether the explanatory notes on publications should be more comprehensive. We have an amendment in preparation to improve this. It's just... it's not done yet. We're gonna see if we can file that in time. In any case, I have already tabled a motion on this subject together with Mr De Lange. We may be able to withdraw them if the amendment were much better, but that is for later. Let's start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the movement has been used to provide increasing transparency around the quality of care;]] [[Whereas it is important for people to know why any measures included in the BIG register have been imposed in their choice for a specific healthcare provider;]] [[noting that, when publishing measures by means of a note in the BIG register, publication in the Official Journal, one or more local newspapers or weekly newspapers and on a list on the website of the BIG register, it is not immediately clear why a measure has been imposed;]] [[considers that this can lead to uncertainty among people and other caregivers in the profession;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for including a brief, comprehensible explanation of why a particular measure has been imposed in the publication of measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr De Lange. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34629-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u73	If an amendment is to be tabled on this point, I would like to ask the Minister to reply in writing. But that's for later concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u74	He has to do that anyway, because he has to review the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u75	Well, look, that's what I'm talking about. Then there's the explanation of the behavior. The Minister wants to come back to that at a later date. That's very good. We find it difficult to explain that people who, because of certain behaviours, are no longer able to go to nursing care, for example, they have committed theft or mistreatment, for example, in home care, where you also come across very vulnerable people at home. I don't think that's a pleasant prospect for those people. It is, of course, about preventing problems. It is very important that we can tackle the problems harder through disciplinary law, but I think it is even more important to prevent them. That is why we will be tabling a motion together with the CDA to clarify the question of which professions should be required to act. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you. Mr De Lange from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and commitments. Care must be safe and reliable. First of all, this is extremely important for the patient, but certainly also for the hardworking care worker. It must be able to work in a culture that is taught and improved. I did find it striking in the debate that we are all actually looking for ways of getting that done. That seems to me to be a clear message, also to the care itself. I know they're working hard on that, too. It is therefore good to be completely clear in the provision of information and to publish any measures in clear and understandable Dutch. Mr Hijink has just tabled a motion on my behalf. I think it would be nice if we could step into that. I think it is a real gain that cosmetic operations will be included in the reserved operations and that towards BIG II, the definition of the equipment used for this purpose will still be considered, so that this will also be strong for the future. We have now dealt with disciplinary law with this bill. On to BIG-II, where we are going to talk about the profession of all those people who work so well in our care!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In his answer to questions about the publications, the Minister dismissed himself: on whose side are we going to stand, on the side of the professional or on the side of the patient? I hope we're on both sides. Because in my opinion, disciplinary law will only be really effective if we can create the cooperation between the professional and the patient. I have heard the Minister say very nice words about this. It is very important to be open and to create a safe space for the professional and the patient to discuss it together when things go wrong and to learn from it together. Thank you for that. GroenLinks believes it is important that reprimands and fines are made public in the right context so that people know what that information is about. In addition, I continue to attach great importance to the proportionality of publishing information, because I think we need to weigh the advantages and disadvantages very well against each other. Together with Mrs Van den Berg, I will be tabling another amendment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you. Then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for all the comprehensive answers and for the commitment to report some details in the letter. This morning it was already clear that the amendment as I had originally dressed it has no support at all. As Mrs Ellemeet pointed out, we think it is very important that proportionality is taken into account and that the context is reflected. We are therefore coming up with an amended amendment. I see now that we have forgotten to put Mrs Ellemeet's name underneath. So I would like to say that this amendment is also being tabled by Mrs Ellemeet. I'm also filing three motions. The first motion, already announced by Mr. Hijink, is about the vog. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that healthcare should be as safe as possible for patients and clients;]] [[noting that continuous screening of employees has been imposed in several other sectors, such as childcare, in addition to a mandatory declaration of behaviour for safety purposes;]] [[Whereas, in the case of continuous screening, a supervisor is informed if a staff member who is registered in a professional register has new criminal data in his name;]] [[considers that continuous screening can be a good tool for improving the safety of patients and clients;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with professional organisations and patient associations, whether and, if so, for which professions, in addition to a compulsory vog, continuous screening could also be made compulsory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34629-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u82	We have not yet seen the new amendment. It has not yet been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u83	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u84	So we can't ask any more questions about that. I do not need a third deadline right now, Mr President, but can Mrs Van den Berg indicate in a few words what the amendment is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u85	It is explicitly the word 'property'. It is still the case that the Disciplinary Board determines that. It must be proportionate to communicate. I can read out a bit of the amendment: 'The decision to make a note in the register and public notification should therefore take into account the proportionality of the infringement, as is currently the case in law of lawyers'. Next, it says: "The decision to disclose may include cases where the professional concerned does not show a self-reflection or lack of self-reflection or is in the general interest of individual health care. If a measure is to be published by the Disciplinary Board, it shall not be made public until it has become irrevocable. It is also desirable that the Disciplinary Board should be able to decide that a measure should be made public only with sufficient explanations to clarify the context of the measure for patients."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u86	So? Will a reprimand or a fine be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u87	We leave that to the Disciplinary Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u88	So you expect a written appreciation from the Minister of this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u90	One of my fellow Members has just asked whether there is a chance that caregivers will feel that equal penalties will no longer apply to equal cases. Isn't Mrs Van den Berg afraid that in one case she will only be reprimanded, while the other will be reprimanded, including a publication? This will, of course, be a difficult issue for the Disciplinary College itself, because adding a publication can then just feel like an extra punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u91	Well, let's take an example. Suppose someone does something once and gets a reprimand, and the second time the same thing happens. In such a case, for example, the disciplinary college can say: yes, sorry, the first time we found that something had gone wrong, but not the second time. Just now the example of a file that was not properly built up was mentioned, or old information was used. We have also explicitly included the reference to the Lawyer Law College. In fact, we do not see what Mr Hijink raises as a concern. That's a good way to work at the law school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u92	But, of course, there is a risk that the publication of a reprimand or other measure will not be intended to improve the exercise of the profession, but to add an additional measure to tackle someone harder than others in one case. The question is, of course, whether the right of disciplinary action and the publication of measures are intended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u93	I think the purpose of disciplinary law is also patient safety, which we were just talking about. We're on the patient's side. If things happen that endanger patient safety, then there is simply no discussion at all. We are talking here about matters where there is clearly no or little self-reflection, i.e. where disciplinary law believes that a person has learned nothing from it. In the case of two similar cases, you might say: two of the same offences, therefore, are published in one case and not in the other. This is also due to the way in which the person responded to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u94	Your next motion. Oh, there is another question from Mrs Agema on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u95	So with the CDA, we're going to an apology culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u96	We don't see that as an apology culture. Again, we also refer to the practice of lawyers. In that sense, there is also strict action. So again, just saying sorry is not the issue here. The point is that there is proportionality. As Mrs Ellemeet has just pointed out, we hope that we are not only on the side of the patients, but also on the side of the caregivers. We want to strike a balance in this. That is what we hope to achieve with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u97	Fine. Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u98	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research has shown that the publication of reprimands and fines means that a significant number of caregivers are considering stopping working;]] [[noting that reprimands and fines are generally made public without context;]] [[considers that information on reprimands and fines will not be of benefit to patients if there is no appropriate context;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with professional organisations and patient organisations, to determine the information to be given in the event of disclosure of reprimands and fines in such a way that the context of the measure is clear to patients;]] [[calls on the Government to make this information known in the future in the course of the measures made public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34629-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u99	I have a question about this motion in relation to what you just said about the amendment. In this motion, you state that it is important to reveal this and to outline the context properly. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u100	You agree with Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u101	I fully agree with Mrs Van den Berg. In your amendment, you propose to make a distinction. You are proposing that the disciplinary judge should make a judgment on this matter and that information should be disclosed in one case and not in the other. Why this amendment, if you think it is very important that every patient is properly informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u102	Two things about that. Firstly, we want the context of decisions to be clearer. The second is that in some cases we want the decision not to be published if the Disciplinary Court thinks so. Today, of course, we have heard the discussion in this Chamber. If the amendment does not reach it now, then at least we would like to have secured it, not examined it, but simply secured it, which will now be mentioned in the context of decisions, from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u103	I actually think it's getting crazier. Mrs Van den Berg says that there are increasing numbers of workers who are considering stopping as a result of the law before us today. But last year, 141 measures were published out of the 350,000 people in the BIG register. Don't you think that the vast majority of those 350,000 professionals, who are skilled and who see that someone else has crossed the line, just likes that the standards are kept high?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u104	I do not think we have any discussion at all about keeping standards up. That is precisely what the warning and the reprimand and the fine are for. It is not at all the case that we would like to amend the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u105	But you write that more and more professionals are considering stopping? How many are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u106	We are concerned that once people have gone wrong, the Disciplinary Court is looking at whether this is a mistake that we should share equally in the public domain. If that is not the case, someone can actually do it once without it being known everywhere in the public domain and throughout the village. That has nothing to do with changing the standard at the time, because the standard is precisely why someone gets that warning, that reprimand or that fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u107	Finally. It actually says here that a significant number of caregivers are considering stopping work. But only 141 measures have really been made public. What part is considering stopping? How many people are considering stopping? It's disproportionate what you're writing here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u108	We can only refer to the investigation of the NIVEL. We did so in the footnote to the amendment. I have nothing else to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u109	Your third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u110	I'm on my third motion. I had asked questions about botox before, so it may not be surprising that this motion is about botox and fillers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas doctors at the Erasmus Medical Centre indicate that more than 390,000 treatments with Botox and fillers have been carried out in 2016 alone;]] [[Whereas these doctors indicate that they treat many patients after being injected in a back room of a solar studio, or at the hairdresser, bad fillers or even some kind of plastic;]] [[noting that the study of beauty salons in summer 2016 did not include hairdressers and solar studios;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out follow-up studies, including treatment with Botox or fillers offered by companies, such as hairdressers and solar studios, which are not registered as having beauty care as core business;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the matter before the end of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34629-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u111	Here again the question: what is the order of magnitude? As if all barbers in the back of the Botox case were sprayed! It's just forbidden, right? It's just not right, is it? But now all hairdressers need to be hunted down from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mrs Agema rightly points out that it is forbidden. On the other hand, we must note that it is happening, because otherwise these people would not end up with a medical specialist for a recovery operation. The Minister has just indicated that the capacity of the inspection is currently focused on notifications. We have also indicated to the Minister that this sector may not be sufficiently represented in the inspection. That is why we would like to examine this sector further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u113	Fine. Thank you. Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Agema waived their speaking time. Then this is the closure of the Chamber. Is the Minister ready to respond? That is not the case. It indicates five minutes from now. And not a second longer!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u114	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u115	Thank you, Mr President. No further questions were raised in the second-term submissions. However, an amendment and four motions have been tabled. As I do not yet have the text of the amendment, it will be answered in writing. Then I'll get to the four motions. In the motion in part No. 11 The Government is invited to identify the possibilities for including in the publication of measures in a brief, comprehensible explanation of why a particular measure has been imposed. That is very close to what I have tried to express in the first term. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr. Hijink? The motion has gotten "judge chamber," hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u117	Certainly, but it is equally complicated, because we have just come to the conclusion that it is also quite possible to table an amendment on this issue. So that's in the making now. That is why I would like to hold this motion for a moment, so that we can first table the amendment and the Minister can respond to it. Then we can see where we stand after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u118	At the request of Mr Hijink, I propose his motion (34629, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u119	There will be another motion, the operative part of which is incredibly similar to that of this motion. I'll say something about that later. In the motion in part No. 12 the Government is invited to examine, together with professional organisations and patient associations, whether and, if so, for which professions, in addition to a mandatory declaration of conduct, continuous screening could also be made compulsory. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. I don't see it as a practically possible motion to carry out. For this purpose, all kinds of information from the Public Prosecutor's Office must be linked to countless parties of concern. If I left the opinion to the Chamber on the question of examining this, it would give rise to a certain expectation of feasibility. I hardly see it as doing so, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u120	Fine. Then the motion to part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u121	It calls on the Government to define, together with professional organisations and patient organisations, the information to be given in the event of disclosure of reprimands and fines in such a way that the context of the measure is clear to patients. The Government is also invited to provide this information in the future in the context of the measures made public. So this motion looks a bit like the motion in part No. 11. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u122	I'd like to explain the difference between the motion in part No. 11 and the motion in part No. 14. We have the motion in part No. 14 tabled because in the motion in part No. 11 is asked to look at the possibilities. In our motion, we say we just want it to happen. If the Minister says that this motion will also be given a 'judgement chamber', I would like to have a further confirmation that it will be implemented as far as he is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u123	I do not want to carry out the comparison too far, but I also want to do so in the motion in part No. 11 is asked to include in an understandable explanation why a particular measure has been imposed. That recording goes back to the publication. So I thought it wasn't just about research, it was about publishing. That is what I think is being asked for in the motion for a resolution. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u124	The Minister has read the motion correctly and leaves it to the Court to decide. Then we're out, I guess. Then the motion to part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u125	It invites the government to carry out follow-up studies looking at treatment with botox or fillers offered by companies such as hairdressers and solar studios, and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year. I would advise against this motion. The use of fillers is a form of injection and is already prohibited. This has been further clarified by the legislation contained in this legislative proposal. I do not see any reason to look into this at this time. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mrs van den Berg's amended amendment has now arrived, but we expect a written comment on that on your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u127	Yeah, I think it's a good thing we're doing that in writing, like I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u128	Then you can sleep on it. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Minister for his presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-19-tweedekamer-10.u129	Next Tuesday we will be voting on the motions, the legislative amendment and the amendments, which we have yet to receive in part, as well as the Minister's comments on them.
