ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Van den Hul's question to the Foreign Minister, and welcome him on the fact that the United States is no longer issuing visas to unmarried Libyans among non-American diplomats and UN staff. Mrs Van den Hul, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Love is love, whoever you are. That's why we celebrated the Pride in Rotterdam last weekend with over a thousand others. But worldwide the freedom to love whoever you want is under increasing pressure. Yesterday, President Trump's America hit the world's lhbt community for the umpteenth time. With immediate effect, unmarried partners of the same sex are forced to marry. If they do not do so within three months, their visa will even be revoked. Indeed, since yesterday, America has been refusing new visa applications for unmarried partners of the same sex of diplomats. That is a bad thing, not only because you are not allowed to force anyone to marry, but especially because you are allowed to marry only in 25 countries in the world as a gay man or as a lesbian woman. Many diplomats and their partners, including Dutch, have therefore been living in enormous uncertainty since yesterday. Does the Minister agree with us that this runs counter to human rights, which the Netherlands stands for, and our struggle for lht-emancipation worldwide? Does the Minister intend to respond to this at EU level, expressing his disapproval of this degrading measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Love is love," says Mrs Van den Hul. I agree. That is also Dutch policy when it comes to allowing foreign diplomats. The Netherlands is indeed at the forefront when it comes to the rights of lhbt'ers. This is demonstrated by the fact that in the Netherlands we allow diplomats of equal sex, or also of different genders, also on the basis of a declaration of society. In addition, last week, for example, at the United Nations General Assembly, we are also making a strong public commitment to the rights of IBTs. It's not like that all over the world. The Vienna Convention provides that countries may themselves lay down the rules for the admission of diplomats and may also impose a requirement for marriage. This requirement does not apply to the Netherlands, but is very common outside the Netherlands. The United States has just announced this demand, stating that they have just introduced this requirement for their own diplomats and that they want to align the rules for their own outgoing diplomats and incoming diplomats. The Dutch representation, together with other European representatives, asked for an explanation of this. We have also been asked to respect the position of people who are already there and who do not meet the requirement. Our image is that it will be. In fact, it is not in line with the Vienna Convention to ask for non-married persons to be admitted as well. This would also cause problems in a number of European countries, for the demand for marriage is also common in other European countries. That is where we come across the limits of European unity and of the Vienna Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	Straight couples can marry anywhere in the world, but gay couples and lesbian couples can't. This does indeed violate their rights. To be honest, I expect a more decisive action from a minister who claims to have a high priority for human rights. Hence my follow-up question: do we even know how many Dutch diplomats and their partners are affected by this measure? Can the Minister guarantee to their future diplomats and their partners that the Netherlands will not give in to this measure? Because I stand by it: Love is love, also in Trump's America.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	I indicated that we asked for a transitional measure for existing cases. We have done this together with other European countries. Our image is that there will be room for that. If you were to make that demand for the future, it would mean that the Netherlands would have to ask for a change to the Vienna Convention for a number of countries, because not only the United States, but also a number of European countries are demanding marriage. That does not seem to me to be such a real option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	I insist that it should not matter who you love and what your bourgeois status is to be able to carry out your work as a diplomat on behalf of the Netherlands. I hope that the Minister will continue to hold this discussion at European level and that he will also examine the possibilities of getting support from other European countries, because everyone must be sure that he can be himself, even in the diplomatic service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'd like to make a promise that I'll keep the conversation. As I said, I also spoke extensively at the United Nations General Assembly last week. If you would like to realize a global change, which is what we would like to do, then you will indeed have to form a very broad coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I think Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet was the first. It shall speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	The CDA is committed to diversity and equality. I have not heard from the Minister today that he wants to measure this widely and that he also wants to take a stand. He has said that he will try diplomatically to get people on the same page, but I would like to hear a tougher statement from him. I'd like to hear from him that he specifically stands up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	I have just indicated that, frankly, at the General Assembly of the United Nations, a larger world scene has not been discussed in detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	We were so proud of April 1, 2001, when, after a battle of 30 years, the Netherlands was the first country in the world to open the marriage to everyone. And now, so many years on, you see that it's being fought again. Even then a lot of people said: don't make too many illusions; the rest of the world will not follow the Netherlands. In the meantime, 24 countries have followed the example of the Netherlands. And then here I see a minister who doesn't sound very excited after all. I would like to ask him: would you not consider how we can help all those people in all those countries where people cannot yet marry each other if they are of the same sex?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	You could do that, for example...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	...by marrying here in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Krol!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	...for those diplomats who can't do that in their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	I see you're on a roll.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'm also really pissed off, Madam President. I've been fighting for this for 30 years!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes, I can imagine, but you really have 30 seconds. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm very proud of the gay wedding. I also voted in favour of it as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u23	It's not even gay marriage!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u24	No, Mr. Krol!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u25	The issue in the United States is not about the situation of married people, precisely not. It's about the situation of living together. In the situation that diplomats come to the Netherlands and there is equal sex or different gender, there is the possibility to enter into that social contract in the Netherlands. Of course, I have no jurisdiction over other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u26	For my group, too, it is very important for this minister to take an active stance. It is a fundamental unequal treatment of our diplomats based on their sexual preference, and then by one of our most important allies. The specific question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to address his American colleague and call for this measure to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u27	I have indicated that the demand for marriage is not a specific American demand and that it is made in many places in the world, including in other European countries, and that this is in line with the Viennese Treaty. It's a choice that the Netherlands doesn't make. I also think it's very good that the Netherlands doesn't make that choice, but other countries have the right to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u28	I believe that the core of what the Chamber is putting forward today from left to right is that this is a major step backwards in the fight for Ihbti rights. I think that question is clearly asked by a number of people, whether the Minister is prepared to ask the United States to take this step back. I am very familiar with the Viennese Treaty, but the United States had a very different policy for this, namely that it could. So let's go back to that policy. Let us ask the Americans to re-introduce this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u29	My point remains: Mr Sjoerdsma is aware of the Vienna Convention... that the Vienna Convention allows countries to make such demands, that the United States is not the only country to do so, but that European countries do so. Against this background, it is not logical for a country which completes the Viennese Treaty in this way to make that demand, knowing that there are a lot of other countries that also fill it out in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you.
