ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the VSO Concept Ministerial Arrangement on Minimal Gas Extraction from the Groningenveld, Room 34957, nr. 48. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman as the first speaker on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think the whole room here is yearning for Christmas. In the previous ceremonies, Groningen was shocked by a violent earthquake. I felt the ground shaking under me. And what kind of Christmas vacation is this gonna be for Groningen? Many Groningers still have no solid ground under their feet. They're waiting for the damage to be repaired. After the earthquake in Zeerijp, more than 5,600 damage was reported. But in the entire commune of Loppersum, only 32 damages have been decided this year. That's 2% of the damage at the place where the earth trembled the hardest. People are waiting for reinforcement of their unsafe homes. After a large part of the year, this reinforcement has now started, but involved local directors say that it is a delay tactic of the minister and they call it absurdly state-owned. An employee of the National Coordinator Groningen characterized the NAM model on which the prioritisation is based as a disastrous event and as indefenable. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions with which I would like to ask the Chamber to give a little more certainty before Christmas in Groningen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministerial Arrangement states that the strengthening must be carried out rapidly;]] [[noting that the strengthening is not progressing rapidly;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure a vigorous reinforcement approach supported by the region, ensuring sufficient inspection capacity and funding as soon as possible, with residents who have already had an inspection not having to wait again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years many new buildings in Groningen have been delayed by stowing with the NAM on the additional costs for earthquake-proof construction;]] [[Whereas in the last year there was a scheme whereby the additional costs of earthquake-proof construction were paid by the NAM;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[noting that this is likely to result in further delays;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure with great urgency that a new regime is put in place which compensates for the additional costs of earthquake-proof construction by the NAM but which has no control over the implementation of this new building,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kops and Mr Akerboom.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-49]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot, Mr Kops and Mr Akerboom.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions for the Minister and I will table a motion. The first question concerns a specific point. A committee has been set up to advise on the decline in the value of housing. That would happen at the end of the year. I can't wait to see if that advice really comes along. Is this part of the complex process of what has to be done in and around Groningen being speeded up? The second question I have is in relation to the progress that is being made with the phasing out of gas extraction. Thanks for sending that too. It is good to see that we are on track there and may even be able to go a little faster. However, I have to ask whether the Minister has any explanation as to why all this is possible now, while the Chamber has long been told that there was as little error as possible in this area. Can he provide an explanation for this? I also encourage him to continue at the same pace on that point. Another point where too little pace has been achieved is a switch-off plan. We've asked for that a lot. In case of calamities some gas can be switched off here and there if the need is to the man, for example in the event of a severe earthquake. That is why I shall table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the natural gas switch-off plan has not yet been sent to the Chamber;]] [[Whereas EenVandaag's report on the confidential crisis plan shows that improvements are possible;]] [[Whereas a good exit plan provides clarity in the event of emergencies and can also provide additional safety;]] [[calls on the government to send a well-thought-out exit plan to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you. Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just now the message came out that almost 80% of the Groningers feel unsafe or are very worried about safety in their own home. That's an expression of what's going on right now. In fact, 1 July last year would require clarity for everyone, but that does not appear to be the case. You see more and more residents standing "with their heads against each other," as they say in Groningen, also literally, in Loppersum last week. It is quite sad to see that, because those people, those aldermen and mayors are doing an awful lot of work to solve the misery of the earthquakes for their inhabitants. Schools need to be strengthened, people need to move and the elderly need to be moved elsewhere from nursing homes. People with damage are badly helped. They really do their best for that, but now their own people are going to say to them: you are not standing up for us and you must protest in The Hague. The big request to the Minister is: solve this and get behind the Groningers. That is why I am also under Mrs Beckerman's motion, because that is actually our appeal. Of course, the Minister is going to say: I am behind them and not against them. That's not the intention either. But that is what is happening more and more. You can even see that those in Groningen who had the confidence, the mayors and the aldermen, are in danger of getting into trouble because it is unclear what is going to happen to people's homes. I really think it's been an irrefutable mess in Groningen. The Minister is now responsible for this. He's got an inheritance that no one would want, but he hasn't solved the problem. The problem hasn't gotten any smaller. The pressing question to the Minister is how he's going to solve it now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr President, thank you. We've had written consultations. Our group asked questions about the reinforcement exercise and about the measurement and control protocol in Groningen. We had hoped to have the full debate on strengthening this week, but unfortunately it will not be on the agenda until the first week after the recess. That is why I have a number of concerns about the reinforcement. From Loppersum I get reports that seem to indicate that the motion we adopted last year is not being carried out. This motion also invites the government to provide owners of properties from batch 1581 who have already received a reinforcement advice to have the reinforcement advice carried out, even if their home is safe according to the latest insights. I would like to comment on the implementation of batch 1581 reinforcement recommendations. I hear that these people are being told to wait, while some of them already have reinforcement advice and some of them also have an increased risk profile. Why can't the Minister get on with that? It's all set up, isn't it? Is this true? What's the Minister gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. I also hear that funding for the 1588-batch is still awaited. This is impossible, isn't it? How about this? What are you waiting for? Will the Minister ensure that this reinforcement starts as soon as possible? I hope that this time the Minister will not only point to the region, but also to what he himself can do in order to speed up. Mr. Chairman. A heart cry from the region: people want to move on with their lives. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the CDA wants to see a rapid work on a ministerial arrangement for the measurement and control protocol. In the past, my group has repeatedly stressed the need to follow the critical advice of State supervision of the Mines on the measurement and control protocol. Is the Minister prepared to share with the Chamber the evaluation by the SodM of the measurement and control protocol and when will it enter? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr President. We have a motion and a question. I'd like to start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,]] [[Whereas it is in the interest of Groningen that gas extraction should go to zero as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to have the annual estimate of GTS validated by an external party by default,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question, as I said. I have also asked written questions about this. This concerns the situation of information meetings organised in Groningen villages and municipalities. They cause more confusion than they offer solutions. Putting an alderman in front of a group of residents who actually doesn't know exactly what's going to happen is ultimately a recipe for chaos. Our question is: can the Minister clarify this? In particular, there is one key question that we can actually hear coming back from all over the region. For the Empire, it is important to take as a role: to let you know very clearly and quickly how much money is available for the Groningen villages, so that local administrators can tell clear stories. That is why I hope the Minister has a good answer to this. I know that a good answer does not yet give a fortified house, but we can at least build on clarity. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. I'm looking at the minister. Two minutes? There is a need for a short two-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u14	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd do the questions first. The first question that has been asked is from Mr Van der Lee. The opinion on the fall in value is indeed in the final stage. According to the authors, the draft opinion is here in January. The committee wants to use the month of January to coordinate with the region. Then I'll offer the advice to the Chamber. Why is the exhausting of the gas extraction now working? I didn't study that. I've focused on the future, but I haven't studied the past. The fact is that we, myself and this cabinet, have set other priorities in terms of the nitrogen plant and that we have pushed down the question very systematically but also somewhat roughly. Soon we will even do so by means of legislation. Those are, I think, the differences. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer's question is perhaps simply the question of the day, because it is true that there is also division within the region. It is also difficult to say what the general interest of the people in Groningen is, because some want to be quick, while others are afraid of it. I think we really have to say that gas extraction is going down; in a little over four years we're practically at the bottom. It is going very fast, but at the same time it has created a huge amount of uncertainty. All things that may have been unpleasant, but they are well-known, may be now. More pleasant, but we're not sure yet. In any case, there is not always clarity in that from the beginning. I'm following the advice of the Mining Council. According to that Mining Council advice, we should be able to strengthen faster, but also much less homes, because it becomes safe much faster. But I really think the only way, the only way, to get the trust of the Groningers is to show it. And that's extremely exciting. That's what three governments have to do with each other. Those governments don't have the very best history with each other. There are also a number of very understandable sub-interests. So it's a matter of delivering in execution. I don't have another recipe for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u17	This is the question of the day, but I realize that I do not have the answer of the day to report. I'm very honest about that. Then there is a question from Mrs Mulder. Let's talk about the 1588 batch. The budget is just available. That was decided on 3 July, everyone delivered, there is no financial issue. But the region and the corporations, also in the presence of BZK, are now talking about the use of the budget. It's not about getting the budget together, it's about putting the budget into action. Mrs Mulder scared me for a moment, because she says I would not have carried out a motion. It's about batch 1581. On 3 July, we said that everyone who had already received safety advice was covered by the old approach. By the way, I did not say that on 3 July, we decided on 29 March. So anyone who's already received safety advice is covered by the old approach and continues. The 1581 batch is generally not included. However, as Mrs Mulder rightly pointed out at the time, there was a small group that was included. Because somewhere I believe there were less than 15 houses that had received safety advice, but which are still in the batch 1581. Those houses just have to go through. These other houses, as can be found throughout the communication with the Chamber, are covered by the new approach. This new approach is now underway. So there are houses in there that need to be dealt with, including in the batch. They are therefore dealt with in the new approach. The others need to be looked at afterwards, because residents can ask for a inclusion of the new standards. But the Mining Council and SodM are very strict about that. SodM's on my ass too, I must say. First the houses with the biggest risk, then the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u18	Please continue. You were with Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mrs Mulder also asks about the measurement and control protocol. That is currently being evaluated by SodM. We need a new rule protocol on October 1st. Civil society organisations are involved. The results of the evaluation will also be taken into account. I will be able to send that to the Chamber around the summer, because it will have to take place on 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u20	We tabled the motion on batch 1581 on 5 July. It was accepted after that. All the people who already had reinforcements at home and who are in that batch are covered, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u21	There are between 10 and 15 people who have actually received safety advice from the NCG. They're covered. There was a threat of a WOB request, but that seemed very inelegant. So we sent these people the documents that were drawn up according to the old method, in the form they had then. They don't have the character of safety advice. Those people didn't come under the motion at the time either. I made that clear back then. The correspondence is also very clear about this. However, this is clearly stated in the letter of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u22	Finally, Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u23	I am going to look into this further into the debate we are having in January. I have the feeling that this is unclear at the moment. We all need that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u24	That's what I'm looking for. So there are people who got a package of 329 pages of paper. That's what they've been waiting for for years. That was the advice that said: very painful, but your house is unsafe; here's the advice: we're going to strengthen it. Are you saying that these people can wait for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u25	I'm not saying anything but I said it in early July. Then it was decided to continue batch 1588 at a rate to be determined. That's what the budget was raised for. There is. We then said that batch 1581 is covered by the new approach. That's very clear in the chambers. Only those who have received a formal safety advice, a reinforcement advice, will be included in the existing approach. That's about 15 of them. People who have requested the papers as they were, but who have not received a safety advice from the NCG, are really not included. That has been clear from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u26	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u27	So we're gonna call the pack of paper different now. It's not reinforcement advice, but it's just security papers. It does say that people's houses are unsafe. So these people have to wait again now, while even employees of yours,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u28	From the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u29	...that is, employees of the National Coordinator Groningen say that the whole model on which we now base the prioritisation is a gotsp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u30	That's another discussion. I realise that all kinds of opinions are possible on every conceivable model. In my responsibility, I rely on experts to identify models and use them. And that's what I'm supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u31	Let's move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u32	No, there were other questions asked. Mr Sienot has asked how much money is actually available for which village. That is quite the wrong approach. First of all, we would suggest that villages should pay for their own reinforcements. They don't have to. The bill for the reinforcement must not end up with the municipalities. It has to pay the NAM via the back door, but ultimately the counter. The amount required for the reinforcement will be available. That budget must never be truncated. If municipalities want to do other things besides the reinforcement, there is a budget for the region that comes from a completely different pot. That's what the region really is about. I am not going to determine that from here on, and I hope that Mr Sienot will not be with me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u33	This is interesting, isn't it? We can go magic with pots, where it belongs and doesn't belong and whose responsibility it is. In the letter of 20 September, it was agreed that the availability of resources should not be a delaying factor in the implementation of the reinforcement needed for security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u35	Exactly that seems to happen now. The people at the information sessions don't know what they're up to. Our question is how we can solve that problem. I didn't hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u36	The solution has been sent to the Chamber, because I have an agreement with the NAM for the payment of the whole new approach. The room has that part, too. It will be clear that there should be no problem with funding by the NAM at the back of this operation. Anything necessary for safety must be paid. Before that, I had very extensive negotiations with the NAM. It's all in writing. The mutual contractual obligations are in the Chamber. I fully agree with Mr Sienot. It cannot be that we have to block security for budgetary reasons. That what is necessary for safety should be available. Those aren't fixed budgets. If there's more to it, there's more to it. If we need more, we need more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u38	I have motions. The motion in part No. 49 contains a lot of what I like, but one thing I can't guarantee. What I like is sufficient inspection capacity and funding. They're working on it. The organisation is also recruited. I just talked about the funding. However, the fact that residents who have already had an inspection do not have to wait again for a few thousands of people to do so would mean that I would go directly against the Mining Council's recommendation and not set up the most risky homes, but perhaps homes with which nothing is going on at all. I can't do that. I've become systemically responsible for security in the area. I'm supposed to deliver and SodM will see to it. SodM rightly insists that the most risky homes are done first. There may be homes that have already been inspected. Then we'll have to get those in the front. That's clear. Only because of that last rule can I unfortunately not give this motion judgment Chamber. I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mrs. Beckerman, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u40	What exactly is that about? Is it simply a shortage of human power? Surely we can also do the people who have already gone through such a whole journey and the most unsafe homes at the same time, if there is enough human force to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u41	The assumption that recovery, construction and reinforcement capacity in the region is infinite has been rejected over the past three years. We were 95% behind schedule. We need to set priorities; that is very clear the Mining Council opinion. I didn't think of that, and I shouldn't think of that. I'm just supposed to live for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u43	The fact that it has become a huge gang in recent years is well known. But even now, it's going to end in a drama. Shouldn't you do everything you can to get the capacity to "in the region" you say from across the country to make sure that as many safe homes as possible arrive in Groningen as quickly as possible? Shouldn't you be working on that? For the debate that we had in January the first week after the recess, would you like to inform us about how you are going to ensure that as much as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u44	There has already been extensive communication on this, but we can do that again in the debate. The NCG has a lot of things with a market approach, has used all kinds of ways to get sufficient capacity there. There is also a reflection on more standardisation that is included in the Mining Advisory Committee so that work can be speeded up. In Mrs Beckerman's plea, I cannot make a hole, but this motion goes against it and I have just advised against it. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 50 on the new construction scheme calls on the government to urgently ensure that a new scheme is put in place to compensate for the additional costs of earthquake-proof construction by the NAM. I can't help but think this is logical. I'll leave this motion judgment room. This is a justified appeal, because the current new building regime is coming to an end and there should be no gaps. I agree with Mrs Beckerman and support her call. Mr Van der Lee wants a well-thought-out exit plan to come to the Chamber. I'll leave the motion to part no. 51 also Judgment Room. Anyway, before the summer of 2019, that switch-off plan must be there. I'll send that to the Chamber in accordance with this motion, which I'll leave to judge Chamber. I hope the motion at No. Mr Sienot's 52 on validating the estimation of GTS is not a vote of no confidence towards GTS. But if this is the wish of the Chamber, then I am prepared to organise that validation. I'll leave the motion judgment room. Not that I'm necessarily recommending her to you, because I think GTS can do his job. But if there's any suspicion of that, I'd like to take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you. Mr. Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u46	I was mentioned a few times, as if I were suspicious. That's out of the question. It is true that there should be no more gas than is necessary and no less. It is good that, in order to guarantee all objectivity, there is an external check so that there can be no fuss about it. Then I'd like to confirm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you. Then we've come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-10.u48	We shall vote on the motions tabled tomorrow. I thank the Minister.
