ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the news that a Syrian IS fighter is free in the Netherlands. I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. What is the situation with the Syrian terrorist who last autumn was seen in De Balie debate centre in Amsterdam by his victims and obtained a residence permit on the basis of a false passport? Last November, the Minister said that once the investigation into De Balie Terrorist, as we call him, had been completed, a letter would be sent to reflect the state of affairs surrounding this Muslim terrorist. That letter, which was announced seven months ago, is still not here. How much longer is the investigation gonna take? The Minister should clarify this at the beginning of his contribution. Because, President, it was this terrorist himself who, right after the news about his presence here in the Netherlands, in Amsterdam, cast doubt on his presence. He also cast doubt on his past and his intentions. He was generously assisted by Nieuwsuur and the Volkskrant. The Minister always uses the mantra of the individual case with pleasure in order not to have to clarify the status of terrorists present in the Netherlands. But we already have the De Balie Terrorist, the HaCarmel terrorist, returners, convicted terrorists who are being helped by the government to the Netherlands from Turkey and are threatening to walk around freely here, we have at least 30 asylum seekers with or without valid Syrian identity papers, a sleeping IS cell in Nijmegen and jihadists such as Victor Droste and Marouane Boulahyani. And in all cases, the Minister's answer is "I do not rule on individual cases" while we are dealing with a network. I'd like the Minister's clarity. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister how an ordinary Dutchman, an ordinary Dutchman at home, can still feel safe. Yeah, maybe home. But on the outside, knowing that the police and the army have been busy for four weeks tying up eavesdropping to keep large parts of the cities quiet? Just across the border in Germany, no teenage girl is safe from the murder of Merkel's "wir purchase ties'ers." Our borders are open, so they might as well walk here. This morning, the newspaper said that this perpetrator of Viersen might be in the Netherlands. In a peaceful village like Noordwijk, Ramadan needs an emergency regulation to preserve security. Where is the police, where is our army, where is the minister with clarity and where is the minister with measures that actually do anything? As far as the De Balie Terrorist is concerned, why wasn't this man detained or deported? If things go wrong with him later, we know: this man was known by the services and now also in all living rooms in the Netherlands. Why isn't this man in jail? Why hasn't he been deported to Syria after being detained? Mr President, I will conclude. Let me make one thing clear: the cases I have named are just the cases that the press gets. That is why I am once again pleading here, and we, as PVV, will always do so, for the administrative detention of potential terrorists, also known as preventive detention. And I am really done now, Mr President-in-Office. We will have to control our borders ourselves, not allow anyone who wants asylum or comes from an Islamic country. We have to leave Syrians there, we have to lock up jihadists and denaturalize and expel them after their punishment, and we have to de-Islamicize the Netherlands in order to remove the base from the terror; our country is in need of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Minister does not want to go into this individual case, so we need to ask about the wider policy. That is why three specific questions. I'm going back to the past first. In 2016, the Ministry of Security and Justice, now Justice and Security, issued a report on the screening of asylum seekers: it was inadequate and it was not possible to guarantee that those who had come in had been properly checked. They promised to get better. My question now is: have we dealt with the security risks that ran at that time? How do we know that there are no potential terrorists and jihadgoers among the people who entered? My second question is: can the Minister at all guarantee that there are no former ISIS people here that we do not have in view? Can he guarantee that or not? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. In De Balie's case, it was bystanders who recognized someone as an old-IS warrior, but this is not a unique case. It has happened more often that on the basis of messages on Facebook, e.g. posts in which violence was glorified, things came up that couldn't stand the light of day. It's not just about ISs. This also occurs in 1F cases, for example. My question is: is this kind of finding, for example from our own Syrian community, being properly combined? Where can these people go? Apparently, it's very useful information. That information seems to me to be necessary for the security services. A number of years ago, we drew attention to this, but I do not feel that we have secured it in a good way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u6	Mr. Chairman. If you have fled Syria from the all-destructive terror of IS and you suddenly see someone in the room who you recognize as an IS warrior during a meeting with fellow fates, you are terrified. After a report was published in the Volkskrant, the concerns among Dutch people also grew hand in hand. De Volkskrant reported that, according to the security services, this would be a tough case and that it would be someone who would have come to the Netherlands in 2014 using a stolen blank passport. We don't know if it's all true. Nieuwsuur was able to report that the person concerned only confessed to coming to the Netherlands with a false passport. For the rest, that person denies everything. That's all we have. However, the Minister has sent a letter in which he addresses this issue with "I understand that" and a general explanation of what we are doing in our country against people who are or may be more war criminals. The Minister also explains what actions could not be taken. All in all, that feels uncomfortable. After all, the unrest is understandable. Surely it can't be that someone with a stolen passport can move freely here? Surely it is not possible for an IS terrorist to appear at a meeting of refugees from Syria? Mr. Chairman. Whether they are here through the asylum procedure or as a returnee, IS-jihadists should not be given opportunities here. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Minister must therefore say in word and deed that he is doing everything he can to get these dangerous types off the streets and wherever possible out of our country. They must be arrested on the basis of very serious facts if the evidence is available, but they must also be arrested for minor facts such as travel with a false passport if the evidence for those serious facts is not available or is not yet complete. The Minister rightly points out that the Supreme Court has twice declared the prosecution inadmissible in cases in which the prosecutor wanted to prosecute someone for traveling on a forged passport, while the asylum procedure had not been completed. That is certainly complicated, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he will take action in order to be able to act at least if there is a serious suspicion that someone is a dangerous war criminal. Surely it must be possible to distinguish between a normal asylum seeker and dangerous IS fighter? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Can and will he take concrete action? And how is he going to do that? Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about what to do when an IS fighter is in our country, but we should actually talk about how to prevent these people from coming to our country. For travellers, the Chamber has already passed a law to that effect. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to make active use of his powers, in view of the problem of the possible return of IS fighters, to take away the Dutch identity of outbound IS fighters on the basis of the Law to withdraw Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. That has happened a few times in the past, but lately it has been a bit quiet on that front. I would like the Minister to give me an undertaking that in the short term he will look at the files of all known travellers on the possibility of withdrawing nationality, so that we can effectively prevent IS-goers from returning to the Netherlands or that we could be obliged to provide consular assistance for such an undesirable return journey. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr. Chairman. It is a somewhat uncomfortable debate, because the Minister has said earlier that he cannot deal with individual cases, and we have already paid attention to them in the budgetary debates. This brings me to a number of questions that have been raised. We need constant attention to this violent situation. Firstly, we want to know about police security at events such as those we are talking about here today. I understand that the regular police protection regime was followed, namely: we are not going there, because it does not seem necessary. But that does surprise me anyway, and I want to know if that method has been looked at by now. Has this incident given rise to policy tightening? Was this also seriously linked to the AIVD, or do all local communities deal with it in their own way? Mr. Chairman. The VVD also asked about it, but we also want to know more about the returners or the people who may be planning to return to the Netherlands. In the Threat Picture of Terrorism, it may be about 50 people who have returned, but there are 160 more there. Are there also people in these total numbers who have come to the Netherlands with the flow of refugees, but may not actually belong to the Netherlands, who do not return to the Netherlands, but, for example, come from another European country with the flow to the Netherlands? Do we have a figure of that? Do we know approximately how many people we're talking about? We know that when they are in the Netherlands and come from this area, we can hardly send them back. We want to know what we can do with that, and whether these people can be returned to the country they are more involved with. That is also a solution that we need to talk about. We also want to know how many people have already lost their Dutch citizenship and how the Minister ensures that this happens more often. Then I come to one point that we haven't talked about in the Chamber. That is the fact that IS-goers could report to a consulate and then be escorted to the Netherlands to be tried here. As far as we are concerned, it is very important that the consulate is well prepared for this. That means they're gonna shake them up for information before they get one finger of help. What can the Minister indicate on that point? It cannot be that we become a kind of facilitation agency for people to return to the Netherlands. I think they'll have to say everything before we can and will help them. They'll have to be interrogated on the spot. Then we'll know what's going on. We know we can barely get any information on what someone did in an area. On this point, too, the coalition agreement states that we want to know how the NGOs in these regions are all working together. What kind of information do they collect about people? Has there been any progress on the intention to cooperate with independent international organisations to ensure that evidence against IS fighters can be collected? That is important; otherwise we will be powerless when we can bring them to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u9	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The reason for this debate is the fact that an IS warrior was free in Amsterdam and could go to a meeting in De Balie unhindered. There he was recognized by other Syrians, members of the civilian collective Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently. The fear and anger of these people about this very unwanted encounter I can truly imagine very vividly. But there is also wider unrest, namely about whether the government has a good view of IS fighters in the Netherlands. Mrs. Kuik asked about that, too. According to the Minister, IS fighters, whether they are Dutch or not, are closely monitored in the Netherlands. But I'd like to have some more information on that. Is there a surveillance plan per individual? Is there therefore sufficient human strength to do what needs to be done? That's a big concern of GroenLinks. We are also wondering whether there is an urgent need for reinforcement, because the number of people to be watched is going to increase, Mrs Van To..., Mrs Van Tongeren also referred to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u11	Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u12	Mrs Van Toorenburg, I was thinking: I must correct myself. This is the second time I've done this. The third time, I'll buy you licorice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u13	It's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u14	It's in the Acts. Let's hope that doesn't happen. I'll make my life better. Mrs Van Toorenburg also said that at the moment some 50 people have returned, but that new people are likely to return, people who are more dangerous, who have fought longer, have been longer in the IS area and are often more ideologically hardened. As GroenLinks, we do not live on the assumption that the world will become safer if the Netherlands does not take responsibility for people coming from the Netherlands. However, we are committed to ensuring that people are prosecuted and monitored. That is where we have concerns. Does the Minister guarantee that there's enough capacity to keep an eye on these people? Mr. Chairman. What about Dutch Syrians who are convicted in other countries? The colleague of the PVV referred to this as well. There is now a specific case: a Dutchman has been convicted in Turkey and he can wait for his appeal in the Netherlands. Are people going to serve their time in the Netherlands? What is the responsibility of the Netherlands for these people? Why could this person be convicted in Turkey but not in the Netherlands? Finally, Mr President, I have previously drawn attention to strengthening our rule of law. It was about the need to stimulate the public debate to de-escalate tension, as De Balie does. I indicated that it is extremely difficult for some debate centres to offer human rights activists a stage when it takes so much effort and money to get security around. In April, I adopted a motion asking the Minister to take stock of the problems in consultation with representatives of debate centres. Has he done that by now? If so, what is the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u16	Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently. That is a group of people who have done special work under special circumstances. When Raqqa came into the hands of IS, they tried to counter propaganda by showing images, by making a different sound, by showing reality. People fled to Germany, where they tried to continue their journalistic work from safehouses. They've lost people. Friends and family were murdered, beheaded. And then a meeting will be held in De Balie in Amsterdam in September last year. Particularly remarkable and unpleasant is it when you see one of your IS fighters there. They're terrified of those people. How did that happen? This man, this IS warrior, has come to the Netherlands with false papers. I cannot imagine that a warrior from the IS area who lives in the Netherlands with false papers cannot be dealt with criminally. Is that right? Can the Minister confirm that? Wouldn't that be remarkable? Something else may also be the case: such a person is being watched to see what activities are being carried out and what networks there are. That can be a means for the AIVD to see if bigger fish can be caught, to see what's going on, to keep the finger on the wrist. But if that's the case, then it's insane that if this idiot goes to such a meeting as Raqqa's Being Slaughtered Silently, it's not gonna happen. So how's that? And what can we do? Previously, as a SP, we have made a plan for preventive deradicalisation. If someone is a recognized warrior, comes from IS territory, then of course it cannot be that he is simply admitted into our society. Then we need to see what kind of person that is. Can the Minister explain exactly what will happen if we find such an IS fighter in our country? Can the Minister also state what is being done in advance to ensure that people do not enter our country unprecedentedly? What happens in a general sense to such a person? And how can we prevent such a person from doing so in our country? I remember well that the AIVD and the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator in September 2015, when the large refugee flows came, said: these flows of refugees are not dangerous; they will never include IS fighters, because that is a strategy that IS will never use. Well, nothing has been further from the truth. Several very bloody attacks in Europe have been carried out by people who have come to Europe via refugee flows. Can the Minister confirm that this somewhat naive strategy is now over? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I shall now go to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u18	Mr President, thank you. The title of this debate gives a somewhat double feeling, especially since the Minister cannot comment on individual cases. Still, I'll use my time to say a few things about it. There are a number of assumptions in it, about the fact that he's Syrian and he's with ISIS. This is indeed a man with refugee status in the Netherlands, who has been screened by the services. So if it is not against any rule that he is free in the Netherlands, I ask the Minister. For let this be clear: D66 does not underestimate the threat of terrorists and IS fighters at all. Unfortunately, the threat of terrorism is still substantial in the Netherlands. But my party warns of the rhetoric of some parties in this Chamber, which is intended to talk people into fear. In this way, we will only allow terrorists to achieve their goal more: to sow fear and to control our lives and the political debate. D66 stands for an open but also resilient society. We defend our freedoms, precisely because terrorists want to attack them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u19	I am invited, because I know, of course, that D66 refers, among other things, to the Party for Freedom. If not, Mrs. Belhaj should say so, but I expect she means us. If a teenage girl is murdered, most likely by an asylum seeker, and several of these cases are known, and if the borders are open, are the Dutch afraid of the murder of such a teenage girl and of the perpetrator, who can walk around in the Netherlands? Or are they afraid of the rhetoric of parties like the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u20	You are placing here a statement that may not have to be opposed. Look, it's obvious that people can be scared. If there is a message in the newspaper or if there is a chance of an attack, then there is no political party in this Chamber that disputes that people find that fearful. But we are assuming the rule of law. This means that as a political party we feel that we should ultimately be able to refer to it. We must be able to ask the Minister if the rule of law is working properly. So people can be afraid of something that happens, but it's also obvious that people can be afraid of statements you make because you enlarge things. Following an incident and without knowing all the facts, you make generic statements about refugees and their danger. So you're right on both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u21	I can't get an answer to my question, but you're still trying to push the PVV into that corner by a side route. Of course, we don't fall for that. In 2014, we mentioned here the danger of asylum flows, in which IS terrorists would be in, on the basis of actual statements by officials from other countries. That's when the PVV wasn't laughed out of here. In fact, an EU MEP, I believe GroenLinks, said: it's all hysteria that they could be on those boats too. Now when I hear the contributions of other parties, as well as the contributions of D66, I think: well, we've made some progress. For some of the things Mrs Belhaj says here, they would have ratted us out three or four years ago. In other words, a number of parties are moving and also want us to be a little stricter. Now here's my question. D66 says: we are of the rule of law. But part of that rule of law is Mrs Belhaj herself, as a Member of Parliament. And a MP can initiate laws and try to change the rule of law a little, so that the Netherlands becomes safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u22	So that's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u23	When we come up with an answer to our initiative law to introduce administrative detention, is Mrs Belhaj prepared to support that law? Because she's the rule of law, isn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u24	Such an offer to support a PVV law, I would like to discuss it extensively with the group, because, of course, we do not get that opportunity very often. So I'll come back to that later. But assuming that you have to make new laws in a rule of law following incidents, I do not agree. The task of politics is to devise effective measures to spend enough money on our intelligence capabilities. We must also abide by the rules we have devised with each other. We must therefore trust that the Minister will be able to say something about such situations in a generic sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u26	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, we stand for an open and resilient society. We're defending our freedoms. In fact, I would like to move on to another subject that is related to this. I won't be talking about DOD. D66 likes to talk about effective anti-terrorism measures, such as the well-equipped provision of our services, the local approach to radicalisation and extremism, and a thorough, rapid screening of asylum seekers in order to identify potential terrorists. That is why I am taking the time to ask the Minister some questions about the screening of asylum seekers. Last year the inspection report was quite critical of this. Simple things like reading phones and translating Arabic texts during the first screening of refugees did not turn out to be self-evident at that time. And then I don't even talk about problems with simple things like the readability of the completed checklist. My question to the Minister is therefore whether these matters are now in order. My colleague, Kees Verhoeven, a sympathetic man, tabled a motion to this effect last year. He asked for the asylum procedure to start as soon as possible after the first identification of asylum seekers. My question is whether the Minister can explain how long the waiting period for the asylum procedure is at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u27	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u28	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This debate cost me the necessary head-breaking in preparation. The history of the whole I have not experienced so consciously; perhaps as a resident of the Netherlands, but that went a bit over me. But when I thought about this, my first thought was: do I read it right now? Can an IS warrior in the Netherlands just walk freely? Shouldn't someone like that be locked down or deported? Can you believe this? Another thought that also occurred to me was: maybe he's done his old life, he's converted, he's repented and he says he shouldn't do this anymore. But, yeah, if that's the case, why do you run as soon as you're recognized? For whosoever realizes that he has done wrong should also be prepared to pay for his deeds? I didn't get out of there, and I think that's because we only have shreds of information. Specifically, as far as I can tell, it is someone who fought for ISIS and was spotted in De Balie in Amsterdam last fall. In the meantime, we're about nine months away. We're just very curious what happened in that intervening time. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. How can it happen that IS fighters are free here in the Netherlands? Have all the measures been taken to prevent one IS fighter from wandering around here without being watched by the AIVD? What is the situation with regard to punishing people who have travelled to terrorist territory? I thought there were plenty of opportunities to deal with these people. How is it possible that someone like that is just out there? Before the summer recess, will the Minister come forward with a bill to criminalise residence in an area under the control of terrorists? I believe there is a commitment to this. Finally. The letter of 29 January states that, in principle, the prosecution does not pursue cases in which a foreigner holds a false or forged travel document as long as there is no rejection of an asylum application. But what about our last question, Mr President, is that not going to happen at a later stage? So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. That was the first term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a short or a long suspension. I'm looking at the minister. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 5:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u30	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u31	Mr. Chairman. The reason to hold this thirty-member debate is the announcement last year that a Syrian ISIS fighter would have been recognized at a meeting in De Balie in Amsterdam. We've talked about this a few times before, your room and I. It has already been said by a number of your Members: I cannot deal with such a specific case. In reply to Mr De Graaf's question, I can say something about it, but not about the case itself. But I think it would be a good idea to discuss the issue again here today, precisely in order to establish and underline the importance of the integrated approach to terrorism. The main issue remains the early alert and exchange of information. Much of the capacity is also deployed on this. I shall come back to this later on in connection with the questions put by Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Buitenweg, but I think that is really the most important point. Only if the parties concerned share relevant information on an individual as early as possible can an integral and adequate assessment be made of the risks posed by that individual. That is really what I, as a minister, am committed to on this issue. Mr. Chairman. I'll go to the questions that have been asked. I have focused as much on the subject as possible. First of all, I come to Mr De Graaf's question about the investigation of the incident at De Balie. I cannot go into individual cases. The investigation is still ongoing in that case. When I say it's running, I really mean that there's another serious investigation going on, so not that it's parked or anything. No, on the contrary. I would like to assure you that I will inform your Chamber further. I have done that before, and I will do it again today, as soon as there are very clear developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u32	I understand the Minister can't go into individual cases that are still under investigation. But I do note that the investigation has been going on for a very long time. So the first question is, where's the good guy? Is he still out there? I think that's a question you're allowed to ask as a Member of Parliament. I also think that a question you may and should ask as a Member of Parliament, more generally: how is it possible that such a person walks around in this country and walks into De Balie? Isn't that monitored? Isn't he being watched? Why isn't he being held? How is it generally possible that these kinds of people are walking around here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u33	I have already explained this in the previous debates, but also in a letter to your Chamber. I have also explained that, in this case, the services are also monitoring people who pose a potential security risk, just to use an old Dutch expression, and that, as I have checked in the discussions with the National Coordinator on Terrorism and Security, the services are doing their job here too. We have also discussed this before, but I would like to emphasise that, in this particular situation, there has been contact between the debate centre and the local triangle on security and surveillance. Because this is a local issue, which the NCTV is involved in in the context of safety advice, in the context of Mrs Buitenweg's questions. This happened a few months later, for example, around the talk/reading of the French editor of Charlie Hebdo. So he's always involved. The risks are considered by the services. That's exactly what happened here. If you are asking about the current status, I say that you must be patient with me that we cannot go into that now, because that research is going seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u34	No, of course. The AIVD must do its best. The National Coordinator on Counterterrorism must do its best. The Minister must do his best. The mayor of Amsterdam must do his best. The police have to do their best. The D.A. has to do his best. But he was there anyway. The man was there anyway, and I think that as a Member of Parliament, I can ask if this man can, at similar meetings, go back in the same way at this time. I think that is a very logical question to ask as a Member of Parliament. It is also a very general question which the Minister can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u35	What I can answer is whether those cases that are clearly classified by the services as a risk... I told you in my introduction that cooperation and exchange of information is very important here in order to get an idea of what is at stake. I said that, given their backgrounds, the services would focus on the people who would be a potential risk in view of their past. Whether someone can go somewhere in a concrete case, does not have to take into account the observation by the services; that is one. Two. Then I come to the point that it is ultimately also a decision of the local triangle, partly on the advice of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u36	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u37	Thank you. Thank you also to Mr Van Raak, because now I can get to the question I actually had. The Minister says something crucial in his response. He even repeats that at the end: it's a local matter. No, this is an international matter. This man came from Syria with a fake passport and got a status here. He can not only sit in a debate centre in Amsterdam, but also in Woerden, Winschoten, The Hague or any other place in the Netherlands. So it's a local matter in as many places as possible, but besides that, our boundaries are open. That is why these terrorists can walk back and forth so easily, because everyone loves Schengen so much. So it's not a local case. Can the Minister at least clarify how this man is being watched? Because the people at home don't want to be confronted with this jerk on the street, because that threatens their safety. That's what's going on. That's what people want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u38	What you are now saying is mainly questions relating to how we deal with screening, as Mrs Kuik asked. What about the fake passports? That is indeed a question of admission policy. That's one element. Soon I will answer a number of questions that you and others have asked systematically. The second aspect, another category of questions, concerns the question of having a look at returners. I'll come back to that in a moment. Another thing is, of course, what you and Mr Van Raak have asked: what does the government generally do when an IS fighter is found in the Netherlands? Because, of course, that's what it's about when you're talking about identifying risks. If a person is found in the Netherlands who was demonstrably part of ISIS and thus poses a threat to national security, appropriate measures will be taken. It looks at criminal law measures and, of course, at what measures can be taken under foreign law. For all Dutch returners, there is a criminal investigation against them and an assessment is made of the threat. They are also indeed being observed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u39	Thank you for the answer that was not an answer. We've known the Minister for over six months now. What he always does when he doesn't want to answer is to name the run-up to the question as the main item and then briefly comment on it. Then part two of his line of defence is to say 'I'll come back to that later categorized'. Then he cuts an answer that he doesn't want to give in pieces, so there's nothing left. Thirdly, he refers to something general, which he has already written in seven letters. That's not what I asked. I want Jan, Henk, Gerrit, Marlies and Marloes to feel safe on the street and not face that jerk, as happened in De Balie with those people who fled Syria. I want no one in the Netherlands to have a chance to face this man, because he is dangerous. If he was dangerous there, he could also become dangerous as soon as he feels like it, for he also carries Koran 8:60 in his back pocket. I'd like an answer to that. I want the Minister to make it clear that the people are safe in the Netherlands and I do not want a cut-up answer at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u40	A question has also been asked, which came from the VVD, namely: how is the Minister going to make a concrete effort to deal with people who are seriously suspected of war crimes? Special attention has been paid to the detection and trial of perpetrators of international crimes from the International Crimes Cluster of the National Security Office. That works with the International Crimes Team of the National Investigation Service. They investigate these kinds of suspects of international crime, wherever they are and regardless of their nationality. That Team International Crimes obtains information through various channels regarding potential suspects of international crimes in relation to ISIS. They're also getting information from civilians. I would also like to emphasise this in connection with the questions, I believe, by Mrs Kuik, about Syrian citizens on Facebook: ICT also plays an important role. This has already led to a number of war criminals being convicted by the Dutch judge. I would like to stress that this special organizational structure gives good and focused attention to the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of international crime. Mr President, I would like to say through you to Mr De Graaf that in his case it is really not about cutting questions into pieces or anything like that. I want to make it very clear that the emphasis is on getting people like this in the picture, tracking them down or... Following and, as soon as we have sufficient evidence to do so, they are also really criminal and, where possible, also foreign law, dealing with the crimes committed by them. In this context, Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked: could it be that an IS warrior walks freely without the AIVD watching him? The investigation services and the intelligence and security services are making every effort to identify every IS fighter in the Netherlands in good time. If a person is found in the Netherlands who was demonstrably part of ISIS and thus constitutes a threat to national security, appropriate measures will be taken, both criminal and foreign law. Mrs. Kuik asked: Are all the former ISIS people in the picture? Of course, the services are all very alert to people who may pose a threat to national security from an ISIS past. All these people also consider the appropriate measures, including during the period when the criminal or alien evidence against the person concerned is not yet complete. There is just a constant balance to be made to ensure that we get and keep these people in close touch, as Mrs Kuik called it. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: are there non-Dutch persons among the total number of returners? There are about 300 extravagants and 50 returners. All non-Dutch applicants for asylum come into a migration flow, and within the asylum process, all organisations concerned are alert to signals that may affect national security. Within the executive organisations of the alien chain, the reporting structure has now also been set up for such signals. I would like to come back to what Mrs Kuik asked about signals from the Syrian community. Those signals may be reported to the national police or, in the case of a stranger, to the IND information node. They are also taken seriously and taken into account in the actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u41	My question was aimed at returners, at least people who return to Europe and eventually come to the Netherlands, but who, for example, come from Belgium or France or somewhere else. Will it be dealt with directly by transferring them to those countries? Or isn't it? That's what I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u42	If people who return from other countries and come to the Netherlands are suspected of having an ISIS history, may I describe it as such? If so, the services will look into it. The cooperation will then assess whether there is sufficient ground for arrest and prosecution in the Netherlands. There are also situations imaginable, but I should work out that in the end people are sent back to where they come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u43	I would like to know more specifically how many people are coming to the Netherlands who may be extraditable to another country. I understand that the Minister does not now have a concrete answer to this, because the debate was about a specific situation. It is unclear to me whether among those 160 people who might return to the Netherlands or at least among those 50 people there are people who should ultimately have no place at all in the Netherlands. That is independent of the fact that they all need to be denaturalized, but that is still quite a tour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u44	It is indeed a question of detail. I suggest I write a letter about that. I'm sure there's one or two more points I think it's good to have those...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u45	So you would like to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u46	It's about details that are partly in the Secretary of State's wallet, so I have to be careful with that. On this point, I agree that we will return to that in a letter. Mrs Buitenweg asked: why are people not convicted in the Netherlands but in Turkey; can they then serve their sentence in the Netherlands? As I informed you in the letter of 28 May, will the prosecutor and my ministry, in consultation with the authorities of the country in which the person is staying, consider whether persecution by the authorities of that country or persecution by the Netherlands is the main reason? If the latter is chosen, this can be accompanied by a request for extradition to the Netherlands and/or readmission of the criminal proceedings of the other country. If suspects return to the Netherlands, they will be detained, as is the case with all recognized extra-travelers, after which the options will be thoroughly examined, taking into account all facts and circumstances. The D.A. will start a prosecution as soon as possible. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked about the bill on criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. That is now ahead of the Council of State. I expect the opinion of the Council of State in the near future. Mr Arno Rutte asked a question about the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. He asked if I am prepared to pursue this policy actively, as was done by my predecessor. I say yes to this. I'm actively working on that, too. There are a number of dossiers, but I should almost say that these are individual matters; I cannot say anything about them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u47	I have every sympathy for the latter, because I do not expect the Minister to share files with us here. But the law on the basis of which he can withdraw the Dutch citizenship, looks precisely at those cases he also mentioned. I'm just looking for the term. It's about "recognized extravagants." We know from those people that they have traveled to a jihadist area. Can I interpret the Minister's commitment in such a way that these people's files are being lightened and that it is being considered whether the Dutch can be withdrawn from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u48	For all those of dual nationality who have proven terrorist crimes within the ISIS framework, it is carefully considered whether the measure of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship can be used, if possible. I'm actively watching that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u49	I do not want to go into too much detail, but the law gives a little more possibilities: once someone joins a group that appears on a public list of terrorist organisations, such as IS and Al-Qaeda. People do not have to have committed terrorist acts, even though we do not have to be naive. Is that category being considered now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u51	Okay. If that is the case, I ask whether there is a time limit within which the list has been screened and decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u52	It's hard to say. In December, for two people who were currently living in Rotterdam, we started the procedure of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. At that time, I indicated that there are quite a few stages to this procedure. I can only say that I have a very active policy on this with my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u53	Minister Grapperhaus was in a previous life...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u54	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u55	He was then Mr.Grapperhaus and in that life he was critical of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship without criminal conviction. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that he has not yet made use of the opportunity to withdraw from the Netherlands without criminal conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u56	I really should take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u57	Maybe you can come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u58	I can come back to that in second place. Mrs Buitenweg refers, moreover, to an opinion that dates back to the time when this law was passed by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u59	But even then, Mr. Grapperhaus had quite interesting views.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u61	I just want to know if the possibility of doing this has already been used without criminal conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u62	Your question will be answered in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u63	I will come back to that in second place, because I have to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u65	Then the returners. Mrs Buitenweg has asked whether this is well recognised. Mrs Van Toorenburg has also asked a question about this. Look, on those returners, on those Dutch jihad fighters or at least people who share Dutch nationality, the services are very and continuously alert. They are included in the Schengen Information System. A European arrest warrant has been issued against all known extraditors. There is intensive European cooperation in this area in areas such as information exchange and detection, for example through the Schengen Information System, but also in Frontex and Europol. Operational information is also shared and analysed within the EU Counter Terrorism Group. In response to Mrs Van Toorenburg, I say that all the available resources are being used by all partners to identify and eliminate the risks that these returners may pose. They're the subject of intelligence and criminal investigation. Any known returnee shall be detained for interrogation upon return. The State's Attorney's Office is really going to prosecute wherever possible. I mentioned it earlier, but in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, I would like to emphasise once again that the police and AIVD make an assessment of the threat with each known returner. They are alert and keep these people in focus where necessary. They are also discussed in a multidisciplinary case consultation where the most effective intervention strategy is defined with the aim of reducing the threat a person may pose. I would like to stress once again that this approach does not distinguish between male and female returners. There is always a question of customization. A number of questions have also been asked concerning the asylum dossier. I'll answer that. Perhaps a letter from the Secretary of State will be sent at one point, but I think I can answer most of the questions. A big question was whether the whole asylum screening process and everything around it have improved. At the end of 2016, it was indeed concluded by the inspection of my ministry that the identification and registration process was in order, after previous doubts. That I&R system is one of the links within the alien and national security chain to which relevant organisations such as police, KMar, IND, COA and AIVD contribute. In that process, all baggage is checked, data carriers are subject to a quick scan and, if necessary, fully read out, fingerprints and identity are checked in all relevant systems and people are heard in addition if necessary. There are permanent police intelligence staff present at all locations who assess the information and take targeted action on it. The expertise available, for example, for translating Arabic texts is available. I thought that Mrs Kuiken or Mrs Belhaj came to that point, but, as for other parties, scarce, we have to admit. The police are committed to strengthening expertise in that process. Organisations concerned also work closely with the NCTV, the National Coordinator on Combating Terrorism and Security, to further improve cooperation. That is an ongoing process. You should always see this in the light of ever-changing modus operandi of ISIS and related organisations. In any case, the commitment of all those involved is aimed at preventing the abuse of this asylum procedure by terrorists and other criminals. D66 asked whether it would be possible to start more quickly with the substantive examination of the asylum procedure and to shorten the waiting time. That is a question that is in line with the ambition of the coalition agreement. Before the summer recess, your Chamber will receive a letter from the Secretary of State indicating the steps it will take to achieve flexibilisation. Shortening the lead times is an important part of this. In addition, I would like to stress that the screening by the IND takes place in principle 14 days after the asylum seeker's notification. Any signals can therefore be identified at an early stage. Mr Van Raak asked: how can it be that the asylum procedure has been used, while in 2015 my predecessor, I said, did not abuse the asylum procedure? The possibility for ISIS members or persons linked to other terrorist organisations to come to the Netherlands via the flow of refugees has been explicitly taken into account since the summer of 2015. Since spring 2015, it is considered conceivable that persons with terrorist motives use the flow of refugees to Europe. That's also in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, DTN, number 39. On the basis of this imagination, the cabinet is always alert and measures have already been taken, such as measures to combat residence fraud, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. Then about the screening. Mrs. Kuik had a question about that. In the same Threat Image Terrorism Netherlands, but then number 46, it says that the security organisations are alert to signals of misuse of migration flows and asylum procedures by the jihadists. But of course it cannot be excluded that jihadists try to enter Europe through these migratory flows and try to abuse those procedures. I have already indicated enough how alert all the organisations involved in that asylum process are: IND, COA, DT&V. There is also a reporting structure for such signals. During the identification and registration of asylum applications, police and Royal Marechaussee are very vigilant on possible signals that may affect national security. They also pass that on to the intelligence and security services or they intervene themselves. I've already indicated where the IND is going to do that whole screening. I'm not gonna repeat that. By the way, signals can also be picked up later in the process. They will then be passed on to the intelligence and security services to see if these signals require another intervention. Then there were questions about the international evidence garage. Travellers are included in the Schengen Information System and there is intensive European cooperation in areas such as information exchange. For the question of how to engage in cooperation with NGOs to investigate abuses committed in Syria and Iraq, I have to refer to my foreign minister. But I admit that I will at least bring this question to his attention. I'm almost through, Mr. Chairman. I had another question about stolen passports. I think Mr Van Raak put it. The presentation of a false or stolen passport is more common in the asylum procedure. That in itself is not assessed as a safety risk. It does not need to affect the outcome of the asylum procedure or the residence status of the person concerned. We have discussed the question of why in detail in the relevant AO. In principle, the prosecution shall not pursue cases where a foreigner holds a false or forged travel document, as long as there is no irrevocable and negative ruling on the first application for asylum. This is based on judgments of the Supreme Court of 2009 and 2012. Once a foreigner's application for asylum with false or falsified travel documents has been irrevocably and remissly decided, the prosecution may still prosecute if appropriate at that time. Then I had a question from Mrs Buitenweg: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion which calls for a discussion with the representatives of the debate centres? On 24 April, I undertook to implement that motion. Before that, I had to get in touch with OCW's colleague, because this is her primary area. But OCW has indicated that it does not have a direct relationship with the debate centres, as subsidies for these institutions, so-called stages, run through the municipality. Since I do think it is important to start working with the spirit, I have decided to start the discussion myself from this ministry in the foreseeable future. Finally, I would like to stress that, in the first instance, discussion centres must make an assessment of the security measures they want. If there is an event with a particular risk at which someone comes to speak with a particular risk profile, it is reported to the local police. That's the procedure. It makes an assessment of threat and risk, and may take additional measures. These additional measures may be taken under local authority. The local chief officer deals in principle with the persons and the mayor about the event as such. If a person who is included in the so-called Rijksdomain comes to speak, the NCTV can advise additional measures because of its special responsibility. Upon the arrival of a foreign speaker announced by a foreign government to the Dutch government, the NCTV can also check whether that person should not be included in the Rijksdomain. I have also told you that NCTV advises on such decisions. Madam President, I believe that I have answered all the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u66	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? With Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV in any case. Then I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I open my front door and my back door at home, and my lovely wife and beautiful daughters start complaining at some point that it's getting a little uncomfortable in the house anyway, because it's a little crowded and the fridge is getting eaten all the time, then I can say: come on guys, those people are all welcome, and fun and nice, and more people need to join. But of course there are some assholes among them, as I have just said in a neat way with the interrupting microphone. Then there comes a point or no return. No, that's not Dutch: then there's a point where you can't go back. That's where we are now. Many people in the Netherlands feel like people in a house where the front and back doors are always open. The Minister could have left three quarters of the answer to all the questions if he had simply promised to ensure that he closed the borders, asylum migration and people from Islamic countries. There's a lot of work to be done with that. Mr. Chairman. I have emotion, because... Not emotion, a motion. The "n" might not have been clear. He has to do with the fact that this man is very likely still in the Netherlands. That's why I want a ruling from the Chamber. In reply to the motion, the Minister will have to explain why this is not possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to arrest the terrorist who showed up in De Balie debate centre in Amsterdam last autumn and then to deport him to Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-449]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u68	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I understand that, in individual cases, he cannot give one hundred percent of the text and explanation here either. That's always uncomfortable. I welcome the way in which the Minister points out that the International Crimes Team is getting extra attention and is also full of this kind of thing. It's still very uncomfortable that you're obviously allowed to come in here with a fake passport and no one can touch you. I've also seen the verdict of the Supreme Court. I will dive in a little further myself to see if we shouldn't be hung up on laws and regulations. Because it feels incredibly unfair. Finally, Mr President. The Minister has made a firm commitment that he will light the files of all known jihadgoers and see if he can take them away from the Dutch. I say again in the second term, just to be sure: the law on which it can be based does not require these people to be convicted. There are other standards for this; this is also explicitly part of this law. Will the Minister undertake that joining a terrorist organisation as a ground can be sufficient for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like more specific information on what the Minister has promised, namely a letter about those who return but may be from another country. I would also like to explain in the letter what exactly is going on with the cooperation between these NGOs to gather evidence. The minister said he wants to come back to that, but I want that to be included in the letter. I would also like to make it clear in that letter what we do when someone reports to a consulate. Because that question hasn't really been answered either, I think. I think it is three very important points to which I would like a better answer. In addition, it is not completely clear what the situation was like in De Balie. It's been reported that the police worked the way they always work. I wonder if the M.O. has changed there now. That specific question is still open. For the rest, I am convinced that the services will do everything in their power to ensure that they keep people in view and that as many people as possible are deprived of Dutch citizenship, because they have distanced themselves from the Netherlands and so we distance ourselves from them. But it's important that we stay on top of it. I therefore think it is important for a letter to return to these three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u71	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I have three points. First of all, I regret the use of swear words in Parliament. It's been said a few times now, "dickhead." I don't think that's normal myself. Let me turn to the next point. A number of colleagues have said that they want to withdraw Dutch citizenship from as many people as possible. Mrs Van Toorenburg just said the same thing. But, of course, the problem is that other countries are not jumping to take over these IS fighters from us either. They want people to be deported to the country of origin, and that is us. Tomorrow we are talking about migration, and everyone here is right to say that the countries of origin must take their own people back. I would therefore like to say: what we do not want to happen, do not do so to anyone else, however difficult that may sometimes be. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister very much for implementing my motion. He's not gonna do that in consultation with OCW, he's gonna do it himself. Maybe he can include the Culture Council, but I appreciate that he is going to make these efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u73	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Raak. No, I didn't. I'm going to see Mrs. Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u74	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. We'd like to see the letter before the summer recess. We are also looking forward to the time when the investigation has been completed, so that we can decide on the basis of facts what is definitely going on rather than doing so prematurely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u75	Thank you. Finally, Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I can also be very brief. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have the impression that it is being seriously and firmly worked on. This applies not only to the issue we are now discussing, but also to all other issues. On the one hand, we welcome the answers we have received, but on the other hand, we are looking forward to the proposals that are coming to us, and certainly to the legislative proposal that is still coming our way. When I hear it like this, I assume that this will indeed come our way before the summer recess. If that doesn't work, then as soon as possible afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u78	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's question on police policy. I had it in my head that in my first term I had already taken it with another question, but I don't think I have yet. It was about the police's way of dealing with these kinds of events. The complicated thing is: now I come back to the fact that it is difficult for me to comment on this particular case. In general, I say that in a situation such as this as a learning organisation, the police also evaluate what has happened and learn from it. I would also like to emphasise that. It has not been said that this has happened, and we are moving forward in life. The police are a national organisation, which knows national procedures and practices. Of course, the security situation varies from city to city, but in any case, the police have also taken into account the progress of the Balie incident in the continuous improvement of working methods. About the contacts with the AIVD: threat and risk are continuously monitored by that intelligence and security service. Where necessary and where possible, this is also taken into account in the preparation of events and the like. But, of course, it also looks very closely at the trade-offs for that group that has been identified as a risk group because they are people who come back from that area or have otherwise been identified as having ISIS backgrounds. I would like to make it clear that 'ISIS backgrounds' are also a little wider, so as to make it clear to Mr Rutte that I am indeed taking up that somewhat broader legal definition. Then I come to Mrs Buitenweg's question. I myself have withdrawn the nationality of those who were irrevocably convicted, at least in which the decision was taken. I can say at this point, and I am not going to say that things are being prepared without that irrevocable conviction. There is also Mr De Graaf's motion on item No. 449. This calls on the government to arrest the terrorist who showed up in De Balie debate centre in Amsterdam last autumn and then to deport him to Syria. I must advise against that motion, for the reason that investigation is still ongoing. I have promised you that I will get back to you as soon as we have a clear answer. At that point, it makes sense to talk to each other about what we think of that now. But if I'm going to do that before then, then we're going to intervene in a case as a Chamber and as a government, and that's only counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u79	Mr De Graaf, on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u80	That's right, Mr. Chairman. That man doesn't belong here. That man belongs in Syria. He doesn't belong in the Netherlands. Again, he's from Syria, so he belongs in Syria. He's a terrorist, so he doesn't belong here. You can check that out. We've been waiting a long time for that investigation. That investigation and the results of it are coming up. But in the meantime, the man is in the Netherlands. We do not want that, and many Dutch people do not want that with me. What's to stop the Minister from doing other than the whole investigation? What rule, what treaty does the minister stop to just drop this man in Syria, where there are enough safe areas for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u81	A brief response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u82	A brief reaction. I guess I'm not going into the point of... I see I knotted my jacket wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u83	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u84	I apologize. I hope it was bearable what I had to say. But let's get back to Mr. De Graaf. I am not going to deal with the issue of whether or not to deport to Syria because areas there would or would not be safe. I stress that every case, including this one, must have its course of action, and that an investigation must be completed. Then it makes sense to inform the Chamber. That's fine, too. Then we can say: this is what came out of it. And then you can have a meaningful discussion with each other about measures that need to be taken. If you do things before you know exactly what has been established and what has been played, then you will only achieve counterproductive effects. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u85	Finally, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u86	...you'll never get me to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u88	The only counterproductive effect now achieved with the Minister's answer is that the Dutch are at risk because this guy is in the Netherlands. That is the counterproductive effect of doing nothing and waiting for an investigation. I think that Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights might be an obstacle. That was also an earlier reply from Minister Blok. But that will mean that we will not get rid of the other 30 Syrians with forged passports and that we will not get many other potential terrorists and real terrorists from the Netherlands either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u89	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u90	With this cabinet, the Netherlands remains unsafe and nothing changes at all. I am very sorry about this whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u91	Our services, which were already there for this cabinet, are indeed keeping an eye on people who are at risk, according to the policy I have set out in detail here. They have policies, information about exchanges and everything I've explained. I have a great deal of confidence in our services in this regard, and that is what matters when it comes to the safety of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u92	Does the Minister see that there is some tension between the position of the Netherlands on the one hand to evict people and to take their passports, to take away the Dutchmanship, and on the other hand the wish of the Netherlands that countries of origin always take responsibility for taking back the people who come from their country? Does he see that there is some tension between these two principles, which both embrace the Netherlands with enthusiasm?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u93	The Minister, please give me a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u94	You ask me for an honest answer: I do not see this tension. It is the responsibility of the individual. In fact, it has behaved in such a way that we, as a Dutch society, think that he should be taken away from the Netherlands. I think that's one thing. That's just the responsibility of that individual himself. Something very different is that as countries you make global agreements with each other and you have to be able to count on countries to take people back in certain situations. As far as I am concerned, this is independent of individual responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u95	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u96	It is not the individual responsibility, but the responsibility of a country. In the Kurdish camps where the Dutch are now, the commanders say: they are not people of ours, we do not want them. So let the Netherlands take responsibility and let us make sure that people go back to the country of origin. They must of course be properly screened, picked up and so on. The Netherlands must therefore assume its responsibility and ensure that society, as well as the world, is protected against these people. Is the Netherlands also a country of origin? And how does the Netherlands accept its responsibility, as the Netherlands also wants countries of origin to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u97	I think that if another country with its own state sovereignty says to the Netherlands 'here you have an obligation as a country of origin', the Netherlands will fulfil that obligation. But we are talking about sovereign states among ourselves. That's one. Two. You asked me if I saw tension. I explained to you why I don't see it. I believe, once again, that if an individual has somehow been involved in a terrorist organisation and as a result loses the Dutch identity, there is an individual responsibility of that person, who must account for it. I think that is separate from the debate on the countries of origin. So I don't see the tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-tweedekamer-26.u99	This brings us to the end of this debate. The motion tabled by Mr De Graaf will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament and I thank the staff.
