ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the Act on strengthening criminal law against terrorism, Section 34746. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security, as well as the people who are following this debate from the public gallery or via the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66 as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today is Valentine's Day, but it is also the sad day on which our former Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers died. He was the longest serving Prime Minister in three Cabinets from 1982 to 1994. He has meant a lot to the Netherlands. From this place, I wish his neighbors much strength with this loss. Mr. Chairman. No matter how unnatural it feels, the world goes on. Today, we are questioning new legislation to strengthen the fight against terrorism. Although the frequency of attacks seems to decrease, it remains important that the fight against terrorism is high on the agenda. It is good news that IS seems to be losing ground in the Middle East, but this can increase the risks throughout Europe and therefore also in the Netherlands. Effective counter-terrorism is central to D66, with security and freedom in balance. I've said that here before. This means, on the one hand, repressive measures, such as this legislative proposal, which extends the scope of criminal law and, on the other hand, preventive measures, such as the proper provision of our services, both financially and legally, the thorough screening of asylum seekers, and the local approach to radicalisation. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the repressive part of this cabinet's anti-terrorist policy. This legislative proposal strengthens the criminal justice instruments for tackling and punishing terrorism. At an earlier stage, this bill also included the criminalisation of residence in territory controlled by terrorist organisations. As far as D66 is concerned, it is a very sensible choice that the Minister has for the time being abandoned. The opinions of the Council of State and other advisory bodies were clear. They didn't lie about it. It is important that this far-reaching measure should be better supported and implemented. Mr. Chairman. This leaves six new anti-terrorist measures. First of all, extending the remand for terrorist suspects. Secondly, broadening the possibilities of extracting DNA from terrorist suspects. Thirdly, the introduction of a comprehensive reporting obligation for all those who are aware of terrorist offences. The fourth is the withdrawal of the right to vote in the event of an irrevocable conviction for terrorist offences. Five is identifying training and financing of terrorism as a preparatory crime. In addition, there is the identification of human trafficking as a preparatory fact. Mr. Chairman. D66 understands the need to extend criminal sanctions against terror where they are currently inadequate. However, some of these measures still raise questions. I would like to present it to the Minister in this debate. First of all, broadening the possibilities of extracting DNA material. As the Council of State also mentions, the removal and storage of DNA material is an interference, I would even say: a significant interference in the right to respect for private life as laid down in Article 8 of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights. As far as D66 is concerned, we are therefore dealing very carefully with DNA material, even if it comes from a terrorist suspect. In principle, D66 can support this measure. But what strikes me in the answers given by the Minister in the written round, to the note following the report, are the extremely long retention periods of DNA material in the event of a conviction. It is a minimum of 20 years and a maximum of 80 years. That's what got me thinking. Can the Minister explain to me why it is necessary to keep DNA material for so long in some cases? Can he also tell me how often it occurs that material is stored for so long? Because that would mean that your DNA would be kept even if you weren't alive. Is that right? If so, why is that right? Is that proportional? And why is it necessary? Finally, I would also like to know whether the DNA material will be immediately destroyed in the event of a suspect's acquittal. Or are there cases in which it is kept? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The second measure is the obligation to report. In this respect, too, careful demarcation is of course very important. 'Cause how do you know when or when you don't have to report it? When do certain suspicions that you may have lead to the judgment that you have real knowledge of something? Thus the Minister himself expressed it in the written answer to my questions. It's an extremely precarious border. Can the Minister explain the impact of the measure on the provisionability of the citizen? In other words: what is allowed and what is not allowed? Please also comment on this part of the law. Mr. Chairman. My final point is the extension of the provisional detention for terrorist suspects to 44 days, without serious objections. The Minister amended this point by means of a letter of amendment. That letter of amendment raised concerns in my group. As far as D66 is concerned, the extension of pre-trial detention will, without serious objections, only be possible for returners from terrorist territory. But that seems to lead to a legal difficulty. D66 has if it is limited to the returner understanding of this measure, also because more time is needed for criminal investigations. In countries such as ISIS, for example, I believe that I now have to say "IS" occupied, such as Syria or Iraq, evidence gathering, evidence can of course be difficult. But locking up a person for 44 days without serious objections or serious grounds is a particularly serious breach of the right of freedom, which is also clearly mentioned in the ECHR and in the Constitution. You can't go to work for 44 days, you can't take care of your family, and you can't pay your bills. Such an infringement of the right of freedom must therefore be handled with extreme restraint. Again, for evidence against returners, I understand the measure. But why, Minister, does the text that we received in the letter of amendment still leave open the possibility that the measure applies to terrorist suspects who cannot be regarded as returners? This is actually my main point. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer, to get a grip on this part of the law. Where necessary, I will consider tabling a motion, but first I will wait for the Minister's answers to my questions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	I would also like to offer my sincere condolences to the President for the death of former Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers, in particular the Minister and, in particular, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Today we are discussing a law to prevent terrorism. I believe that everything that is necessary and justified should be done to prevent attacks. I always use two criteria. Firstly, the rule of law must be reduced as far as possible. That is why I do not think that all kinds of administrative measures taken by the Minister are appropriate. I think it is very important that there should always be control in the form of a judge's ruling. Secondly, measures need to be taken when they are needed. This law is based here on a motion by members Segers of the Christian Union and Samsom of the Labour Party. It called for an investigation into the possibility of an extension of the provisional detention, stressing that this would not be desirable without the intervention of the court. That is exactly what the Minister has complied with in this law. It contains a number of other topics, such as identifying human trafficking as a preparatory fact. I'm glad there's serious attention to that. When the refugee flows started a few years ago, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security said that there would be absolutely no potential attackers among them. We have seen that, unfortunately, that was the case. I am therefore very pleased that this is now legally recognised. Then consider training for terrorism and financing terrorism as a preparatory crime. I understand that, but what exactly does this include? I sometimes buy potting soil at the Jumbo, but I don't suppose it's about that kind of business. What kind of business do we have to think about? Can the Minister make that more specific tonight? Something else is disenfranchisement of the right to vote in the event of an irrevocable conviction. That will certainly be a symbolic matter. Salafists who turn against our rule of law, against our democracy, against our elections will not really be affected by such a measure. But I do agree that if people are placed outside our democratic rule of law, the democratic rule of law may also face them. Another issue is the introduction of a broad reporting obligation for all those who have knowledge of the preparation of terrorist offences. I agree with what Mr Verhoeven said earlier. When will you know? What do you need to know? What does a mother need to know before she turns her son in? Can the Minister give us some more examples of this? It's quite a trade-off you have to make. I am also very pleased that the Minister respects the professional secrecy of journalists, lawyers, doctors and others with professional secrecy in this law. With regard to extending the possibilities of taking cell material for DNA research, I also agree with Mr Verhoeven's questions. Do you still need to collect DNA from people after they die? But the most important point is, of course, the extension of the possibility of taking suspects of terrorist offences into remand. We have seen that a letter of amendment has been made following previous criticism and that this section focuses on a specific category, the returners, because it might take more time for research. I have a question on this which I have also asked the Minister earlier. Are there any examples of why this law, this enlargement, is needed? The CDA also asked that question in the written round. The Minister then says: I can reassure the members of the CDA that so far there have been no problems regarding the detention of suspects in investigations into terrorist offences. But why is that necessary? I am willing to give people who have to do this kind of research more space and opportunities, but then it must be necessary. I also know that much has been cut back on research, but I do not think it is right that cuts in researchers should lead to an extension of the period of provisional detention. Can the Minister elaborate on that? I would ask him to state in particular what examples, concrete cases, indicate that this law is necessary, except for a motion by Mr Segers and Mr Samsom. Are there concrete examples of which the Minister says: now is it necessary to come up with new laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	I would like to point out to Mr Van Raak that if he reads an answer from the Minister, it might be nice if he reads the whole answer. After all, the Minister goes further in his story and says that he wishes to emphasise that, with a look at the investigation into terrorism cases at home and abroad, referring to the attacks in Brussels and Paris, the usefulness of this measure is urgently needed. I think it is only right that the answer given by Mr Van Raak to my questions should be put completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	Yeah, that so far it's worked out enough. So it's provided sufficient solution so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think Mr Van Raak should just read it quietly. I shall refer to this later in my own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	I asked the Minister to come up with concrete examples, concrete examples also in the Netherlands. Because we are going to introduce this law into the Netherlands. I haven't seen any of these examples yet. That's what I read in these answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to briefly mention the death of Mr Ruud Lubbers and the chairman, colleagues and the family. But now we are going to the law that we are discussing here today. The government has presented us with a proposal to strengthen the possibilities of combating terrorism. This is at odds with a number of fundamental fundamental rights. This does not mean that the proposal is, by definition, unacceptable from a human legal point of view. This means, however, that we need to be extremely careful about this and that we need to be able to answer a number of questions, as colleagues have just asked. Is there a compelling social need for the plans? Are human rights violations proportionate to the objective, i.e.: are they proportionate? Is there adequate legal protection to prevent abuse? Do the measures have a clear and precise legal basis? The questions we have to answer are therefore clear. But yes, politics is not math. A very far-reaching part of the proposal, as colleagues have said, is the possibility of extending the defendant's provisional detention for up to 30 days. Is there a need for this measure? The honest answer is I don't know. The Council of State says there isn't one. In the past, on other grounds, a four-fold extension of the pre-trial detention of terrorist suspects has been carried out, but this extension has yielded little. The extra time hasn't helped the investigation in any of those cases. As a result, the board concludes that it is better to abandon that plan. But we are in an exceptional situation. In the coming years, more people are likely to return to the Netherlands than before from areas controlled by terrorist organisations. The Netherlands has a responsibility to admit these people, because they are Dutch citizens. At the same time, it is at risk that these people are not regrets, but have bad intentions. It is also our responsibility to address the consequences for security in the Netherlands for the return of these Syrians as well as possible. According to the D.A., it is conceivable that an extension of the duration of pre-trial detention may be necessary. That's how I see it. It's conceivable, but it's not beyond doubt. That makes it difficult for my group to agree to this proposal. We would therefore like to propose that, in the absence of a prior test, an ex post test be organised. It is not optimal, but to conclude afterwards that the extension was necessary is also far from desirable. I therefore want some sort of horizon clause. This is in line with what the government itself has proposed in its administrative measures against terrorism. I quote from the Minister's letter on this subject. He said in 2016: "The proposal was submitted as a temporary law because the bill contains far-reaching powers that violate citizens' rights and freedoms. Temporaryity obliges to reconsider whether it is appropriate to continue this law after five years. The evaluation of the law that I send to your Chamber within three years can be taken into account in this consideration." I would like to ask for a little more time for that evaluation. In this case, I would say: let's do an evaluation after about five years and then have another decision followed. As regards the extension by 30 days on top of the 14 days in detention. According to the coalition agreement, which I took once again this weekend, a judge will have to examine critically whether there is any reason to extend the provisional detention. That role of the judge is important to my group, but we do wonder what the judge-supervisor is testing. When I read the bill, it is important that detention can follow without serious objections. Is there or is there not a measurable, critical test? Can the Minister paint a little more on how the judge commissioner will proceed? Or does suspicion count without evidence as long as it's in conjunction with the fear of flight risk? There is another important point in the coalition agreement. The coalition parties have instructed the minister to improve cooperation with others, including international organisations, so that it becomes easier to gather evidence. That is very important. 44 days of pre-trial detention can be endless if you are wrongly imprisoned, but for the prosecution it is still a limited time to extract evidence from sometimes inhospitable territory. What is the situation with the strengthening of this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	I have a question about Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. I note that she is proposing a horizon clause for all the measures contained in this bill, which will expire unless it is said that we must continue. Is that right? Has that been deliberately chosen? Are these measures such as the obligation to report and the designation of training for terrorism as a preparatory act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	There will indeed be a new decision to determine whether the legislative amendment expires. But my main point is remand. So, as far as I am concerned, my amendment can be changed in this direction, if it could count on the approval of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	I was not ready to make a final assessment of this, but I was more interested in whether there are any objections and reservations about all parts, or whether the amendment is aimed in particular at extending the provisional detention. I understand from Mrs Buitenweg's words that this is mainly about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	Especially the latter, yes. I do have a lot of questions on those other points, but I will get to that in a moment. In fact, the amendment is mainly aimed at pre-trial detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mrs Buitenweg sets out very well how to look at new legislation. You can see if based on history there is a need for it. The Council of State's answer is that there is no such thing. Mrs Buitenweg says this is worrying. She also says: on the basis of the future, which we don't know, it might be wise to set something in motion. That's the way I'm trying to look at it. I very much agree with the evaluation proposal in her amendment. I only think that the addition goes very far that the Minister of Justice and Security should come up with a law after five years, which the Chamber then accepts or does not accept. Let's do that evaluation absolutely. I am very much in favour of that. That is a very good idea from Mrs Buitenweg. But let us not anticipate that evaluation by imposing a law in any case. How does Mrs Buitenweg view the second part of her own amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	I've gone way beyond myself by not proposing a horizon clause with which the law would finally end, as was originally in my first version. I see the Minister looking, but my intention was that there would be an evaluation and that the law would then lapse, after which it would of course always be up to the Chamber to make another legislative proposal. I also see Mrs Van Toorenburg nodding: I understood from a conversation with her that this could not count on very broad agreement. That is why I put it in the amendment in such a way that at least there will be an evaluation and then there will be a new decision. If nothing is decided by parliament, then I have formulated it in such a way that the law eventually goes through. But I want something more compelling that the Minister should at least come up with a proposal based on the evaluation, so that we can see if we want to change the law or not. So that's a little bit more than just an evaluation. I'm just saying what: a WODC report comes and then there's no need for action from the minister anymore. I've been trying to take some kind of intermediate route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	I get it. Mrs Buitenweg is actually proposing a clean-up law, which is rejected or adopted by Parliament after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	I think it's a nice word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	A cleanup bill, yes. That's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	I'm too inexperienced for that, but I'm taking over the term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	I have never heard of it either, but I say it because it says that a bill is being tabled that takes the measures out of the law. If you're filing a bill to get something out of the law, I'd call that a cleanup bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	Then I get your point; it's clear. I have one more question. An evaluation also gives the Chamber a moment to act on its own. Shouldn't we trust that? I would certainly like to support you in the evaluation. I think it is a valid point. I think it is important in this type of legislation that we do this very critically. But making a law based on an amendment without knowing the evaluation actually goes a little too far. So I hope Mrs Buitenweg will look at that again. That was actually the purpose of this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	It's a very successful interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	...for my doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	It's very good for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	If it is felt so broad and others say that there will be a genuine evaluation, I could possibly amend the law in that direction. I can say from my group that it is really complicated for us to agree to something we have not now established the necessity of, while keeping people in custody for 44 days. That's actually very heavy. That's why I'm trying to make the most of it. I therefore hope to hear from the Minister about this international cooperation. By letter of amendment, the Minister limited the scope of the measure by pointing out a limited number of articles rather than the general "in case of suspicion of a terrorist offence." I think this is a very good development in itself, but why was it not chosen to apply this measure only to the returners? Mr Verhoeven also said it. Actually, I'm just gonna go along with his words. Otherwise, I do not understand why this measure would apply to Dutch people who are in the Netherlands and who are suspected of committing a terrorist offence, and who are not going to apply at some point to people who are suspected of terrible things for other reasons. Look, for those returners, I can understand. We don't have enough information on that. But for others, I find this enlargement complicated. I also have questions about DNA DNA testing colleagues have already referred to it, both in terms of the length of storage and in terms of who it is actually going to be for. The Minister has not chosen to limit the scope here. In this case, the DNA extraction applies to anything related to a terrorist crime. Why is this so inconsistent? The same applies to the obligation to report. Why was such a broad explanation given when the other plan is much more limited? Does the Minister believe that it is very clear to everyone when there is a terrorist offence under the law? I am thinking, for example, of the fact that this includes the criminalisation of self-study of terrorism, especially if the EU Counter-Terrorism Directive is adopted along these lines. How does he intend to ensure that people can reasonably know what is expected of them? Then, as far as the designation of human trafficking is concerned, it is a fact of preparation. Can the Minister state exactly what must be proved before the courts if this is to be regarded as a terrorist act? It's not about human trafficking in general, so what should be proven? Mr President, let me conclude with a positive point. My group is very satisfied with the fact that an important part of the previous proposal has been deleted: the criminalisation of deliberately staying without permission in a territory controlled by a terrorist organisation. This could count on massive disapproval from the consulted organisations and institutions. There were a lot of hooks and eyes on it, and the current criminal law framework would largely be sufficient to prosecute the returnee. So it is good that this part of the bill is off the table, but I am aware that the plan is still in the coalition agreement. And that agreement was hammered off after the previous minister withdrew the proposal for this offence. So it's a huge swing. I suspect it's going to make its way in soon. I hope the Minister will look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it is a special evening, now that we have had to learn that Ruud Lubbers has died. Allow me to say a few words about this very briefly. What I've always liked about him is that as he grew older, he had an even wider perspective and became even more generous. Often you see people getting older getting a little worried and their world getting smaller. The strength of this man was in the fact that even as he grew older and older he kept a more beautiful, broader look. What he has always meant to all of us and certainly to the CDA, we will always carry in our hearts. Then there is the proposal that is on the table today and which we are discussing today. Currently there are several hundred Dutch extravagants staying in the IS area or in the former IS area. Some of those extravagants have already returned to the Netherlands before 2015. This group often did not know how quickly they had to return from the caliphate. They came back seriously disillusioned. At that time in the Netherlands it was still not sufficiently clear what horrors were taking place there. But that's different now. All travellers who have not yet returned have been in that area for at least two years. They have almost certainly received military training and have been exposed for a long time to the propaganda of IS; a very dangerous combination, I think. This is precisely why the AIVD and the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator explicitly warn this group of future returners. They indicate that this group is more dangerous than all the others who have returned earlier. This is precisely what makes the threat of terrorism so enormous. Therefore, the CDA considers it important to improve, where possible, the tools for detecting, prosecuting and condemning terrorist offences. The legislative proposal before us today contributes to this objective. How often do we not say in this house that legislation is always a bit behind the facts? Now we see a huge threat. We are doing everything we can to give judges the means to contribute to safety. Then I find it rather difficult when it is said: yes, we have not yet had the problem in our face in full; do we have to do these laws? I think so. At the same time, I've been doing a round with all kinds of prosecutors to hear from them what they've come across. When was it complicated? I asked them that because I want to be a good lawyer too. In the meantime, I understand that there are things that need to be set free. The D.A.'s office was thinking, "This is dangerous." The district attorney has appealed. In the meantime, there was more evidence on the table which allowed the provisional detention to continue. So there are situations where we were actually powerless without this law. This has happened in Rotterdam with regard to an international crime. If I've found one example in my tour, I know there are more. What I think is even more important is that we have finally done our best to make a law that we might not have wanted much earlier. There is also something to be said for this, especially because it gives judges instruments. I'm not repeating that for nothing. The proposal before us concerns merely the possibility of extending the provisional detention of certain terrorist offences, broadening the scope for taking up cell material for DNA research, introducing a broad reporting obligation for those who are aware of terrorist offences or preparing them, and the possibility of removing a person convicted of a terrorist offence from the right to vote. Each and every one of them are important additions. Of course we have a few questions. But I'm sure I won't get there until Mrs Buitenweg has asked her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mrs Van Toorenburg has just mentioned a number of examples. I had a question about that. She said that it was indeed necessary in the past for people to stay in detention longer. She said: that's because of an international crime. That wasn't about terrorism, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	Yeah, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	Oh, well. When you mentioned this, I was wondering: are you actually planning to expand this? Can you see that after this we see this not only for terrorism but also for other crimes? This is what I thought because you just used the word "crime" differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	That's right. Maybe that was an unfortunate word. I just wanted to say that it was an international matter. It was an attack abroad with young people who came from Rotterdam. The cross-border aspect means that there were requests for legal aid. Not everything was already inside. Fortunately, in the meantime no one has disappeared from the picture, but in this case that has been very tense about it. The prosecutor said to me: I would have loved to have this law in my hands, because I would have been able to hold someone! But I couldn't. I wouldn't want that to happen to us again. Let me concentrate on this important aspect, because it is of course something that we are making possible the extension of provisional detention. I realize that very well. But because large numbers of returners are expected, it is also very important that we ensure that we can get as much information as possible. The coalition agreement states that we use the best insights of international organisations to see how we can build evidence. I wonder what the Minister can say about that. In the end, of course, we want to bring a case to an end. It's one thing to hold someone longer, but then if you don't have anything, you can't end up like this. So that remains very important. I have heard a number of questions about the scope. We would, of course, prefer to extend the provisional detention for all terrorist offences. That's what we've always said as CDA. At the same time, we are aware that the Council of State has also been very critical of this. Of course, you want to find majorities on business. In the end, we have said: let us at least settle this for the returners. I understand from the Minister that it is better to shape it in this way, but can he explain what category he specifically thinks about this, not being a returner? I believe that this can also bring some peace in the Chamber, for people who do not want everyone to be put away, but who want to give the judge the opportunity to opt for a remand. Perhaps we have so much faith in our justice that we believe that judges will not do so if they do not feel that it is really necessary. Because the room to decide not to put someone in jail always has judges, I can say to Mrs Buitenweg. It is not that they are obliged to do so when there is a certain word. That's never true. That's important. Mr. Chairman. I said something about these international investigations. I think it is important for the Minister to come back to that. And let me also smash one dream of Mrs Buitenweg:...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	That's not very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	That is not very nice, even on Valentine's Day, but as far as we are concerned, there will be a bill very soon that will make the stay on terrorist-run territory criminal, precisely because we know that it will always be very complicated to work around. We know that the category that is there now and comes out alive will not be the category that has done nothing there. So let's at least do something when you're there when you're not supposed to be there, if you haven't already returned, like that disillusioned group we got back a while ago. I guess we'll just have to move on to a good criminal offence. I hope it gets there real soon. I'm done with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	I'd like to come back to the evaluation. If we get a majority in the Chamber for an evaluation, are you prepared to say that the findings of such an evaluation should be taken into account critically in the future? So if it is not demonstrated afterwards that this law was necessary, is there any willingness to withdraw the law? Or is the evaluation just a tissue for bleeding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mrs Buitenweg asks me not to do something she does now. I want an evaluation clause, and I want to look at the evaluation honestly at that point, point. Then I do not want to say: it may not have been necessary, but given the threat, I am glad that I have that provision and I therefore want to hold it. I want to be able to say that. I agree with an evaluation clause. But if we haven't needed this law yet, I don't want us to say, oh, we don't need it. I want us, as legislators, to provide judges with means that they can use if the threat gives rise to them. That's what we need to see. Evaluation yes and look at it really well too, but I don't want to add any consequence to it, not in your direction and not in mine. If we get GroenLinks's vote in favour of this law, that's worth something to us too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	Once with that last one. With this kind of legislation, that is absolutely right. Mrs Van Toorenburg looked almost delightfully ahead to a possible law for criminalising the residence in territory controlled by terrorist organisations. We know that about her, that's her right too, and that's fine. She says more or less: almost all the people who have been there have done something. What about aid workers and journalists and how does she view the very critical advice of the Council of State on this at the time? Those are ingredients that the CDA normally looks at very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	Since I get the question and I want to answer it honestly, I have to tell you that the opinion of the Council of State has bewildered me. I had a bit of the idea: what stone do you live under? Can I just say it very harshly? This is something I think you should make sure you have a decent law. Having said that, it is of course always important to make a proper assessment. People who are helpers, people who are journalists, in the broadest sense of the word, have serious work to do there. They didn't just go there. Those are nine out of ten times embedded in these dangerous areas so they don't just bike around there, because that's dangerous. Of course, I think we should make sure that these people can do their jobs and that we should help and protect them. But anyone who has not gone there with such a title or a similar title that you and I may not have thought about has no business doing so. If you get out of there, you're deadly dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	I think we want the same thing Chamberwide here, but I think that an opinion from the Council of State is very important, even if it is not convenient, especially in the area of legislation where demarcation is a very difficult issue. I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg, in a possible subsequent opinion of the Council of State on a possible new law, to look at this really openly and not to think 'the last time I called it bewildering or ridiculous, then it will not be good again', because it happens not to be in line with the CDA's thinking in this area. I really hope that we will then be able to have a substantive discussion on the basis of advice from sensible lectures in order to achieve careful legislation and that we will not push through a wish that feels good, however understandable. I'd love it if we could meet on Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	I am glad that Mr Verhoeven does respect the Council of State. I wish he had listened a little more carefully to the Council of State when it came to the weed law and the abolition of the majesty desecration. I think the Council of State was brilliant at the time, but they were also just marbled in the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	This is selective shopping, but we'll do it another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	But I think what I said is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. Terrorists want to destroy everything that makes our country a fine country: security, freedom, equality and democracy. Where there is terrorism, the rule of law ends. It is therefore extremely important that we protect our beautiful, fine, free and democratic country from the barbarity of terrorism. Fortunately, many steps have been taken in this area in recent years, and that was urgently needed. With the present law, we are taking some very important next steps to keep our country safe, and that is just a good thing. There is no such thing as 100% security, but we must do everything within the limits of the rule of law to keep our country and the Dutch safe. Mr. Chairman. It will therefore not be surprising that the VVD supports the measures contained in the present legislative proposal. They are, in the belief of the VVD Group, measures that help to act effectively against different forms of terrorism. It is important to realise that terrorism is developing. In 2001, no one could have imagined that terrorists would drill themselves into the Twin Towers using passenger planes and that these towers would collapse, causing thousands of deaths. We had no idea. It was a new development. Who would have expected this so-called "Arab Spring" to lead to the murderous Islamic State and that the all-encompassing and devastating ideology of this movement would attract people from all over Europe, who not only pose a serious threat to peace and security in Syria and Iraq, but also in Europe itself, as we have learned through damage and shame following terrible attacks in Paris, Berlin, Brussels, London, Barcelona and Nice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	I hear Mr Arno Rutte say that the Arab Spring has led to the emergence of IS. Can he explain that a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	Yes. The Arab Spring has launched a movement internationally in many places that initially resembled a democratisation movement, including in Syria itself, the rebellion against the dictator Assad. But in the hole and chaos that arose there, a terrible terrorist regime like ISIS has indeed been able to get its place. So those things are connected. In Libya, part of you see the same thing. The Arab Spring struck and the terrible dictator was chased away, but in the power vacuum created by it, unfortunately, a place has been created for all kinds of terrorist groups, including IS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	I would like to point out to Mr Rutte that the international world has abandoned Syria at some point. This has indeed contributed to the creation, among other things, of IS. The invasion in Iraq, which the Netherlands participated in, has led to Saddam Hussein's Ba'ath party actually forming the backbone of IS. Those were the people who were able to organize. The weapons, Mr. Rutte, came from the Americans and the Russians. I think it is wise that when Mr Rutte talks about this, he does not blame it on the good intentions of a number of people in the Middle East. They cannot be rubbed that this was the origin of IS. Then you're really failing them, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	I really leave that conclusion on Mr Azarkan's behalf. I only conclude that the movement that has arisen around the Arab Spring has eventually experienced a development that has also led to IS. I'm not saying anyone's guilty of that or anything. The point is that I want to point out development, what is happening. Nor can we deny that, after that development, ISIS finally got its feet on the ground in Syria and Iraq and that it is a murderous and terrorist regime, which unfortunately also attracted people here in Europe, who then partly went back there to commit attacks. That's what I'm sketching here. Unfortunately, we could not have thought of that in advance and we would have hoped otherwise. I also do not understand why Mr Azarkan is accusing me of all this. I don't know. I don't know exactly what point he wants to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Rutte, you're making a real mess of it. In your initial remark, you state that the Arab Spring has led to the emergence of IS. That's just pertinent bullshit. That's not true at all. It was not the people who fought for their freedom under difficult conditions in a number of Arab countries who contributed to the creation of IS. It is the vacuum created by, among other things, international action in Iraq, invasion and destabilization. I do not understand how Mr Rutte got this. I would say: deepen yourself more and better in the situation before you make this kind of statement, because you are just doing a lot of people short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	I'll leave it on Mr. Azarkan's behalf. He's making a really big song out of something I don't quite understand. I simply note that in the end ISIS has been given its place in Syria and Iraq. That's the problem I want to outline here. I don't want to offend anyone with that. I also wanted to outline that sometimes you can't predict developments in advance. Whatever you think of that, I am concerned that we in the Netherlands also have a security risk due to the arrival of IS and that we need legislation to be able to take appropriate action against it. Mr. Chairman. I do not have the illusion that the measures contained in the proposal before us will enable all perpetrators of any terrorist act to be tried in our country. I am convinced, however, that there is an increased chance that we will be able to properly track them down, hold them and bring them to justice. This is very important for the VVD. Mr. Chairman. Most of the resistance among the doubters and the opponents of this law, as we were supposed to be, appears to be in the part of broadening the possibility of taking suspects of a terrorist offence longer into remand without the normally mandatory serious objections being present. All other grounds for review for pre-trial detention will remain in place. It is clear that we must not be light-hearted about the need for serious objections. At the same time, investigating terrorist offences can be very complex and time-consuming. In reply to questions from political groups, the Minister also referred to the attacks in Brussels. They are mentioned as examples. That is an attack as we, fortunately, have not yet known in the Netherlands. For the investigation of such an attack, the proposed measure may have added value. In addition, you want to do everything you can to prevent a suspect of a terrorist offence who is still under investigation from being released and, if possible, to commit new atrocities. Mrs Van Toorenburg pointed out just now. The VVD will therefore wholeheartedly support this measure. Mr. Chairman. A measure that has not yet been included in the present legislative proposal, but which is an important part of the coalition agreement, also at the request of the VVD, is criminalising residence in terrorist territory. In response to questions from the VVD Group, the Minister indicated that he would work on a separate legislative proposal in which this would be regulated. This is reassuring, but at the same time the Minister replies that, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, that measure would have no added value compared to the existing legal measure regarding the trial of returners from Syria and Iraq. The VVD, let that be clear, sees added value in making a separate criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. Terrorist territory can also go beyond just staying in Syria and Iraq, even if it is only because we are not yet able to foresee what future terrorist fires will arise, if they are not already there. We need to make sure people know about this! They will be tried if they have travelled to such areas for no good reason, if only as a preventive measure so that they do not take that step. Mr. Chairman. I assume that the Minister is working at full speed on the bill to criminalise residence in the terrorist area, in line with the agreements made in the government agreement. I would like to hear when we will be able to welcome that bill to the Chamber. I would like to hear a clear response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	I still have a question about the criminalisation of residence in territory controlled by terrorist organisations, in all honesty. I could have put it to the CDA colleague, but Mr Rutte also embraces it. What are we doing with children who have been taken by parents, who at some point become adults because they stay long, and then come back? Are they criminal on balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	If you're traveling to terrorist territory and you're underage, you can't be charged. That would be a weird thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	But they come back as adults.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	Kids getting older, they can't help it. I do think you should look closely at people who have come back from terrorist areas, who have experienced and seen atrocities, and may have been indoctrinated. We shouldn't be naive about that. We need to be alert and pay attention to that. But a criminal offence is about the person who is of age and consciously travels to terrorist territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	My colleague says it well: it is the stay, not the departure. So the law you are so keen to embrace together with the colleague of the CDA will have to be reworded. So is it staying or travelling?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	We'll discuss the law as soon as it's in the Chamber. We think it is important that the residence in that area is punishable, but I can imagine that you have a different opinion when someone leaves when he is a minor. But we'll discuss that in due course. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. Mr President, I will conclude. I repeat: 100% security does not exist, but we must do everything within the limits of our rule of law to keep our country as safe as possible. As far as the VVD is concerned, the present legislative proposal makes an important contribution to this. We will therefore wholeheartedly support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV has also reached the news of the death of former Prime Minister Lubbers. We therefore wish his next of kin strength in dealing with the loss. Mr. Chairman. If you're going to make a bill to fight terrorism, then the diagnosis, the preliminary analysis, must be correct. That is why I would like to start with how we look at the framework of this legislative proposal: what does it take place in? The reason why we are discussing the legislative proposal before us today is, of course, Islam. Mr Rutte and Mr Azarkan had a bit of an interrupting debate about this earlier, but that is, of course, the ideology behind it. Let us not forget that the terror that Europe has experienced in recent years, including the murder of Theo van Gogh and the happening at the Jewish restaurant in Amsterdam, is in a tradition of 1,400 years and it is called Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	I have a question for Mr De Graaf. There has been one terrorist attack in the Netherlands in the last ten years. Does Mr De Graaf know where it took place and who did it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	You can schedule any time frame. I'm talking about Theo van Gogh as a victim of terror. I know, of course, what terrorist attack Mr Azarkan is referring to. It has also been judged by the judge as such and the perpetrators have been severely punished for that. Then I think the rule of law has done its job well. Those people are in the extra-security facility, I think even in Vught, among other terrorists. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	You're not answering my question. My question was as follows. In the last ten years, there has been one terrorist attack on Dutch soil. You start blaming Islam right away. You always do. I'm fine with that, but let's stick to the facts. There's been one terrorist attack. My question to you is: where did it take place and who did it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	I answered that. Of course, Mr Azarkan is referring to the attack on a mosque. There's been an incendiary bomb. I told you what happened to that. And I told you, you can put it in any time frame you want. In this way, everyone can try to create the truth in their own form. If you look at the territory of Europe, I am not talking about the European Union, but about the territory of Europe, there have been more than 100 Islamic terrorist attacks since Charlie Hebdo and including Charlie Hebdo, with more than 500 deaths and many more injuries. This way, of course, you can all do something in your own time frame. We are looking at the great common denominator of the terror that is taking place. Then I'm gonna end up with Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Normally you don't get much further than the Netherlands, because you want to limit everything to that. You want out of the euro. You want nothing to do with Europe, but you say that I am looking at it at European level. I would like to point out that the number of attacks in relative and absolute terms is much lower at the moment than in the 1970s and 1980s. That was mostly the IRA. It was in the ETA. It was in other groups. But you always come up with the story of Islam. You're bringing a story that's just not true. You're gonna start with it. I ask you what has happened in the last ten years. You reluctantly admit that a mosque was attacked by perpetrators who looked more like you than I did. Those are indeed punished. That's the honest story. That is what you should just tell us, without going straight back to Islam and bashing Islam, because then you do not do justice to reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	I think it is good that Mr Azarkan says that the perpetrators looked like me. I find this rather gross accusation and a parliamentarians unworthy. You just said that literally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	I said that the perpetrators looked more like you than I did. That's what I said. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	Yes, and I find that a gross accusation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	... and a parliamentarians like Mr Azarkan unworthy. If we're going to talk about spans of time, you're going to outline a ten-year span of time, then you can also look at the ideology you adhere to, Islam. It has been sowing terror, death and destruction all over the world for 1,400 years, with the aim of subjugating the whole world to Islam. You're looking away from that. I am not allowed to look at this internationally, because I normally only talk about the Netherlands. What Mr Azarkan is saying is total nonsense, plus his insult, which goes beyond all bounds. Then you finally disqualified yourself as a parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. This is the image that is always told at the PVV. When you sign up as a city councilman, you want to talk about other things, but we read that it should always be about Islam. Islam is evil. We know that about you. The experience is that there are a lot of Muslims in the Netherlands participating in society. They try to find a job and cooperate, but they are each time put away by Mr. De Graaf as inferior and as evil. Mr. De Graaf, come up with another story. It's gonna end sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes, I haven't heard any further questions in all Mr Azarkan's cries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	I have already included part of my text in my reply in 1,400 years of Islam terror. However, I would like the Minister to answer the question as to why this cause, Islam, is not mentioned in the coalition agreement or in the explanatory memorandum to this law. Why aren't they telling us the reason? Are the slaughtered children of Manchester or the deaths of Brussels not worth it? Mr Rutte has also mentioned a number of places. Brussels, Charlie Hebdo, Bataclan, Atocha, London, Nice, Toulouse, Berlin, Saint Petersburg, Istanbul and many, many other places in Europe; I have already named the hundreds of attacks. Of course, the Minister can say that this comes from the integrated approach to jihadism, but the naming of jihadism is also the concealment of Islam. Jihadism is 100% Islam. Does the Minister see that? If so, why does he not mention it in the explanatory memorandum? If not, can he explain where jihadism comes from under this bill? Mr. Chairman. A number of measures have been taken in recent years. They will all have their usefulness, sometimes a limited utility and sometimes a greater use. But all the measures taken are small. Mr President, I see that Mr Azarkan wishes to intervene again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	Yeah, I see it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	I don't know if you'd allow it right away. I'd be happy to continue with my lines as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	We had agreed on the number of interruptions. You were working on your lines. Were you almost done or not? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	Well, I was just getting started when the first interruption came. I've had one page now. Maybe I'm halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'd like to allow one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	There's still six minutes out of eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was surprised that Mr De Graaf shopped very selectively in attacks. He forgot one, including Breivik's, who shot 79 young people. I'm asking him to help me. Is Mr Wilders, your leader, mentioned 30 or 32 times in the manifesto that Breivik wrote afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	We are not responsible for a madman who shoots 79 people, not even the madman who shot people in Las Vegas. They do not act from an ideology that has for 1,400 years determined the lives of millions, even billions, Muslims in the world, of which Mr Azarkan himself is one. He's trying to blame us for such a brutal attack, because my party leader is mentioned by a madman several times in his manifesto. That man is completely insane. To try to put this in the hands of the PVV in this way only shows the insanity of the spirit of Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	I was just talking about it: all the measures taken are quite small. They are actually like concrete blocks that are placed at an event or in the inner cities. The Netherlands is a terraced house on the Europastraat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	You continue, but the next interruption is the result of not debating the content anymore and always...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yeah, who bounces can expect the ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	It's about the person now, and then I have to give everyone the floor again to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	Yeah, fine, for what it's worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	I really want to appeal to you, Mr. Azarkan, but also to you, Mr. De Graaf, to continue with the content of the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	...and to stop blaming each other. One final comment, Mr. Azarkan. There he goes again. That microphone... it's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	It's not an automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	With you, it's self-evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	He attributed the list of perpetrators made by Mr De Graaf to an ideology. I would say a religion, but Mr De Graaf may take the view that Islam is an ideology. How can he be so sure Breivik is a madman and how doesn't he know about all the others? Weren't they crazy crazy people who did something to others? Could they also be individuals, such as Mr Breivik?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr Breivik, I hope, is not at the beginning of a tradition of 1,400 years of terror, death, destruction and misery. It's Islam. You can just read that terror in the Koran, Sirah, Hadith and Sharia. In those books, which serve as the basis for that ideology, it is all neatly stated that this is a mission for every Muslim. The Qur'an says 91 times that you must follow Muhammad's life. That's not funny when you read his biography. I hope that Mr Breivik will not become the same as Muhammad, the spirit you follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	This is really gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	I'm asking a simple question. I'm noticing the pattern. When someone makes an attack with a different background, whether Christian, atheistic or whatever, it is often someone who is insane, a lone wolf or someone who wants to harm society. Other than that, he has no identity, no origin and no religion. At Breivik, Mr. De Graaf says he was a crazy lunatic, but all the others have something in common. Why aren't they just crazy crazy people? Islam, Mr De Graaf, has never committed an attack. It's people who do that. The same goes for Mr Breivik. It's people who make attacks. We have to fight that. We must not abolish Islam or do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	You have made your point, Mr Azarkan. I suggest that Mr De Graaf continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	I would like to answer that question anyway. I will try to do so as briefly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr Azarkan is trying to separate two things. If all these people act on the orders of ideology, as I have just explained, and of the works from which that mission is motivated and legitimized, there is a structure, of institutionalization of violence. Of course it hurts Mr Azarkan, but it is no different than it is. That's the way Islam works. People act on their orders. We have the misery of this in Europe and worldwide. 80 million Hindus were killed in those 1,400 years because of that ideology. Look away from it, I say to Mr Azarkan, but I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	No, this has got to stop. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	Yes, but I'll answer the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr President, I had stayed with the Netherlands as a terraced house on the Europastraat. With the neighbors, the doors are open 24 hours a day. The street is flooded with people who, let me put it neatly, have a different moral and manners than we have all built here with economy and enthusiasm. Maybe this way we can get it coming. Then I will come to the content of the law. This law is weaker than the original proposal. On 24 January 2018, the Minister submitted a letter of amendment stating that the provisional detention will only be extended for persons suspected of a specific category of serious terrorist offences instead of all terrorist offences, as stated in the original legislative text of then Minister Blok. This is a very legal debate, but also for the people at home I would like a practical example from the Minister or an explanation of what that difference is. What is specifically terroristly serious enough and what is not? A number of colleagues have already asked questions about the law that is most likely to come, that piece that has now been taken out, about the residence in area controlled by terrorist organisations. I would like to know from the Minister why this delay was chosen. If we slow down in this way, we are going to see future returners, who we as PVV do not want to see returning to our soil, perhaps not enough. Maybe they won't be punished enough. Then we'll miss a chance. Because the longer it takes, the longer guys like Victor Droste, Marouane Boulahyani, Adil Bouchouh, Reda Nidalha and Osama A., and especially their colleagues, can easily keep walking around. Mr. Chairman. Anyone with a little common sense doesn't open their house to the whole world. I can't. Own fireplace is worth gold and thrifty with spirit builds houses like castles. That is Dutch morality and culture, and that has made our country great. In this way you also keep unwanted influences out of the door as much as possible; it is as simple as possible. This should also be the case where the prevention and fight against Islamic terror is concerned. So as far as we are concerned, borders are closed and decide who enters the Netherlands; no more migration from Islamic countries and no more asylum. For example, you avoid that Berlin's attacker could also be on Dutch soil. Also in the asylum stream, IS'ers come with us to Europe. I warned about that in 2014. And they can just choose which country they apply for asylum in. And we're dealing with returners and later military-trained caliphate children. I hope they don't all come here. And communication from the remains of IS shows that preparations for attacks on European soil continue. That is blood-threatening, and at the moment the cabinet allows this scum to enter the Netherlands unhindered. We don't want to. I'm just saying nicely. Then we need to introduce administrative detention. To this end, we have tabled an initiative law, for which the input has now been provided and to which an answer will follow. As far as we are concerned, travellers should never be able to enter the Netherlands again and those punished here should be denaturalised and expelled after serving their sentence. Finally, of course, we must de-Islamicise in order to combat misery and, above all, prevent it for the future. I would like a response from the Minister to our proposals. Finally, Mr President. The cabinet is taking a bill to the Chamber, and there is a chance that we will support this bill. As I said at the beginning: they are concrete blocks, but they have become, by the time the bill is undressed, maybe half concrete blocks in the city centre. But it is something; there are some nice measures in it and we will most likely support it, because it is better than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	Madam President. Shortly before this debate came the message of the death of Ruud Lubbers. There is no doubt that we are going to dwell on this in the Chamber, but I would like to say that we are remembering him with great respect. He was Prime Minister in difficult times, with a lot of tenacity, creativity and dedication. I think he acted as Prime Minister when many of us were teens or twenties, so for many he was the prime minister of our youth. We sincerely wish the family strength in processing this loss. Mr President, then to the legislative proposal. The fight against terrorism calls for a preventive and repressive approach to prevent an attack where possible. Fortunately, we see good work being done by all the services in this area to prevent these attacks. I think that one evening as today we can say that we are grateful that despite the existing threat level in the Netherlands it has remained relatively quiet. Mr. Chairman. The fight also calls for strong action against those who do try, who are involved in the jihadist struggle or who otherwise relate to forms of terrorism. Over the years we have dealt with various legislative proposals that take both administrative and criminal measures. The SGP also supported these measures. We can now see that a number of new measures are being taken. Hopefully these are measures that are expected to be rarely invoked, but that does not make them less valuable. We are in favour, as I can say, of the whole set of measures contained in this legislative proposal. I have a few comments to make, but first there is a more procedural point. We see again that a number of separate proposals have been made to supplement the toolbox of the Code of Criminal Law. Once again, a new proposal is being announced for the criminalisation of residence in a terrorist-controlled area. We have, moreover, supported motions to bring about such a criminalisation. There is also an initiative by Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA on the fight against the glorification of terrorism. We appreciate that, too. We are sympathetic to that. I find it only a disadvantage in terms of trial if we all get separate legislative proposals. The Minister will undoubtedly respond to that. The history of this bill has been a bit of a geyojo. That is why I wonder why we would not take such a point as tightening up on the residence in terrorist areas, which is what the government agreement says, now, precisely if we were to avoid this fragmentation. That is the question I would like to put back to the Minister. Mrs Buitenweg mentioned a genuine evaluation. We are always in favour of sincere evaluations. I kind of hope that's a pleonasm. But this also applies: how does the evaluation of this proposal relate to other evaluation processes? Because I remember previously assumed chamber motions that also asked to evaluate a whole series of anti-terrorism measures and to map their effects. As far as my group is concerned, it would really be preferable not to evaluate it individually, but rather as much in conjunction as possible. So I would like to hear from the Minister about existing evaluation pathways and how an evaluation of this law, which is of course of course useful in itself, relates to this, or how it could be put together. Mr. Chairman. I have already said something about criminalising residence in terrorist territory. Holding without serious objections is an important measure which is now included in this legislative proposal. It is a good thing that the time of constant scrutiny also ensures that it does not just happen. I have already thanked my colleague for the debate because he came up with the intelligent question to add a schedule on that pre-trial detention, because that is very helpful to get a glimpse at a glance of what that is exactly like. I still have the question as to whether this reduction in the number of offences covered by this regulation is sufficient in the letter of amendment to cover all offences which could raise these serious concerns. Mr. Chairman. Disengage from the right to vote. Previously, the SGP urged the government to implement the advice of the Election Council to make it more possible to withdraw from voting rights. I am pleased that the government has now made arrangements for this in this bill. However, we wonder why the rest of the advice of the Election Council is not also considered at the same time. They refer to the provisions 121a, 123a and 124a. They are not directly about terrorism, but they are provisions that can easily be directed towards terrorism. Think of breaking up committee meetings of Chamber, Provincial States or city council. That is why my question is what is happening now with the rest of those recommendations of the Election Council, which have not been taken up in this bill. It is also about the reliability and integrity of the electoral process, says the Election Council. I would be sorry if the valuable suggestions made by the Election Board for this would now disappear in a drawer. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of the obligation to report. The Government also proposes to require any person who is aware of a terrorist offence to report it. The SGP can support this intention. However, we wonder whether we do not accept too easily that a person who is at risk of being prosecuted has no obligation to report. The result is that a co-killer is not obliged to report anyone, while his neighbor who knows about it, but is not involved, is obliged to do so. Of course, the protection of the rights of suspects is very important in itself, but that does not mean that we cannot also oblige them to share their knowledge wherever others are concerned. Whether this will happen quickly in practice is, of course, very much the question, but excluding this group in advance in Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure goes a long way too. So it is not in itself a new point in this bill. In the first instance, the obligation to report is extended to the knowledge of terrorist offences. But that is why you are going to read that second paragraph, which contains the broad exception to the general reporting obligation. I ask the Minister: is it indeed necessary, under the ECHR, for it to be so broad-based? Is it not useful to review that existing exception in paragraph 2 of Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Finally. We also agree with the proposal to identify training for terrorism and financing terrorism as crimes in the preparation or facilitation of a terrorist offence. I was struck by the fact that the Council of State pointed to the risk of the emergence of "a clap of criminal offences in a very early pre-stage," which could lead to uncertainty in prosecution by the Public Prosecutor. I would like to hear a further response from the Minister to that concern about 'a clapping of criminal offences at a very early stage'. Mr President, those were the questions I wanted to raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr President, thank you. The DENK Group has also been saddened by the death of Mr Lubbers. He played an important role in helping the Netherlands further out of the crisis in the 1980s. We're grateful to him for that. I would also like to share a nice quote from him: "Policians and drivers are like tall trees: they catch a lot of wind, but occasionally people pee on it." Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the law strengthening criminal approach to terrorism. I will deal with the individual elements of the legislative amendment on a point-by-point basis, but first I will make a number of comments on the main points. My group is in favour of tackling all forms of terrorism effectively. We believe it is important to use effective means within our constitutional framework so that the rights of individual citizens are not harmed. One of our most important advisory councils, the Council of State, is deeply concerned about this. They see how the government goes one step further each time. I quote: 'The present proposal takes another step forward; it contains infringements of a number of fundamental fundamental rights. Such infringements are only permitted if they are necessary in a democratic society. Although the Section endorses the importance of combating terrorism, it considers that the need for important elements is not convincingly justified." 'Infringements on fundamental fundamental rights' is quite something! Another point I want to make in advance is: who are the terrorists? In this debate, too, we are focusing in particular on the jihadists and, to a lesser extent, on the danger of the extreme right. But in the debate just now with Mr De Graaf, I mentioned that in the last ten years the only terrorist attack in Enschede was committed, not by jihadists but by others, people of their own soil. Mr. Chairman. I come to the six parts of this law. I'd like to deal with those parts in succession. The first part, the criminalisation of residence in an area under the control of a terrorist organisation, has already changed a lot. There was a lot of criticism about this section: from the Dutch order of lawyers, from the Dutch Association of Journalists, from the Dutch Society of Editors, from the Council of Justice, from the Council of State and from the Dutch Association for Justice. The cabinet has therefore deleted this section from the legislative proposal. That's very good. We were even assuming that the Minister had listened after all the criticism, but that is not quite the case. In our view, the Minister is not deleting this part because of criticism but because he no longer needs it. The minister thought he originally needed it because, I quote his own words, 'it would be difficult for the prosecution of returners from combat areas in Syria and Iraq to prove that they have committed terrorist activities there'. Yes, then it would seem obvious to criminalize anyone who has been in that area. That is not necessary, because, as I quote the Minister again, 'the case law must be looked at in such a way that (...) the persecution of Syrians is progressing successfully. In almost all cases, the commission of offences can be used to prepare terrorist offences and to prove (attempt to) participate in a terrorist organisation." That is rather wondrous, in the opinion of the DENK Group, and to some extent opportunistic. The motto isn't "the end justifies all means"? That does not make a strong constitutional impression. Mr. Chairman. The second part is to extend the possibility of holding suspects of terrorist offences in remand without serious objections to the suspects. A lot has already been changed about this: the 44 days, as has also been mentioned by colleagues. As far as the Council of State is concerned, it is a somewhat dubious part, because it is quite a violation of the right of freedom, as enshrined in the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. DENK supports the criticism of the Dutch order of lawyers; criticism that has a number of components. The very first point comes from criminal law. They do not recognize themselves in the picture presented by the Public Prosecutor's Office that the possibilities for pre-trial detention would at present be insufficient. It is precisely in terrorism cases that their experience is that serious objections are being accepted relatively quickly and that, on the basis of little evidence, suspects are being held in custody for a long time. They say: "The massive extension of criminal provisions means that the vast majority of the detained terrorist suspects themselves have not committed violence, but are stuck on suspicion of attempted and preparatory acts or offences. Serious objections are all the faster to such suspicions." I would like a response from the Minister to this criticism. And I also have a question for concrete figures. How many people have been in custody in recent years on the basis of a terrorist target? What happens to those people in custody? The Order of Lawyers has reason to believe that terrorism cases are more likely to lead to a dismissal or acquittal than other cases. Is that correct, Minister? Can the Minister give us any information on that? And what we are also concerned about is how many percent of the people who have been in custody are ultimately found guilty? Is the percentage expected to go up or down with this new part of the law? That says something about the effectiveness of the approach. That effectiveness could also be measured. And whether that is after three years or after five years I suggest that Mr Buitenweg's evaluation should be discussed. But I think it's wise to monitor it. Isn't the risk of acquittal all the greater the less it takes to hold someone? The Order says: "If, after twenty days, there is insufficient evidence to accept serious objections, there is a greater chance that there will still be insufficient after fifty days, then there would still be enough serious objections after fifty days. In other words, there is an increasing chance that citizens will be unjustly and innocently deprived of their freedom." How does the Minister feel about this? Surely it is unacceptable for people, who often turn out to be innocent, to be in prison longer than strictly necessary? Most lawyers are in the front row. Let me quote one more time: the consequences for the individual are life-size. The difference between being held for less than a month and being held for more than a month will be the difference between keeping or losing the rental house, keeping the job or losing it, etc. Then I would like to turn to part three: to broaden the possibilities of taking cell material for DNA research in the case of suspects of terrorist offences, without serious objection. Two brief questions about this, Mr Verhoeven said: what is the basis for long storage, up to 80 years? And can the Minister give us an overview of how many suspects of terrorist offences DNA is taken without serious objections? Fourthly, the extension of the possibility of imposing the additional penalty of withdrawal from the right to vote in the event of a conviction for all terrorist offences for which this is not yet possible. We are wondering whether it is a question of definitively depriving the right to vote. Can the Minister give some concrete examples of this? What are these terrorist crimes with the least severe punishment which still deprives the right to vote? Is there any expectation of the number of people whose right to vote will be reduced? Is it hundreds or thousands? How does this work in a procedural manner? Then part five: introducing a broad reporting obligation for all those who have knowledge of terrorist offences. I am curious to know what the Minister thinks of the point made by the Bar Association that this could lead to tension between population groups and that this would increase discrimination. The order says: "It would not be entirely wrong for citizens, as a result of this enlargement, to always press charges in case of doubt, because otherwise they fear that they will be punishable themselves. A large number of false declarations will possibly result. In that case, it is likely that Muslims in particular will be disproportionately affected by such incorrect declarations." Mr. Chairman. What exactly is the purpose of this obligation of declaration? Is it intended that mothers and fathers will report their own children and brothers against sisters? Are families who go mad because their child has traveled to Syria condemned and persecuted themselves as criminals? How wide does the Minister intend to apply this? Is the family interrogated and possibly charged at every suspect's standard? Isn't this going too far? Then, President, the final part: identifying, among other things, training for terrorism and financing terrorism as crimes to prepare and facilitate a terrorist crime. Here too, I would like a brief explanation from the Minister. What does this part do in addition to the existing situation? Why is this necessary? Can the Minister give further examples of situations which do and do not fall under this heading? Again, I see criticism from the Bar Association: "In particular, the lower limit is currently not sufficiently defined, while these are acts that are not in themselves punishable by criminal law, visit an Internet website, transfer money, buy clothes and so on." Mr President, I would like to make a final point. I noticed that the Public Prosecutor's Office, the College of Attorneys General, has been asked to respond to this bill, but has not made any comment and therefore accepts the proposal without consideration. Can the Minister explain why this is so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand the Minister needs a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	Madam President. Let me begin by saying that the heartfelt words made by Members of Parliament tonight about former Prime Minister Lubbers show that he has really been a prime minister of all. Some said he was the prime minister of my youth, my school years, my student years. I myself have found a lot of inspiration, to end up here in your Chamber, in the way Ruud Lubbers has worked in politics. I can do him no other honour than briefly qualify in my introductory text how I experience this debate tonight. I note with your Chamber a positive attitude towards this bill. I also see a typical example of the working road, also such an expression that Ruud Lubbers introduced in the Dutch language, to work and no-nonsense, because that is this legislation, to get on with each other. What almost relieved me, in particular, was that I saw that the Members of the House were with each other on swallowtails in order to resolve certain points of dispute. In short, I hope to be able to live up to that positive basic attitude which I have attributed to your Chamber in my first reply. Terrorism is still a constant threat. Terrorists deliberately and knowingly focus on the destruction of society and the threat and killing of innocent individual citizens. That is why we must continue to tackle these often ideologically or otherwise anarchist-driven crime and remain alert to the threat we face. It's complex. There are different types of perpetrators: terrorist organisations, networks and loners. Those perpetrators can make small but also large attacks, one on an individual, the other on a group. Attacks can be well prepared or have a high improvised content and have a variety of targets. This already indicates that terrorist offences are a particular category, which requires particular attention in our criminal law and criminal proceedings. I would like to have said out loud that Al-Qaeda, ISIS and all kinds of lottery tickets to the ISIS tribe still have the intention and capacity to commit attacks in Europe and therefore in the Netherlands. It is clear that the rise of Syrians travelling from ISIS and the attacks they have committed in Europe has led to an intensification of the terrorist approach, but an intensive approach to terrorism is still needed. One part of this is that we continue to work together on an instrument focusing on the intensification of terrorism itself. At the same time, these instruments must do justice to our rule of law. The legislator must continue to monitor whether the regulation provides sufficient opportunities and whether it can combat the practice of crime in a balanced manner, in this case terrorism. Madam President. When we talk about effective legislation, we must always be careful. Nut, necessity, effectiveness and proportionality are very important to legitimise public action and certainly this kind of legislation. That is precisely why we are discussing a legislative proposal this evening which contains a number of important measures which have been carefully considered, but also individually. Madam President. I shall now turn to the questions. I do so on a subject-by-issue basis, but Members have often asked different questions on nuances, so you would like to forgive me if I sometimes go into a subject as much as I do. I think tonight's subject is important enough for that. I shall begin with Mr Verhoeven's question as to why the extension of provisional detention was not chosen for returners only, as is literally stated in the government agreement. Well, it would be strange and, in my legal opinion, not in accordance with our criminal justice system to open a coercive remedy only to a certain group of suspects, whereas that does not apply to other suspects, suspected of exactly the same serious crimes, but without the property of a returner. This will be a strange form of discrimination which will certainly face legal objections. By the way, the public prosecutor's inquiry has shown that the problem of the combination of a low initial suspicion and complex investigation usually does not arise in the case of returners. It is precisely in the case of the arrest of suspects in preparation for attacks in the Netherlands. For these reasons, it is therefore not good to involve the proposed extension only with returners. We cannot afford to restrict the scope of the measure in this way, because it would then be extremely fragile in law and its usefulness would be extremely light. The interesting thing is that you will then have a second constitutional objection, because then you will have very serious doubts about proportionality. That is why you have seen that we have focused entirely on serious terrorist crimes. Mrs Buitenweg has asked how critical judicial review is carried out. There is a wide judicial review. The application of pretrial detention is always decided by the judge, as you know: first by the judge commissioner, then by the court. As you know, three tests are normally important for pre-trial detention. Tonight we are only talking about a containment of one of those three tests. Those other two things, let us say that with one another in this Chamber. I think that's very important. But that one, the serious objections, is reduced and brought to an ordinary suspicion. I see that Mrs Buitenweg wants to interrupt, but I would like to finish my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mrs Buitenweg has seen this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	In the case of terrorist offences, the first stage of pre-trial detention can already take place on the basis of common suspicion. Our proposal is to allow an initial period of detention of 30 days after detention in the event of suspicion of a serious terrorist offence. This can eventually be extended by two times ten days. Then you come out to a total of 50 days. I just said something about the judge. Since it concerns an exception to the normal regime of pre-trial detention, the judge will carefully check whether that exception is at issue, whether there is sufficient information in the file to allow suspicion against the suspect to be assumed and whether that suspicion is specifically a serious terrorist offence. I have another answer to Mrs Buitenweg's question as to whether it is necessary in the light of practice. Do I want to give that first or do you want to interrupt first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	I actually want you to finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mrs Buitenweg has asked a number of interesting questions, but at least a second on this subject. Is the proposed extension of pre-trial detention necessary in practice? Indeed, as I believe Mr Verhoeven said, the proposal comes from the Segers/Samsom motion on extending the scope for the application of provisional detention in the event of a suspicion of terrorism, in particular against returners. As I have already said, an analysis of the practice of detecting terrorism shows that the time for the complex investigation to be carried out is tight. For example, encrypted data carriers are found in case of urgent detention of suspects. Its content may be crucial to achieve the more solid suspicion that is now needed to keep a suspect in remand for more than two weeks, which is additional 30 days. More time for that investigation will prevent the occurrence of a case in which, in the absence of sufficient legal capacity, a suspect in preparation for a terrorist attack should be released. I would like to reiterate the chorus that it still has to be a suspicion of a serious terrorist offence, which is being reviewed by the judge, who also has two other aspects to examine. Now I really need Mrs Buitenweg's interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u119	I'm just trying to get it straight. So there must be a suspicion of a serious crime. So that's the first thing, a suspicion. So it seems as if there is something that the judge is judging, so a form of, yes, evidence, at least 'proof' is going to go too far, something on which the suspicion must be based. Then the minister says, "That one test, about you really having to object, I'm taking it away." Then I think: what is the suspicion? The other two things I leave standing, the Minister says. One is about the fact that there really must be a flight risk or something. The second is that there should be a prison sentence that should not be less than those 50 days. That seems obvious to me in all these matters. So, in fact, the judge checks only one thing, namely that someone is not a flight risk? I'm really trying to understand: what is the critical test?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u120	Well, the critical test is that when it comes to whether or not that pre-trial detention can be dealt with in these serious terrorist crimes, the judge should look at: is there any suspicion? Yeah, that's what he's judge, judge commissioner, council chamber, for. As you know, the judiciary in the Netherlands is independent in this respect, and indeed does so in a truly excellent way. The second is that the judge should indeed look: is this a situation where there could possibly be more than ten days, and then another ten and another ten days? For this, too, the judge must check whether there is a certain probability. Finally, third point, there is the aspect of the flight risk, which is not necessarily related to the first two aspects. But in any case before the courts is another important consideration: do I think it is present here or not? What are we gonna do now? We say: the serious objections, the heavier suspicion, becomes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u121	A light one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u122	That's still gonna be a suspicion. It's not gonna be a slight suspicion. It's not gonna be some kind of light. That's an exaggeration. No, as you know, over time, the longer the detention period, the more serious the suspicions will be. The same goes for other crimes. But it's not like there's some kind of "light" suspicion in the code on the basis of which someone gets insurance. No, it's just suspicion, suspicion of committing a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you. Finally, I have a question about the third condition mentioned in the explanatory statement, namely the anticipation bid I had just not prepared that word. This means that the defendant will not remain in custody for longer than the duration of the unconditional prison sentence he would have if he were indeed found guilty. Isn't that always the case with the crimes at stake? In that sense, isn't that the third condition being tested?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u124	My point is that the judge has three moments in which at least he has to test very well for himself. I do agree with you that, if the judge finds the suspicion present, it will be the suspicion of a serious terrorist offence. Then the second condition is indeed more or less a given, but the judge still has to tick it off for himself. So there could be a situation in which he has thought too lightly, as you fear, where there is a "suspect light." But then he could just make the mistake of actually getting a zero twice, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u126	However, I would like to stress that this care must be exercised by the judge, because Mrs Buitenweg is right to ask for it. I now come to the questions of the MP Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u127	I'm afraid he's indisposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u128	He asked why the possible application of the extension of pre-trial detention may be necessary. In fact, I have already said a few things about this in relation to the position of the prosecution and its investigative interests. I'd like to keep it that way. The MPs Verhoeven and Buitenweg have asked why not only applies to returners. I've indicated what thought is behind that. I therefore refer to the answer to the previous question. Mr De Graaf raised a question about the difference between the letter of amendment and the original proposal. Extending the possibility of applying provisional detention was applicable to all terrorist offences in the original version of the bill. In the letter of amendment, the application is limited to the serious terrorist offences only. This has been done because it is at least the crimes that are usually suspected of returning. Then we are talking about the preparation of terrorist attacks. I have a large number of article numbers in my speech, but you will save them for the sake of peace, so I will just mention Article 96 (2) in conjunction with Articles 114b and 120b, and participation in a terrorist organisation, Article 140a Criminal law. This means that less serious terrorist offences, such as terrorist threats, are excluded. That is not bad in itself, given the practice of terrorism investigation. I would like to draw Mr De Graaf's attention to the fact that, of course, this does not mean that a suspect of a less serious terrorist offence could not be insured and could be put in remand, because in the end the same rules are essentially applicable. However, there must still be serious objections for those concerned. But once again, there is less of an interest in research. I hope that Mr De Graaf understands that this solution, in particular, has been taken care of in order to ensure that this legal problem of involving only those returning to the country is properly dealt with. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij. I have already replied to him in that regard. I refer to the words I have just spoken about this. Then I have the subject of DNA. Before I answer the questions about DNA retention periods, I generally note that this is existing legislation. So we're not gonna change the DNA rules. The bill concerns only the collection of DNA material. Mr Azarkan and Mr Verhoeven asked how we deal with DNA profiles. How do we ensure that they are properly removed? Are those profiles shared and, if so, with whom? For DNA profiles collected, the normal rules of the DNA decision apply. Pursuant to Article 16 of the DNA Decision, the DNA profiles of persons who are no longer suspects must be immediately destroyed. There is an exception to this rule, namely in the case of acquittal or dismissal of all legal proceedings relating to a crime which is subject to review. I'm gonna say that real quick. I have to do that so that it will be placed carefully in the stenogram. Anyway, it doesn't matter now. DNA profiles may only be provided to the persons listed in Article 15 (2) of the DNA Decision. These are experts conducting the DNA investigation, the D.A., the police and the J&V minister. Only the identity data of the person whose DNA profile is concerned, the number of the DNA profile and any match will be reported to the Judicial Information Service. The profile itself is not provided. Mr Verhoeven and Mr Azarkan then asked more or less why the retention periods are necessary. DNA material of convicted persons shall be kept for the purpose of detecting other criminal offences. That is the normal regulation of the DNA decision, which simply applies. Those retention periods shall depend on the seriousness of the offence for which the person was convicted and the penalty imposed on him. The 80-year period shall apply in the case of a conviction for serious sex crimes and if a sentence of more than 40 years has been imposed on a person. Apparently, we socialized once that we want to have the certainty that those DNA data are kept for the theoretical maximum possible life span in someone with a serious sex crime. In the light of the letter on child abuse which I sent to your Chamber on 8 February, you can at least understand as a Chamber that I understand that in itself. Mrs Buitenweg asks why DNA collection is not limited to only serious terrorist crimes. This is an investigative measure which should not only be seen as a means of coercion, but above all as an investigative power that enables the police and the prosecutor to quickly exclude or confirm the involvement of persons in terrorist offences. In practice, it will be mainly about research into the preparation of attacks. In this sense, the parallel that Mrs Buitenweg draws with the extension of pre-trial detention is correct, but I do not rule out the suspicion of other terrorist offences. Given the far less profound nature, the consideration of DNA removal is different from that of pre-trial detention. In how many individuals can DNA data be collected now that the requirement of serious objection lapses? There are no data on this. That is not recorded separately, I say through you to Mr Azarkan. This was DNA. I'm gonna be on the reporting part. The MPs Van Raak and Buitenweg have asked questions about the consequences and the foreseeability of such a precarious measure. It is foreseeable because it only applies to people who really have knowledge of a concrete crime, for example young people who know that members of their group of friends have been radicalised and have arranged their trip to Syria to participate in the terrorist struggle and if that is in the near future another area. Just so we're clear, self-study is not a terrorist crime. So that's not part of it. Then Mrs Buitenweg asked why the obligation to report is not limited to terrorist offences, but I have just answered them. The purpose of the provision is therefore to encourage people who have concrete knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u129	I would like some clarification. In the explanatory memorandum, I quote "Furthermore, during the ongoing negotiations on the new EU Counter-Terrorism Directive, it can be established that the main elements of the draft Directive.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And so on, and so on. That makes me think it's an option that it is now. That's what I said. I referred to the EU directive. It is my concern that the Minister, in my view, should pass by a little too easily, so that everyone knows when to report it. I doubt that, because take the example of criminalisation of self-study for terrorism. You know, does every citizen know he has to go to the police for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u130	I think that is a question that I should like to ask: how can I say that, on the one hand, there is a high philosophical level and, on the other hand, there is a demographic helicopter flight that I cannot do right now. I really need to think about that. Can I answer that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u131	Yes. Then Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u132	I would also like a little more insight into the EU directive and whether this is on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u133	I understand you say that. Yes. I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yes. Then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. I have one more clarifying question about this broad reporting obligation. It is now the case that someone has knowledge that another person is threatening to travel and wants to report it to the police and that the officer will literally say: come back tomorrow. Someone else who knows that doesn't even come forward anymore. He thinks, "Yes, it's not gonna happen to me like what happened to him." This is a real story. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u136	Well, I don't know. Let me put it this way: I don't know, because this is from the past. We are just talking about approximation of legislation, so I think that the standards are simply being tightened up very clearly here. I am confident that this will indeed lead to a change in behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u137	But does that also mean that all police stations are instructed to take it properly? Look, what happened to ISIS has to a large extent also robbed our security services. It took us quite a while to figure out how to act before everyone knew about it. I can also imagine that in other places in the world, unfortunately, this kind of fireplaces can arise, and the question is how we deal with it, how we ensure that people know where to find them. Is there going to be an information campaign? Is there going to be a central number where people can report it? People look for that sometimes, don't they? I had a mother with me once who said: I wanted to report it and I wanted him to be stopped, but I couldn't turn to anyone. How are we gonna organize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg's contribution addressed me on several points, but at least at the point where she reminded us that we are now, of course, looking at how to move forward with this legislation. I understand your concern, but we have to be careful not to see this as some sort of, as the English would say, "wise after the event" legislation, that because things have happened you are going to reason back. I say it very carefully, but the philosopher Wittgenstein says: you must experience life towards the past and live towards the future. What we have learned very clearly from the events you have just mentioned, such as the rise of IS, is that we must ensure that we are able to address people in the vicinity of those who are engaged in radicalisation plans and possibly terrorist attacks. So I have to be honest with you: that is also a standard that will lead to a certain degree of adapted behaviour and also, of course, to the police. By the way, I have to add in one and the same sense of opinion that my experience with the police in the last four and a half months is that there is a great deal of commitment there to intervene in a timely manner on the issue of derailment and radicalisation of young people. But I admit, that's an affluent remark. I want to continue with the reporting obligation. Mr Van der Staaij is worried that too easily no obligation to report is imposed on a person who himself is at risk of being prosecuted. I am, quite frankly, not in favour of nuanced exclusion from the obligation to report to those who might accuse themselves. The numerical principle is a general principle of criminal law in our system. We have to keep it that way. Moreover, when we move in this direction, we would only get highly unreliable declarations. I really don't see any advantage in that. Then there were two questions from Mr Azarkan which I would like to answer. You have expressed your concern that family members should report each other. This does not, of course, apply to the extent that family members have a right to change. Yes, the issue of discrimination. Mr Azarkan expressed his concern that this could lead to discrimination between groups. I would like to make it quite clear that the obligation to report is limited to cases where there is specific knowledge and therefore does not apply to situations where there is only what I refer to as muddle or something like that. That is a really important point. I hope that I have addressed your concerns sufficiently in the context of parliamentary history. Finally, the lower limit for preparatory actions is determined mainly by the design of preparation. If knowledge is borne of the evil intentions, the obligation to declare is shown. Then I come to international policy. Mrs Van Toorenburg and I believe that Mrs Buitenweg have asked a few questions about this. The information of aid organisations operating in and around the IS area may be admissible as evidence in criminal proceedings under the usual conditions. In addition, the International Evidence Collection Mechanism for Syria, the JIM, established in 2016, has started its substantive work. The purpose of this mechanism is to collect evidence, including from NGOs, to ensure that this is not lost and that criminal records can be prepared for future trials. The Netherlands is actively supporting this. It's still developing at the moment, so we don't have any statements yet. Therefore, we cannot yet make any statements about the significance of Dutch criminal law, but the Netherlands is committed to achieving the best possible evidence collection, and to doing so internationally. The Netherlands also provides human capacity for international initiatives to strengthen evidence collection against fighters. This is also stated in the Dutch Parliamentary Letter on the anti-IS mission of September last year. Then I'm gonna come to the county sentence. Why has the government agreement announced a territorial penalty? That is, of course, a question to which I personally have some difficulty in answering because I was not there, but I can explain that to you in this committee. We have to look forward. As Mrs Van Toorenburg said, I have just paraphrased it again and I am doing it again: a criminalisation of staying without permission in an area designated by AMvB may be useful in the future. It cannot be ruled out that in the coming years new centers of jihadism will emerge elsewhere in the world. I hope that my introduction to this issue has been clear enough and that I have sufficiently emphasised that this still poses a great real terrorist risk, a new aspirating effect on Dutch people and, as a result, a danger to national security. Experience with the battle in Syria and Iraq has taught us that it may take some time to get a sufficiently clear picture of the situation on the ground and a successful prosecution for involvement in terrorist crimes. In the meantime, territorial punishment can provide a handle for criminal prosecution. When is that bill submitted, Mr Rutte asked. The bill is in draft. I'll send it to the Council of Ministers in the next week. After agreement, it goes to the Council of State. After receiving the opinion of the Council of State, it goes to the House of Representatives. I will do my utmost to do so at least before the summer recess. Carefulness is important, I suddenly hear floating through space. I'm sure he's willing to act. There are all kinds of legislative proposals that I consider to be of social importance that we should keep a close and careful pace in doing so. Why didn't I take this bill with me right away? Mr Van der Staaij spoke of an instrument that I was very bad with in my youth: the yo-yo. I did it twice, and then he was all messed up again. Maybe with that metaphor it has already been sufficiently explained why it is not now in this one bill. We have seen very well at the ministry that it was wise to reword this point very thoroughly, given that it had come back from the Council of State with criticism, given that it was clearly stated in the government agreement and that I, as Minister of Justice and Security, also see the importance of incorporating this into the law. I also did not want these points to be delayed. I hope that through you I have given Mr Van der Staaij sufficient explanation. Mr Azarkan had a somewhat constitutional question on the criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. As I pointed out, it is possible that in the near future an area penalty could be an important addition to the instruments of new fireplaces, centres of terrorism, possibly elsewhere in the world, where Dutch residents travel. All right, I hope that through you I have also answered Mr De Graaf's questions to this section. Then I would like to touch on a few loose issues, Madam President. But before that, there's going to be a loose question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u139	At the end the Minister almost reassured me on this subject, because he said that that area designation was there, so people knew they were criminal when they travelled there. That means that it only goes for people who travel somewhere, because you can also have the situation that you live in an area that is being taken over by terrorists. If you move out of there, you would almost be punishable under Dutch law. Do I understand correctly that the law that is now coming only applies to people who go there, so not to people who have already stayed there, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u140	Let me put it this way: no final decision has yet been taken on the scope and scope of the legislative proposal. I do not want to disappoint Mrs Buitenweg or make her enthusiastic if I cannot do so now. But it is quite clear that it is going to hit at least the group that is moving in the direction of the criminalised area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u142	Then I have some varia. Mr Van Raak has asked what exactly is covered by preparatory actions. I will make a general comment on this. In this context, Article 134a of the Criminal Code mentions the deliberate opportunity, intelligence, means, knowledge or skills to commit a terrorist offence. The general preparation of Article 46 of the Criminal Code refers to objects, means of transport and spaces intended for the commission of a crime. In practice, these concepts are given concrete, factual meaning. Mrs Buitenweg has asked what needs to be proven for human trafficking as a preparatory fact. Trafficking in human beings is a preparatory act for terrorism if it can be linked to terrorist crimes. It will have to be proved that a terrorist target has been involved in assisting in providing access to the Netherlands or another EU Member State. So smuggling must have been motivated to facilitate the commission of terrorist offences. That intention can be demonstrated by witness statements and interviews, but perhaps also by e-mails or other documents. Then there was another question with a rather high abstract content, this time from Mr De Graaf. Is Islam the same as jihadism? At least that question came to my mind. I would like to make this very clear to you. Violent jihadists invoke Islam. It could be said that jihadism is an entirely perverted form of Islam, just as other religions also have completely perverted extremist forms. But I think a theologian could still say to me: no, jihadism is a form of violence that is wrongly based on Islam. This is going to be a very philosophical scientific debate. I have to say immediately that, although I did finish my studies, I do not really think I was prepared to do so. But I would like to say very clearly that I am absolutely not concerned here with fighting a religion, not with fighting Islam either. It is about combating extremism, about extremism, about using any excuse or reason to show extreme behavior or to engage in terrorist activities. With this last sentence, I also immediately replied to Mr Azarkan's question. It is, of course, all forms of serious terrorist crime that are at stake in the end, no matter what kind of deception the terrorist thinks he should lay the foundations for his disgusting crimes. Finally, I would like to stress that, within our society, the resilience against that kind of extremism is still high, including within the Dutch Muslim community. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u143	In addition to what the minister said: jihad literally means striving for a goal. In Arabic it's called striving. Today that is interpreted as something extremely negative, but in essence it is the pursuit of fighting evil within yourself. That's the literal translation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u144	Is this a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u146	I said what I said and how I qualified jihadism and jihad fighters, and I am not taking back a word of that. The SGP has asked for the evaluations. The Temporary Act anti-terrorism administrative measures takes effect after five years and entered into force in March 2017. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap entered into force in March 2017 and also expires after five years. I would also like to point out that this cabinet, like its predecessors, is constantly monitoring policy and legislation in the light of actuality and practice. My very modest experience in these almost four months is that you, as a Chamber, regularly ask me critical, searching questions about this. Mr Van der Staaij wondered whether the designation as a preparatory fact of training in, among other things, Article 134a would create a kind of knotted criminal acts leading to criminal liability for neutral acts. No, it's not. Too wide a criminal liability is prevented by the fact that specific acts that have been punishable in the context of terrorism are always punishable only if they have been committed intentionally. It is therefore not possible for a neutral act to be suddenly placed in the key to terrorism and punishable. I hope I have said that with enough emphasis. I'm almost there, Madam President. There were a lot of questions. Mr Azarkan has asked if there is more frequent acquittal in terrorism cases. Police and prosecutors are very intensively engaged in criminal investigations into terrorist suspects. As you know, the D.A. has, for example, launched a criminal investigation into all extravagants. This means that there are currently dozens of investigations into one or more suspects, which are actively investigated. The Public Prosecutor's Office still stresses that the number of investigations shows that there is a real social problem. In doing so, the public prosecutor says that this legislative proposal is a very good contribution to the instruments used to carry out the investigations. The deployment of police and prosecutors will produce results. Over the last two years, dozens of criminal cases against mainly Syrians have been brought to justice. Except for a few of them, they've led to convictions. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about the question of the Election Council. He asked why the opinion was not taken into account in order to allow the expulsion of the right to vote in respect of these crimes. The Election Council recommended that also in the case of offences under Articles 121a, 123a and 124a, the right to vote may be revoked. These crimes are not terrorist offences and are therefore outside the scope of this legislative proposal. We have been asked whether the right to vote will be definitively withdrawn. The duration of the deprivation has been extended for the duration of the main sentence imposed by a minimum of two years and a maximum of five years. Then I have another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u147	That is right, Mrs Buitenweg's amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u148	Yes! That's right. There I saw that beautiful swallowtail floating through the building, Madam President, to pay tribute to Mr Lubbers again. The amendment aims to allow an evaluation of that law to take place after five years. That's fine. I also agree with the comments made on the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice. But that does not apply to the second part of the amendment: the promotion of a legislative proposal to abolish the law. I do not see these measures as temporary exception legislation. That's what I really want to say out loud. These are serious terrorist crimes. And I think that we are sending a wrong signal to social and also to the potential future perpetrators when we say: well, we are doing this for five years, and in five years we will stop and evaluate it. When I heard Mrs Buitenweg say this for the first time, I really understood her approach to legislative proposals on other subjects. I thought for the first time: but why am I doing it? I only thought that for a moment, Madam President, but I think this is essential legislation. Otherwise, my introduction will fall into the water. I have said that this is still something that is deeply disrupting society and affecting individual citizens. It is not for nothing that we have said to each other that is the positive basic position that I then feel that we want to impose a few serious terrorist offences more severely on a few points. That doesn't add up when you say we're gonna do it for five years, and then it's just gonna stop. So I really can't agree to that. I imagine we'll agree to review the law in five years' time. That would be somewhere in 2023. Or am I too hopeful now? So I must say that I reject the amendment in this form, with that second part. If that second part were to expire in the second period, I could suddenly be in a different place. You know the expression of Henri of Navarre, who eventually decided to become a Catholic in order to conquer Paris, because then he could marry the daughter of the king: Paris vaut bien une messe. That evaluation is very worth it to me to get GroenLinks on our side as well. Paris vaut bien une messe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yes, Mrs. Buitenweg. It's Valentine's Day, I hear you say. You can say it in the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u150	I don't want to interrupt this romantic moment. But I have another question about the year of 2023 which the Minister mentioned, because the text of the amendment refers to 'within five years'. The Minister mentioned a few other evaluation moments. Would it also be possible to do it a little earlier than those five years, but linked to the evaluation of another law, so that we do not all get separate evaluations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u151	I understand your point. Indeed, when we say "in five years," we don't have that problem anymore. By the way, I regret that the romantic moment was interrupted, but if someone proposes to me with a yo-yo, you understand: that is not an alternative. That's it for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term on the part of the Chamber, if there is a need for it. I think that's the case. Then I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr. Chairman. We started with a strong debate on far-reaching but also necessary legislation. The minister ended with a romantic moment and quoted some philosophers and others here and there. That's all beautiful. My knowledge doesn't go far beyond Youp of the Hek, who once sang that Paris is close when you're in love. I think that is also in line with what has been said today. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna file a motion first, or I'm gonna go over time. I'll explain to her in a minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the letter of amendment accompanying the bill strengthens criminal law approach terrorism extends the pre-trial detention without serious objection for a specific category of suspects of a serious terrorist offence;]] [[Whereas the detention of a suspect without serious objection constitutes an infringement of the right to freedom and should be handled with extreme restraint;]] [[Whereas criminal investigations into persons suspected of committing serious terrorist offences in areas of conflict abroad may take up for a longer period of time due to difficult evidence gathering in such areas;]] [[noting that this letter of amendment gives some scope to apply the measure in question to persons suspected of the same serious crimes but who have not stayed, or who are not clear whether they have previously resided in combat areas abroad;]] [[Considers that in the case of suspects of serious terrorist offences who have not resided in a combat area abroad, application is only fair if such application is made in exceptional cases;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the use of this measure in practice and to inform the Court annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34746-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u154	I welcome what has been said about the extension of remand. I understood the Minister's explanation, too. The point about DNA was also clear. The obligation to report therefore has its limitations in relation to the target group and the fact that it really must be based on knowledge. I thought that was a reassuring answer. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I am clear about the territorial penalty: I am holding my heart. I know it's in the coalition agreement, too. I am not running away from that at all, but it must be done in a good way. I am very pleased with the care taken by the Minister, also looking at previous opinions from the Council of State, for example. Mr. Chairman. One last point. I found Mrs Buitenweg's amendment on the clean-up law a very creative proposal. As far as the last piece is concerned, I actually agree with the Minister. This is not temporary legislation. That's why we're treating it carefully. If Mrs Buitenweg takes that out, we will wholeheartedly support that amendment. Then we have both an evaluation and a motion of D66 that, in my opinion, brings this law into the perfect balance we seek. As I tried to say in the interrupting debates with Mrs Buitenweg: the last piece, about having to re-table a law that would remove documents from this law, should indeed be removed. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the many questions that have been asked this evening. I almost let him down. I'd like to defend myself a little. The Minister says that he thinks it is very important legislation, which is effective and necessary. My argument was that this necessity had not yet been demonstrated. That's why I made the proposal I made. At the same time, I have heard him very well that it is something different from the previous administrative provisions, which were somewhat more in a crisis atmosphere and which do have a horizon. In that respect, I am prepared to amend my amendment. Then we'll leave the evaluation. It will then take place after five years, I think. Let me come back to the deadlines that Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned. I would like to ensure that all this is in line, but of course it is fundamentally different. I believe that the other issues are also concerned with the expiry of the legislation. So I would like to comment on that, because that is different from that of administrative law. I almost got happy again with the idea that we were all going to do it all at once, but I don't think that's your intention. But in that respect, I will therefore table an amended amendment. In the second term, I still hope for some insights from the Minister on a number of issues, such as the defendant's self-study. I think that is necessary because I really think it is important that the law is foreseeable. I think that it is precisely in this area that I mentioned the obligation to report and the criminalisation of self-study for terrorism if one of the examples is very difficult for mothers to foresee when to go to the police. I am pleased to have some additional information on this. For the rest, I'm critically-constructive. That way I will take it to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Arno Rutte waived their address. I call Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To return to Paris... My favorite cycling philosopher, Joop Zoetemelk, always says: Paris is still far. That is entirely the case after hearing the Minister's reply, for which I am grateful. Given the solution I asked for, or given the analysis and diagnosis of the problem there is, Paris is certainly still far away. And that's what I'm talking about figuratively. We are not going to have a theological discussion on this bill at the moment, but I note that the way the Minister looks at his task and has studied Islam still requires a great deal to be done in order to be able to diagnose it. On the contrary, I see this as a task for the Minister to do, because that is the biggest problem of our time. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. One motion is on this. The other motion concerns part of the terrorist threat. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Islam has been sowing terror, death and destruction over the world for 1,400 years with the purpose of submission to Islam;]] [[Whereas, first of all, a proper diagnosis should be made in the fight against terrorism;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise Islam as the main cause of terror and terrorist threats in the Netherlands and to focus its anti-terrorism measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34746-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u159	The second motion is very brief. It is about one of the measures needed to tackle part of the problem. We have tabled this motion before, precisely because of the influx of people from outside. That could include ISs and perhaps Boko Haram's, Al-Nusra's and Al-Qaeda's. It's known to happen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders for all asylum seekers and all immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Graaf and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34746-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In a number of parts he has answered the questions in such a way that we are able to make a better balance. I have taken note with interest of the coalition motion, if I may sum it up in this way. Mrs Buitenweg's amended amendment gives us reason to study this further. We'll wait for the sequel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you. The two motions of the PVV are coming up, Minister. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. Let's start with... I'm getting some now. Thank you. Ah, these are the motions. Then there's the question of self-study. Self-study is punishable, but it is not a terrorist offence, see Article 134a Penal Code. It is important to me that the obligation to report should at least encourage those people to go to the police who have specific knowledge of terrorist offences and do not really want to report them. What is then the legal qualification is less important. By the way, a citizen can always report a criminal offence, so that also applies to other acts of terrorism. You refer to this European directive... Shall I continue with my reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u163	Yes, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to continue with his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u164	Yeah, I saw that was gonna happen. The Directive, Directive 2017/541, requires the criminalisation of a number of offences which so far did not exist in legal legislation. Then we are talking about financing terrorism, travelling for the purpose of committing terrorist crimes and training ourselves for terrorism, including self-study. All these crimes are already punishable in the Netherlands. Unlike most EU Member States, the Netherlands has always opted for a broad implementation of previous international instruments and are always aligned with new forms of terrorism. Implementation only requires the identification of a crime in the sphere of cybercrime, Article 138 (5), Criminal Code, as a terrorist offence, i.e. if that crime is committed for a terrorist purpose, and the designation of a crime such as terrorist training and terrorist financing as a crime in the category "crimes for the preparation or facilitation of terrorist offences', Article 83b, Criminal Code. That's what this bill's gonna do. Then Mrs Buitenweg asked me, 'I think I am obliged to do this to Mrs Buitenweg in view of her constructive attitude towards the territorial penalty.' It will also apply to people who are already there. They shall be granted a period of time to request permission if they reside in an area designated by AMvB or they must leave that area within that period. That's what we're gonna talk about before the recess. I shall now move on to the motions. I do not need to talk about the amendment anymore, because I have already said that I welcome it. The amendment states: within five years. That also seems to me to be a practical solution to the point raised by Mr Van der Staaij. Then the motion to part No. 9 by Mr Verhoeven. I see this motion as supporting my explanation of the letter of amendment. I am happy to inform the Chamber annually about the number of times the measure has been applied and against which category of suspects. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then there were two motions from the PVV. The motion in part No. 10 calls for Islam to be recognised as the main cause of terrorist threats in the Netherlands and to focus anti-terrorism measures on them. I refer to what I mentioned earlier in the debate about jihad fighters and jihadism, and my explanation is that it is wrong to confuse it with or equate it with Islam. That means I'm deceiving this motion. I don't think I need to repeat that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u165	The Minister's going a little further. In his answer in the first period, he showed some doubt as to how Islam and jihadism are interwoven. Jihadism is in Islam like the egg in the chicken or chick in the egg. But now the Minister literally states that it is incorrect, whereas I asked as a minister in the second term to deepen knowledge of this important task, without simply closing it. 'Cause otherwise I'm gonna have to use the word "look away" and I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u166	Madam President, I have just repeated that the identification of Islam with jihadism, which is more or less reflected in this motion, is incorrect. I don't endorse it. I haven't done that before. Let's just say that's not the same thing. If you would like to take a look at the text for a second, I have got a copy of the text, but now I am going to go to my former scientific background and see no scientific evidence that would lead me to judge this motion differently than to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u167	Still, I find this striking. The Minister said in his reply in the first term that he does not know. That he thinks it's wrong is an opinion. That he doesn't want this theological discussion, I'm fine with it. You don't have to now, tonight. But then you can't say it's incorrect, because I just didn't provide the scientific evidence, when I drew from the sources. That is in itself scientific enough, but I can imagine that the Minister would like to go into this a little further in order to find out. That's how we grew up together in the west. If we don't know for sure, we'll start looking. I did. That's where the motion came from. But to say, as a minister without any background or doubt on his part, that it is incorrect does not make sense to me. That's not scientific.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u168	The fact that this Minister sometimes does not know things is the only point I would like to admit to Mr De Graaf. I explained in the first term that I see jihadism and the jihad struggle at the most as a very perverted form of Islam, but in fact I said that, as far as I am concerned, the argument of Islam is a misguided one. I have explained this in more detail. This means that I am going to repeat myself, and I am not going to go anywhere near any other judgment than to advise against a motion which, as a member of the government, asks me to recognise Islam as the main cause of terrorist threats in the Netherlands. I would go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. I'm referring to my first term. Then there is the motion in part No. 11 of the PVV. It calls on the government to close the Dutch borders to all asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries. I note that this motion has no self-explanatory justification, but I am prepared to read it back in the reasons for the motion in part No. 10, namely, the thesis that Islam has been sowing terror, death and destruction over the world for 1,400 years with the aim of subjugating Islam. Also in the light of what I said earlier, I can only advise against this motion. Madam President, I would like to conclude with a statement. I may not be allowed to do that, but I will anyway. I would like to say that today, after 35 years, the legislative officer Menno Bouwes is hearing a second term from the minister for the last time, and that is a special moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u169	That is indeed a special moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u170	I don't know which of the gentlemen he is. Would you stand up, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u171	Bye. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u172	This was my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
