ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the debate on the Fourth Anti-money laundering Directive. I welcome the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice and Security, as well as the MPs and the people at home. Seven speakers have come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about an anti-money laundering directive being implemented. I think that broad support can be found in the Chamber, at least that would be my assessment. In any case, it has the support of the PvdA Group. I will draw attention to a number of issues. First of all, the most important thing, namely the register of stakeholders which states who ultimately owns companies, is not part of this legislative proposal. This is not such a problem in itself, but it is a very important issue to combat money laundering and to combat fraud and corruption. With the SP we have another bill under discussion about the central shareholder register. I do that with Mr Van Nispen and perhaps with Mrs Leijten. We'll see about that. I would like to ask the government some questions about this, because the register of stakeholders is coming up. But how does the government view the central shareholder register? That's just another thing. One is about who the final interested party is. The other concerns who holds shares in e.g. companies and other companies. If you really want to have a look at who owns something, I think both are necessary. I have three cases on the law itself. First of all, the scope. Casinos are gonna fall under it now, too. The big ones were already covered and now so are the gambling halls. That's all fine. Reading this, I was wondering if there are other sectors to which this would apply. I can imagine that car dealers and car rental companies that rent fat Ferrari's are also on the nomination when you talk about money laundering, drug dealers and the kind of people who deal with it. You might want to look at what sectors they spend their money in. Actually, I missed that in the bill. Is that over? If so, what was the result? If not, why not? That seems to me to be a good approach. Of course, you can look at amounts. The law says €10,000. So if you arrive with a bag of $10,000, you're screwed. But you can also get rid of your money in other ways. You can look at more risky sectors. Is that over? What came out of that? The second concerns fines. I saw a proposal from the VVD and the SP. They propose to impose higher fines on money laundering. That in itself has the support of the PvdA Group. It's a good thing money launderers get caught. It is mainly intended as a deterrent, because the number of cases in which fines are actually imposed is still far too limited. I would like not only to be informed of the fines but also to receive a response from the cabinet on the chance of being caught. We can all lay down higher fines in the law, but if they are never imposed in the end, their deterrent effect is not so great. That would be a shame. Third. We all have a bit to do with the so-called PEPs, the people who carry out political posts. They're being screened extra. I've been a part of that myself. On the one hand, you think: well, it's nice of me to be screened for that. On the other hand, I wonder what the effectiveness of that is exactly when I sit for 45 minutes talking to someone who asks if I have another million on the bench in Russia. If I say no, he says, "Well, good." Does that conflict with the administration and the forms that all have to be filled out? I have some reservations about that. So I am also asking about its implementation. That's what I'm calling attention to. Before Mr Paternotte thinks I have a million in Russia, I say: that is really not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u4	In the case of colleague Nijboer, we also understand that he does not have a million in Russia. My question is about the conversation. I went through that myself when I applied for a mortgage. Then someone said, "God, I got a hit." Then a meaningful silence fell and the person said: oh yes, you are in the House of Representatives. After that, it was done. My question is, therefore, whether Mr Nijboer can take us with him for the rest of the 45 minutes without repeating it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u5	Before we get completely into the private situation: it was a mortgage in this case. I've asked a little bit about it and they don't tell me, of course, but my impression was that they're looking at who they're dealing with from flesh and blood and whether they're doing a bit of good. I got that in my head. With Mr. Paternotte, they thought, "That's not necessary, because he's such a good man that we believe it right away." I don't know what it was because of me. So I think the design is very different. That's what you hear from councilmen who have to deal with it, too. It makes more impression one time than the other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u6	Let me be clear: I would immediately give Mr Nijboer a mortgage. You don't want to remember a good man like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u8	Mr Nijboer continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u9	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u10	There you go. Thank you. We've been through this interruption with each other. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr Mulder just whispered to me that it can be done in two minutes, but I'm going to use all eight. Mr. Chairman. I want my kids to be safe on the street. I don't want drug dealers to be able to race around the city in fat Mercedes. I don't want to see a bomb explode somewhere in the Netherlands that turns out to have been paid through my own bank. We can never guarantee complete safety in the Netherlands. As a politician, we can work very hard on it. That's what today's about. We are going to transpose the fourth anti-money laundering directive into Dutch law. Legislation that allows us to deal with the financiers of criminals and terrorists. With this, the European Union is doing what it is meant to do: the same way of making life miserable for criminals everywhere. With every directive we get better at that. So the VVD welcomes this bill. But: making rules is one, maintaining is two, and punishing is three. I asked written questions about money laundering earlier this year. The odds of getting caught are still way too low. The WODC investigated that a few years ago. At that time, it was concluded that some EUR 16 billion was laundered per year. If you look at the latest figures, as far as I know from 2012, you see that only a few transactions were reported, accounting for a few hundred million euros. Frighteningly little. Can the Ministers indicate what the figures are now? What, I ask both ministers, can we do concretely to improve enforcement? Does the Minister of Finance have a permanent dialogue with financial institutions in order not to miss an opportunity to achieve ever better enforcement? I refer, for example, to a September 2016 motion by the VVD and ChristenUnie, calling for a better picture of money flows from non-free countries in order to counter radicalisation. Can both ministers tell us what is going on with that? Making rules is one, maintaining is two, punishing is three. The VVD welcomes the bill, but it can be better. In this country, where 16 billion is laundered every year, the maximum penalty would be EUR 5 million or 10% of the annual turnover. That's a dime. If we really want to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, we need to impose sanctions that are really terrifying. I have therefore tabled an amendment with Mrs Leijten to double the maximum penalties. Does it matter? Yeah, that makes a difference. With a fine of 10% of your sales, you sigh deep and you just keep going. With a 20% fine, you're finished for the time being. That's exactly the point. We really want to give the supervisor more resources to do justice with this. Of course, the supervisor will have the room to impose a lower fine, but we want to send a clear signal. There is zero place in the Netherlands for the laundering of criminal money and the financing of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you. We were both looking for a natural moment for the interruption. You found that yourself, thank you for that. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u13	I'd like to come back to the block and keep it. The VVD has now run the country for many years in a row, has made work of a smaller government and has been successful in doing so. But it is precisely when it comes to the capacity of the police or the FIOD, or to the picking-they activities, that you see that there are too few people, too few hands to maintain adequately. Do I hear the VVD making a plea for a good business case behind it to spend more public money on hands that are going to do this job?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u14	The answer is yes. I believe that we have taken very clear measures in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u15	When and by what amount do you think this will be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u16	You ask questions that belong on another committee. Let me start with that. My question to the Minister is: what do you need from us to do this? I think we'd like that question answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u17	Mr Ronnes has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u18	I hear the VVD say: the moment you notice that there are abuses, you have to punish them and if you can, you have to be strict. Hence the proposal to double the fines, if I have heard correctly. How does this relate to the line that the VVD normally chooses not to make headlines on European legislation implemented in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u19	In this case, I would like to make an exception. I told you, rules are one, enforcement is two, punishment is three. We're dealing with the rules here. The ministers are about enforcement. For the Minister of Finance, this goes through all kinds of regulators. The judge's gonna talk about punishment. All we can do is raise that sentence. That seems to me to be an extremely effective step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u20	Finally, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u21	The answer is clear. It means that the VVD really does make exceptions when it comes to heads of European regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u22	Yes, when we have to catch bad guys, we like to make an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u23	Mr Van der Linde continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u24	Mr. Chairman. The safety we're all working on has a price. Dutch banks must be chasing their dear customers like detectives. That puts the relationship under pressure and it costs tens of millions a year. So we need to look carefully at whether all the measures we are taking here are sensible and proportionate. Will the Minister of Finance continue to monitor this? How is it prevented that especially small institutions become too small to comply and succumb under regulation? Then we won't be able to effectively scan for money laundering after that. Then there are a few technical points. First of all, the UBO register. Of course, we want to know of every euro in a legal person whose wallet that euro ends up in. Then it doesn't matter if the money was pumped around via a nv or an e.g. or a partnership or a tricky construction via Jersey. Someone is going to enjoy that money personally at some point, and in the context of money laundering, you want to know who that is. We call that gentleman or lady UBO or, in good Dutch, ultimately interested. Anyway, let's say UBO. The Minister of Finance states that the UBO register will be developed later in a legislative proposal, but he will go into it in the explanatory memorandum. Do I understand now that it is the ambition to really regulate this for every legal person, that a UBO should be able to be designated everywhere? That means even Natural Monuments will have an UBO. That's gonna lead to some crazy situations. Can the Minister of Finance state what that means in practice? Suppose: Natuurmonumenten gets a bequest of a million whose origin is not immediately clear. So what bells are gonna ring at the bank? Which driver of Natuurmonumenten is then addressed as UBO? What kind of questions can he or she expect from the bank? While I am at it, can the Minister indicate who is the UBO of the Football Club Feyenoord, the CDA and the State of the Netherlands? What happens if these legal entities get an unclear bequest? They all have legal personality, they're all clients in the sense of this bill. I ask that question because those banks will have to ask that question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u25	That calls for two interruptions. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u26	What that register of the ultimate interested party wants to avoid, of course, is that all kinds of constructions are used to pretend that you are not an owner, allowing you to avoid tax or evade tax, finance terrorism, finance wars, trafficking in women... We've all seen it come along. Just to prevent someone from diving behind a construction, we're gonna make that register. I hope these essential questions are not a prelude of the VVD and a harbinger of the VVD to deal with that register a little less firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u28	I was shocked by the Minister's reply to the questions about that register. In fact, he says that highly trained staff from a trust office could ultimately be involved in a financial construction, whereas those trust offices are often used to cover up, as it is called, the interested party. They'll pretend you don't exist for the IRS or the Justice Department. Does the VVD agree with me that we should avoid that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u29	Thank you. Those are two questions to Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u30	No and yes. I say no, because it is totally impossible for us to weaken anything. But I just want to look at the feasibility of things. That is why I say: what is the point of a UBO from the CDA, to name but a few? So that's what we're gonna do. We're going to point out a UBO for a lot of charities and I'm just wondering what that means for the feasibility. Yes, you're absolutely right to ask why we're going to apply this to trusts. We do that, of course, because we want to combat tax evasion. So we are in complete agreement on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u31	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u32	Suppose the party you were talking about, the CDA, gets a very unclear bequest from some weird tax haven; it doesn't matter whether it's blacklisted or not. If it's not clear who it belongs to, maybe it'll tell you something about that party, huh? I don't know how the VVD handles it, but would you accept it if you didn't know where it came from? That is quite a discussion and I understand that the CDA is a bit out of this, but you can of course also say: I do not want this because I do not know where it comes from and I do not know where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u34	That's what I was gonna say. The final beneficiary, including Feyenoord, the CDA or the SP, can eventually be the foundation and I think that as a beneficiary, this foundation can indeed be in the UBO register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u35	I don't know if there really was a question in there. But those questions are, of course, justified, and that is why I am putting them to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u36	Thank you. You rightly say that; there was no question in it. I gave you a chance to comment on that. Very nice that the CDA stays in place, because they have been mentioned a few times. Respect for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u37	In a respectful manner, by the way, Mr President. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u38	That, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u39	But it's just that the minister happens to be from the CDA house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u40	That's right. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u41	There are, of course, charities like Natural Monuments and less charities like the CDA. In the case of the CDA, of course, it also applies that the Financing Act applies to political parties. An unknown bequest should probably not end up in the party cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u42	It's not about the CDA and your question is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u43	My question to Mr Van der Linde, President, is indeed about the UBO. We have also read that the government wants to work with a limit for the UBO status of 25% shareholding. That means you can hide the final UBO behind the scenes by simply cutting it five times and dividing it into five stromens. In the past De Nederlandsche Bank worked with a 10% limit to determine what a UBO was. My question to Mr Van der Linde is whether he also thinks that we should perhaps tighten up that limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u44	You are now testing me on my knowledge of this bill. I hope the Minister will correct me if I say it wrong, but I think the previous directive specifically stated that we would take 25% and we are now moving away from it in order to ensure a more effective approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u45	We are now abandoning it in the sense that it is becoming an indication, but that indication is still a leading indication. My question is whether you think that you should tighten that indication to a level where the threshold is much higher, so that you cannot hide the UBO by cutting a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u46	No. I do share Mr Paternotte's fear that you can make yourself invisible through improper constructions and cuttings, but I had the feeling that it is well regulated in this directive. If the Minister feels otherwise, I would be delighted to hear it from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u47	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u48	I do have one more question about personal security, and it is important. The Directive requires a UBO register so that parties with a legitimate interest can identify the UBO of each legal person. But do I understand that the Minister of Finance intends to place that UBO register with the Chamber of Commerce? Can every Dutchman find out for €2.50 who is the major shareholder of any company? This directive is intended to make Europe a bit safer, but now it will be very easy for criminals to get information about big shareholders and therefore about entrepreneurial Dutch people. That information should be protected as far as we are concerned. The VVD will make this an important point when dealing with the legislative proposal. For the record, the point is that this information is not accessible to people with bad intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u49	This calls for an interruption to Mr Van der Lee. Your second interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u50	I have two questions for the colleague of the VVD. First of all, what does foreign experience teach us? Look at Sweden, where this kind of information is already accessible. Secondly, you insist on enforcement, but if we protect this, it means that authorities from other countries must also take much more steps to get to that information. They're gonna have to file legal aid applications. It is also much better for enforcement that this is simply recorded transparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u51	I don't have to think about that. You'll have built up your own company and put your name and name in a register somewhere, putting your whole family at risk of kidnapping and I don't know! That seems extremely undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u52	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u53	It is a pity that the VVD is so sensitive to scaring at this point. You have to work evidence-based in this area and look at countries that have already taken these steps, at what is actually happening there. Now you're making it way too easy for people to keep certain information locked down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u54	And your question? Or was this more of a closing remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u55	Well, I hope I managed to convince him. And on that second point: there is a call for enforcement, but look at foreign authorities. It would also be much easier for them if they could get to that register quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u56	There will undoubtedly be a way for foreign authorities, but I note now that GroenLinks apparently considers transparency more important than the security of individuals. The VVD won't take that step. Mr. Chairman. The great absentee in this fourth anti-money laundering directive are, of course, cryptocurrency. It says enough that there is yet another revision of this fourth money laundering directive in Brussels. The VVD welcomes the attention to the risks of crime with cryptocurrency. The rapid developments in fintech mean that the legislator is always one step behind. We must do everything we can to prevent criminals from using this delay to launder money. The question is, therefore, when does the Minister intend to do this and when can the Chamber discuss this revision? I'm rounding up. We now have the fourth money laundering directive and the VVD strongly supports it. I hope that ministers will see combating money laundering and terrorist financing as a permanent priority. The minister of finance's predecessor, Gerrit Zalm, liked to say that Al Capone was eventually caught not by justice, but by the U.S. Treasury Department. And this Minister of Finance too, together with his colleague in the judiciary, I trust very well to catch the bad guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u57	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u58	Let me start with a quote from the introduction: "Whitewashing and the financing of terrorism often take place in an international, cross-border context, so that measures taken only at national level would have too limited effects." That's absolutely true; there's not a word of that lying. However, "regulations which are introduced only at European Union level would have only a limited effect'. This says not only the PVV, but the Dutch government itself states in the introduction to the explanatory statement that "only a limited effect'. Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, money laundering and terrorist financing at international level must be tackled vigorously, but effectively and not half-softly. The PVV therefore advocates cooperation in a truly international context and not only very limited at EU level. In addition, the proposal provides for fines for banks and other financial companies. There are even proposals to raise those fines here tonight. However, the PVV considers it very undesirable that the own funds of a bank or a financial institution should be affected if a fine is imposed. Our proposal is to affect the financial position of the responsible directors themselves. Take away drivers and other responsible people's shares, options and bonuses if they are guilty of money laundering. It is not the shareholders or taxpayers who have to pay for banks' malpractices, but the directors themselves. Is the Minister prepared to address those responsible for money laundering in their pockets instead of taxpayers? Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u59	Thank you, but it calls for an interruption by Mr Van der Linde. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u60	It is not clear to me whether the PVV is for or against the measure in question. Are you going to agree to this or anything? You seem to want to change something, but I have not seen an amendment. Where's the PVV going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u61	I asked a question. I assume that if the answer is positive, we will get a change to this. Furthermore, I am sorry that I have not been able to make it clear in my speech, but that we are going to vote against it once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u62	A clear answer, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u63	And if there is an amendment or an amendment, are you suddenly in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u64	No, I said we're against it on two fronts. Firstly, we want to contribute to such a proposal, but then it must have real effect. If the proposers themselves say that this implementation of the EU directive only makes a very limited contribution to the fight against money laundering, we think that is nonsense. Then do it right at once. That's point one. The second point is also a direct response to my colleague's proposal. It's really nice that we're dealing with the financial institutions. But we have seen in recent years that when an institution gets difficult it doesn't have to pay the drivers for the costs, but the taxpayers who have to keep banks up. I heard my colleague's conviction that something really needs to be done. If you really want to do something, take on the people who are responsible. Make sure that European citizens, Dutch taxpayers, do not again have to pay for the mistakes of the drivers. Take those people. As far as your amendment is concerned, it would be very nice if my colleague could amend one thing in the amendment. It is not the financial institutions that deal with this, but the directors themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u65	For the record, you have not tabled an amendment yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u66	Certainly not, we have a minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u67	That was a question, too. Do you still have an interruption, Mr. Van der Linde?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u68	Then I note that the PVV has not contributed to the written round, has not tabled an amendment to redirect it to the right direction for the PVV and is therefore simply against it. Then what is the point of participating in a debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u69	Then I note that the VVD plays the same game all the time: in advance they say that they do not want to sit down with the PVV and demand that we all make new proposals afterwards. No, we're not like that. Or we talk to you and then we actively participate in the writing of all kinds of proposals. And if you continue in the attitude 'we do not want to talk to the PVV', then we ask questions about the proposals that are coming. That's what we did here tonight. Again, we are against two points. The first is that it itself states that this proposal makes a very limited contribution. We're sorry to hear that. Then do it right at once. The second is that we do not want to play along with the VVD game that if mistakes are made by financial institutions, then the bill will fall to the Dutch taxpayer. We've seen that enough already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u70	Thank you. That calls for an interruption. I have said, as I see it, two interruptions in two. So would you like to spend your second interruption on this, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u71	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u72	Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u73	I think I'll just say it just in case. It was a bit of a cliffhanger. But Mrs Leijten still has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u74	No, Mr. Chairman. I have more of a point of order. I understand that you say that this is a legislative proposal and is briefly registered, so we are trying to limit it. But it's a bill, so I wouldn't take it as a limit to two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u75	I don't see everyone nodding yes yet, so let's basically stick to two interruptions. If there is a need for more money, you have just seen me in the previous debate, too, then there is some flexibility in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u76	Well, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that you are critical of your own group colleague, even though you are here as chairman on behalf of all of us. But I would like to point out that this is legislation. It is not a debate, it is a 30-member debate. Even if someone has registered for two minutes and still needs twenty minutes, that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u77	Thank you. I've listened to you very carefully. In principle, two interruptions in two, but there is some flexibility because it is legislation. I shall give you the floor immediately, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u78	Mr. Chairman. Tax constructions are used to pay less tax, lawful or not allowed. I always think it's a bit of a sham discussion. If a legislator makes it possible to pay much less tax, for example for multinationals, then we call it avoidance. If you don't like it and hide it from the IRS, it's evasion. But, yeah, materially, it's both the same: you put a finger on society that needs that money for matters of general interest. Those same financial arrangements are also used for much more serious matters, even though non-payment of tax is also serious, namely to conceal money that cannot really see the light of day. Then it could be about money laundering, making money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money Actually, that's what my colleague from the VVD said. It's about money obtained from crime. Drug sales, exploitation of women, fraud, blackmail, it doesn't matter. Those tax structures are used for this, because they hide. They're set up through all kinds of shortcuts, so you don't see who's behind it anymore, who's interested in that money. We know that this is also happening in the criminal circuit, in the country that was mentioned yesterday by its own police as threatening to become a narco state in which a lot of money can be made from criminal activities, money that is then reinvested in the real economy without proper detection. The police, the public prosecutor and the tax authorities have been working more closely together for a short time, but still they don't know how to indicate, not quantify, how often tax constructions are used for criminal money laundering. I actually think that is the first sad notation of this debate. These were parliamentary questions to which we received an answer on 3 October last. That was not very long ago and I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance how we are going to improve this. How are we going to ensure that we simply recognise these tax structures in the search and that we can actually get that money back, even if it is somewhere on the other side of the ocean or is it perhaps investing back in the Netherlands with a business structure by now? How are we going to make sure that we can recognize it, that we can track it and that we know how often this happens? This bill regulates a number of issues, for example that you do better research into who your customer is. That makes a lot of sense. However, preparations are already being made for exceptions to investigating who your customer is, because maybe the institution is too small to do that right. You might be able to outsource the client investigation. But these kinds of fiscal constructions are characterized by always looking for mouse holes to bring that money somewhere. Can the Minister of Finance, in this case, guarantee me that outsourcing that customer research will not lead to a new escape route in order not to meet the transparency that we want to set up here? Transparency eventually means you can't run off like a thief in the night. It is also mentioned here, for example, that the Minister ultimately decides when and who is excluded from that customer investigation. I fully trust this minister in this judgment, but you never know for the future. Is it convenient for the Minister to let this happen? Or maybe I misread that? What this bill also regulates is that in case of suspicious money above €10,000, you have to see if you can guarantee the origin of the money, regardless of the customer. If you can't do that, you should report it to the Financial Intelligence Unit immediately. Good, very good. Now there's been a tax interrogation committee. However, it emerged from this that some institutions may not have had a great willingness to report, but perhaps they were not aware of it. How does the Minister view that? How are we gonna improve this? How can we keep an eye on it? I do not like monitors, but it is good to see whether this part of the bill is really going to lead to what we really want, namely greater alertness in the vein of: we have to report it and we are going to go after these kinds of amounts if we think it could be risky. The legislative proposal is characterised by many provisions to be completed. They are all proposed in lower measures than the law. The chairman does know that this is then called a general measure of governance. It's engineering. You can change that soon. That does not have to be done through all the Chambers, but I would like not only to read, but actually to have a front-end procedure. That means that the Chamber has a month to say to the Minister: wait a minute, we want to talk about this. If the Chamber is simply in agreement, it will pass that month and the Minister will be able to take that measure. I could say that I am tabling an amendment on all these points. That's engineering. I could also imagine the Minister saying: I understand that the Chamber wants to sit on top of this; it is also good to have a look; I'm just going to do this. I'd find that the easiest way. Then I come to that register that has been mentioned before, of those final stakeholders of that money. Put the spotlight on it and it will be less easy to cover up, as it is called, to make you unclear to the tax authorities and to the justice system. Now it is an interest in, for example, a 25% company. Actually, I think it could go down a little bit. How does the Minister look at a lower percentage? If you sit at 24% and therefore do not have to get in, you can take 24% interest in a lot of companies. That can be very large sums of money and quite risky things. Then you're not in sight. I wouldn't like it so much. If you have nothing to hide, you're just in the register. Then it doesn't matter that much. 10%, 5%; what does the Minister think about this? Something else scared the hell out of me. We have a whole trust sector in our country. They run, as it were, companies that aren't really companies. They deliver the driver and they make annual reports, and they pretend that such a company actually does something here. The only thing that company is really for is to raise money, for example from countries where it may be unsafe, think of Ukraine or other countries, but also to let the money through just to pay as little tax as possible. One of the things they are often used for is not to make it clear that, for example, money stored in such an example on the Zuidas is from Ukrainian oligarchs. Because that might be from those Politically Exposed Persons, those people who, at the time of a transaction, aren't being controlled. Then we can talk about Mr Nijboer and his mortgage, but we are, of course, talking about money that is actually being stolen. Those are my words, I realize; that does not have to be taken over by the Minister from the society there. We know that happens in the Netherlands. I am shocked that the explanatory statement says: yes, that register is going to come and, yes, it is possible that higher-level staff from the trust offices will eventually enter that register. But they are being used for the cover-up and the secret of the ultimate interested party. I would like to call on the Minister to say: we are going to prevent that; we are not going to do that. A trust office should be able to identify the final interested party. It should, because it needs to do customer research and know where the money comes from, otherwise it should not offer the service. If the trust office doesn't know that, then it just can't run that e.g. or nv. That must be the bottomline. Then whoever's behind it with his money lost his vehicle. But putting a trust office as a final interested party in the register is not what we need to do; we need to put the spotlight on it. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber of Commerce is going to do this. I heard my colleague Van der Linde ask: is that all right? I think it makes sense to join the Chamber of Commerce, but one of the things that I noticed, including with the parliamentary interrogation committee, is that a lot of registrations at the Chamber of Commerce are not actually up-to-date, or that the KVK does not act when an NV or an e.g. does not fulfil its obligations in terms of accounting, reporting or sufficient directors. So there might be a lot of dead wood in that whole card box of the Chamber of Commerce. This could be a good opportunity to take a look at it and strengthen it. Then it becomes clear how many companies we actually have in which money is stored or used as a zoom element to get through the money. Mr. Chairman. We are, of course, pleased with directives and measures to combat the secret of money and the avoidance of tax, in order to return money that has not been properly obtained to our society. But here's what I'm gonna get off my chest anyway. On Monday it became clear, but today it has been really checked out by journalists that the Dutch government facilitates that companies, large multinationals, only pay 5% to 7% profit tax here, while the baker on the corner pays 25% if he makes a profit. Well, then you're kind of in the middle of a double-minded discussion, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u80	Mr. Chairman. In the musical Cabaret, a woman says she's looking for love. She's out of the search for a man who tells her that love doesn't matter: money makes the world go round, not love.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u81	And the rest of the text sings to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u82	Hm?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u83	Whether you want to sing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u84	Yeah, no. It is true that Liza Minnelli is also playing in this, but that is not what I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u85	Well, Henk, if you help out a little bit like Liza Minnelli, we'll come a long way. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u86	My vocal qualities are not as good as those of Mr Nijboer. I am also concerned about the content, because regardless of whether the man or woman was right here: money is rolling faster and faster. The world is spinning faster and faster. Much faster than when we transposed the predecessor of the fourth anti-money laundering directive into Dutch law and actually a lot faster than when the fourth directive was adopted, as was also mentioned. Since then, the cryptocurrencies have arisen. Since then, we split the bill with a tickie. This means new routes for tax evasion, lugging money, money laundering and financing things that can't stand the light of day, so we need gatekeepers. The Papers from Panama to Paradise make it painfully clear that trust offices, notaries, lawyers, banks and, in fact, tax advisors do not always fill in the gatekeeper's role that can be expected of them. Some of them propagate aggressive tax planning. Many consciously participate in constructions that are purely intended to channel money away. The total size of this practice was set at 18.5 billion euros in the 2017 National Threat Image. That is 2.5 billion more than Mr Van der Linde's figure, which, I believe, came from 2012. In other words: there is also a rising line in this. Mr. Chairman. That's gotta go down hard. On the basis of the directive, the Minister makes a number of proposals which will enable the sector to become the gatekeeper he should be. For example, everyone who knocks on the door of a financial institution will be checked to see whether they pose a risk. We welcome many of these proposals, but we also believe that we need to look closely at the practice and how these measures will work out for ordinary people who want to buy a house and apply for a mortgage, or for the small saver who wants to invest with his savings. Is there going to be an investigation of every customer? Does this mean that every customer is already suspicious in advance? Are we not in a situation where trees no longer allow us to see the forest, because all clients are being investigated instead of just those with the greatest risk profiles? Is it clear what exactly can be asked about? We can imagine that De Nederlandsche Bank will draw up a format that is used by each office and provides clarity about what client information can be requested, how to store that information and with whom it may be shared. After all, we are talking about privacy-sensitive information. Will the Minister discuss this with De Nederlandsche Bank? What happens when someone gets a hit? I do not necessarily mean the PEP hit Mr Nijboer was talking about. For example, I remember an American baby who wasn't allowed to fly because her namesake was on a terrorist list. Now I know that domestic babies can indeed cause terror, but we should not take that literally, because you get so much in return. The point is that it can have major consequences if someone gets wrongly on a list. Then I am not only talking about not being able to fly anymore, but also about being unable to open an account or at all being able to get to own money. How can anyone prove that his or her name was wrongly placed on a list? In particular, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice what recovery mechanism is in place at such a time. Not included in this bill is the UBO register of final stakeholders. It's been appointed a few times. We will talk about the implementation at a later date. However, the adjustment already includes the indication that a person is considered to be a UBO, the limit of 25% shareholdership. Those who want to hide the UBO should therefore cut five times, with stakeholders divided into five times 20%. In the past, DNB used a hard threshold of 10% as a measure. Why does the Minister not now choose to tighten the definition of UBO towards an indication of 10%? I'd like a response. We are considering tabling a motion on this point. Next, a comment about the PEPs, the political figures who always start ringing alarm bells. We believe that this is a good thing, because politicians automatically represent an interest greater than themselves. Politicians are now losing special PEP status a year after their resignation. However, in the case of some politicians, I can imagine that they will still remain politically relevant for much longer than a year after their resignation. Of course, I am not talking about my modest self, but I am talking, for example, about finance ministers or justice ministers. Why is this period not extended to, for example, five years? We are positive about broadening to casinos and games of chance. The question to the Minister of Justice is how this relates to the draft law on distance gambling, in which online gambling will be further regulated. In advance, you can try to close the rules as best you can, but ultimately it's about whether they are being respected. That's why D66 wants a supervisor with teeth. That is all the more important if the sector is still in the candy store and the hand is close to the honey pot. That is why we agree with the disclosure of fraud or the financing of illegal practices and also agree with the higher penalty ceiling proposed by SP and VVD. In this context, a question about the relationship between fines and turnover. Does a company's turnover say anything about the pain that a fine causes and whether it deters enough? Is it not better to look at more business conditions, for example the level of reserves? Mr. Chairman. We also agree with taking away the permit in the extreme. Crime shall not take place under the umbrella of a licence. Here, too, a question about practice. How's this gonna work in group permits? Some companies place all their sensitive customers in one branch of the group. If a subsidiary breaks the law, could the whole group lose the license? In the Netherlands, for example, we have a listed trust office with I believe more than ten different trust licenses from De Nederlandsche Bank. How does it work if one of those permits were to be revoked? Viewing the financial sector from the national channel is naive and does not do justice to the practice. It is important to work together in Europe so that effective supervision can really detect and prosecute crime. A strong supervisor and effective penalties are part of this. But that is all after all, because in the end it is important that the sector itself gets to work, not only to implement this law to the letter, but also to create a culture in which no one wants to cooperate in crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u87	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a raid tonight for my colleague Bart Snels, who had other obligations. I am very pleased to see four colleagues sitting together on the Parliamentary Committee on Tax Constructions. Some of the elements contained in this legislative proposal, but which need to be included in other legislation, have been discussed in detail. I'll go into that in a minute. It goes without saying that GroenLinks strongly supports this law. I would like to remind you that a colleague of mine, a fellow party member in the European Parliament, Judith Sargentini, started this in 2014. It is now 2018 and it has yet to pass through both Rooms. I would like to make a point about this, namely that there is a bit of a lack of speed in this whole area. I would like to make an appeal and I would like to hear a response from the cabinet. I know there are still plans coming up, for example for the letterbox companies. We're gonna get a lot more. I refer to the OECD pathway, the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, and the guidelines from Europe. It takes years before you get to implement legislation in the Netherlands. I really think we should speed that up. This is true of this law, but also of the discussion on the UBO. We know that there is already an agreement on the follow-up to the directive. I would like to hear from the ministers how they believe that this type of trajectory can be accelerated. It's gotta be possible. It's important enough. Billions are illegally locked away, laundered and used for very harmful activities. It is very important that this law should allow more supervision and reciprocity. Allow me, Mr President, to make a comment on the PVV. They are consistent in themselves: they are against everything that comes from Europe. But if you want to fight cross-border crime and tax evasion, you will still have to work with other countries and then you will also have to exchange information. If you want information about people with a suspicious background, you should also be willing to provide information from the Netherlands. This reciprocity is part of what happens when you work across borders. That is also made possible by this bill. I still have a few specific questions. I think it is very important that this happens. I also think it is important that it is stored in a register and that it is as transparent as possible. I do not want to shine away that there are risks, but in other countries these risks really do not occur to the extent that people in the Netherlands are now calling for these risks to occur. I would particularly like to point out the reciprocity and the cross-border nature of this. If we do not make this information easier to access, a foreign authority will have to apply for legal aid for each individual case. That's what's going on for months. That undermines enforcement. For this reason alone, I believe that openness and transparency in the register should be as high as possible. These must be natural persons who are ultimately the real beneficiaries of the assets, as Mr Leijten rightly pointed out. It is not someone else who should be put forward instead, and certainly not someone who is employed by a trust office. It is therefore very good that this registration will take place. I have a specific question about privacy, especially when it comes to personal data. On the one hand, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the law that there will be only limited changes in the processing and protection of personal data. At another time it is said that the nature of the personal data to be collected by the present legislative proposal is not changed. I'm getting a little confused about that. Is something being changed at that point or is nothing being changed? It would be good if that were clarified. On this point, too, there is the possibility, from the point of view of privacy, that personal data may be used for commercial purposes if data subjects consent. In this context, GroenLinks has already put forward other legislative proposals: we do not always feel that it is clear to people that they are consenting to the exchange of personal data which also enables the use for commercial purposes. Is that adequately covered and people are sufficiently reminded of this? I have another informative question. This is very much about the duty to report unusual transactions. Now there is also a debate in Europe about limiting or, if that sounds too negative, better identifying unusual tax arrangements and introducing a reporting obligation for them. Can the Minister fill me in? Where is this discussion right now? And how soon can we expect further European agreements and possible implementation in the Netherlands? Then there is a point that affects this bill but which is actually broader: mapping Member State options. The VVD asked for it in the written procedure. There are options for each Member State, including this legislative proposal. They were also mapped at the end of the written reply, but there is no matrix showing which country used which Member State option. I often encounter this when implementing European directives. We in the Chamber always have the need to see the choices made by Member States, also to see what the level playing field does if we use exceptions ourselves or not. Can I ask both directors to make an effort, including at European level, to keep much better track of which countries use which Member State options and to make that information available to the Chamber in an accessible manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u89	Thank you. Then we have one more speaker, Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fourth anti-money laundering directive, which we are discussing tonight, is of course important in the fight against money laundering, but it is also important in preventing the financing of terrorism. I cannot imagine that there are parties that are opposed to regulation in order to improve the possibilities for combating it. Yet tonight I have heard parties that think differently, unfortunately. This implementation law can therefore count on our support. We still have a few points that stand out and which we would like to raise. I'll start with the UBOs. And then I immediately look at Mr Van der Linde of the VVD, who later tried to mention the CDA as an example in this discussion. But of course that is not a good example, because the final stakeholders for the CDA are the citizens of the Netherlands. This is therefore not the best example in the context of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u91	Before you go any further, Mr Van der Linde would, of course, like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u92	Now we're having an interesting discussion. Because now we are actually going to find that the political parties have a common UBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u93	No, Mr President, I tried to tell you with a wink how Mr Van der Linde was about to bring up the discussion. That's why I interpreted him that way. If we have the discussion on the basis of the current legislation, we will of course see that sometimes it is very difficult to determine the ultimate ownership. That is why I want to say something about this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u94	It was a wink, I understand. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u95	We are going to deal with the legislation on this in a separate implementation law. In all kinds of companies and shady constructions, we can imagine why it is necessary to determine who is ultimately interested. However, the CDA has some reservations about determining who is ultimately the interested party, including for anbis. For example, in a charity, that is literally the charity itself, but that is not what the legislator means. Can the Minister give a very practical example of who will then be recorded as UBO? Could this be, for example, the chairman or the director of such a charity? And does he also see that this has the disadvantage that this public information can be misinterpreted by the outside world? A director of a charity has no financial interest at all, let alone that he himself decides on the finances of such a foundation. I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. We'll take it with us if we're going to deal with the real UBO proposal in the implementation law. Furthermore, the definition of UBO in the law is essential. The further development is developed in both legislative proposals in a separate AMvB. It has been announced that the definition of UBO in the anti-money laundering directive and the implementation law UBO will not be similar. It is therefore important that both definitions can be dealt with at the same time, because the discussion on one definition may have an impact on the other definition. Does the definition of a UBO remain what we mean by it if it can be adjusted at AMvB, in two places? How do we keep those definitions in line? The rules must, of course, be applicable and enforceable. What you're getting is that it could make them break up. Mr. Chairman. I come to the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing in crypto coins. It is a coincidence that during the written examination of this bill a decision was taken in Europe to amend the directive we are discussing tonight, precisely on the issue of crypto coins. That is what we will be talking about in due course. In the meantime, financial institutions which are already covered by the law must also conduct a more rigorous customer investigation in the case of transactions in virtual currency. However, AFM and DNB already warn that these institutions are likely to be difficult to do so. What's that all about? Why do AFM and DNB only warn about this? The control of clients who do transactions with virtual coins is already an obligation under current legislation? Then why can't AFM and DNB act as enforcement agents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u96	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u97	I think Mr Ronnes is asking very sensible questions. Actually, I'd like to go back to the piece before that, about the final interested party. We want a record of that. This has also been agreed internationally, in order to prevent people from hiding from the tax authorities or the judiciary and to act as if the money is not theirs, when something has happened to it that is not right or that should be taxed on it. That's the principle of that. Now we have an entire trust sector in the Netherlands that helps companies meet all kinds of statutory obligations without actually having a company, allowing you to put money away without it being visible that it belongs to you or an oligarch, which is even more serious. Surely it wouldn't be a good idea for that registry of that ultimate interested party to include an employee of such a trust office in the registration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u98	The goal of the UBO register is ultimately to find the ultimate owner, the owner. I have already indicated in my input that the implementation of this legislation and its definition are very close. Because the final definition and the way in which we are going to regulate that with each other can only be established in the introduction law, that is the time when you can properly assess to what extent that regulation is adequate to record the type of cases you mention in a good way. That is very complex, so I am looking forward to the follow-up debate on the implementation law of the UBO register and on the exact definitions we are going to apply for a UBO and how we will record it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u100	Trust offices are also used by people who do not want to be in sight, who do not want to be known as stakeholders in that money. That's what they're used for. So if they can be included as the final stakeholders, then we still make it possible to play hide-and-seek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u101	You don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u102	You don't want that. The Minister is very specific in his response to this point. Unfortunately, we don't have the register yet. I think everyone would actually like to have that. That'll make it easier. But on a number of issues, the answer has already been very concrete, and precisely on this point. It is said that in the future it will be possible for highly trained staff from such a trust office to be included as an interested party. But if there's gonna be cashed with that money in the end, it's not because of the lady or the gentleman, but they're in that register. That's not really right. So we should already report to the government: go ahead and speed up its work, but skip this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u103	I heard you say that in your first term. I am also very curious to hear the Minister's response to the comment you made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u104	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u105	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point that also affects us as politicians: the increased control of unusual transactions by politically prominent persons. Can the Minister explain again why politicians are subject to tighter control? Why is a more rigorous client investigation not simply mandatory for those who pose a higher risk on the basis of a accumulation of criteria? Because now all politicians are seen in advance as a potential risk for erasing and financing terrorism, and that goes a little far. I also have the question of whether a politically prominent person is always registered as a prominent person. The rules say twelve months, but does that mean that registration is forgotten after 12 months? Or is it possible that financial service providers might at a later date come back to the fact that someone has ever held such a position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u106	Before you go to your next block: there is an interruption. Mr. Van der Lee, this is your third interruption. A little short, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u107	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u109	Thank you so much for your coulance. On this point, too, I would like to put a question to the CDA colleague on reciprocity. We have seen at the Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers that there are a lot of Politically Exposed Persons in there. If you want to do something about that, it makes sense that that will also apply to those people in the Netherlands. Don't you think that reciprocity should be the measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u110	In that light, yes. It's not like we're against it. The question is: do you not limit yourself too much when it comes to the definition of what you need to focus on? And are we not blinding the process of financial service providers to just those politically important people? Will the field of view of these institutions be wide enough to see other people passing by? That is also the point I want to touch here. Hasn't that definition been interpreted too scary or in the wrong way? Is the argument that it is a political person, or should we define it a little more broadly if there is a accumulation of factors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u111	Is that an adequate answer to your question, Mr. Van der Lee? Then Mr. Ronnes will move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u112	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my final point. This weekend it was announced that the President of the Latvian Central Bank was apprehended on suspicion of corruption. Last week it was also announced that the U.S. Treasury banned its banks from still trading with one of Latvia's largest banks, the ABLV, because money laundering would be the order of the day at this bank. The ECB has now understood this. We are simply talking about a bank that is within the banking union and is therefore under ECB supervision. But how can the Americans be the first to intervene in this case, when they were not at all the appointed supervisor? I'd like a response from the Minister. Let me ask you another question. We already have an anti-money laundering directive. The law we're discussing tonight is a tightening-up of that. Can the Minister indicate if the law we are discussing tonight will change anything in the case of the Latvian bank? Would that have been better for surveillance? Could the ECB, or perhaps the Dutch regulator, have intervened earlier and signaled cases? So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u113	Thank you. The directors have indicated that they need 15 minutes to answer the questions properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u114	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance to give his answer to the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u115	Thank you, Mr President. A very large number of questions have been asked, often very factual questions for clarification. I will, of course, try to answer them all as well as I can. I'll start with a general piece. Then I come to the UBO, then to enforcement and fines, then to the PEPs and to 'other' and then to one amendment. Then I ask my colleague and sidekick to take over and take over what remains. Mr. Chairman. Money laundering and terrorist financing pose a serious threat to society. Many Members of Parliament have underlined this. There is no doubt that money laundering, terrorist financing and the underlying forms of crime must be effectively combated. That too, I believe, is extremely widely worn. In our view, the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive certainly helps this. It is now taken up in Dutch law, in particular in the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (Wwft). The Wwft institutions should therefore avoid using their services for money laundering or terrorist financing. Very logical, you could say, precisely because they are the gatekeepers of our financial system. It is clear that this is an important task for the Wwft institutions. Where possible, they will therefore also be supported. For example, supervisors and government will provide guidance and guidance where this is useful and necessary. Mr. Chairman. I will go straight to the first few questions I would like to answer in this general block. The first question was from Mr Van der Lee and was about the implementation period. I can imagine that question very well. It was also one of my questions when going over the file. It is, I think, good to emphasise that this is an exceptional situation, which we do not often encounter in Europe either. It is not customary for the Commission to present a new directive directly during the implementation of a directive. This has cost not only in the Netherlands but also in many other countries a lot of capacity. This also explains the run-off in many countries, where in the Netherlands the giving of the cabinet change did not help for the speed either. But I share very much with Mr Van der Lee the need to keep doing these things quickly. Mr. Chairman. I now come to a question from, I believe, the VVD and, in my view, the CDA on the cryptocurrency. The question was when to start working on the anti-money laundering measures for cryptocurrency. This is a very important point, a subject on which we have often had an exchange of views. It is good to recall that the amendments to the fourth anti-money laundering directive are not yet formally established, but that there is already a political agreement in the European Union. In order for implementation to take place as soon as possible, preparations are now being made. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten said that much is being done at AMvB. She asked me to sign off on a front page. The basis of the legislative proposal for a regulation at AMvB has been found appropriate. Therefore, according to the Regulatory Instructions, formal involvement is not foreseen. The AMvB we're dealing with is currently in consultation. On the other hand, if the Chamber insists on it, I will. I would like to return to Mrs Leijten's question as to whether she thinks it is really necessary. If so, I will take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u116	If you implement such a directive with many more detailed rules, which you logically do not put in the legislative proposal but which you submit to the field of consultation, then I think it is just as good to submit it to us as well. If it's okay, it's okay and it passes within a month. And if we don't, we're gonna be able to talk, and we might be able to make some adjustments. I'd really appreciate it if we could just agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u117	Mr President, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u119	I'll continue with the UBO block. There have been an enormous number of questions about this. In order to prevent natural persons from hiding themselves or their assets behind legal entities and constructions, information about ultimately interested parties is the UBO's; in the Dutch translation, of course, it is something else that is extremely important. Mrs Leijten and Mr Paternotte asked why the UBO definition is based on a 25% percentage and not, for example, on a lower percentage. That is an obvious question. It is important to highlight that this is the percentage of current regulation. Now it's an indication. Persons with a lower share of shares or voting rights can also qualify as UBO. As far as I'm concerned, that's a profit, too. It is therefore a question of whether someone has the ultimate ownership or the ultimate control. An indication of a smaller percentage does not make any sense in our view, as it also creates the risk that too many people will be covered by this scope. So the question is a little bit: where do you choose the point of contact? Mr Van der Linde asked whether it was the ambition to appoint an UBO for each legal person. The Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which remains a long and difficult word, requires each EU Member State to have a register containing information on companies and other legal entities established in the Netherlands. And "corporations and other legal entities" corresponds to companies and legal entities as referred to in the Trade Register Act. With some exceptions, therefore, each company and every legal person registered in the Trade Register must also provide a UBO. Mrs Leijten asked whether it was necessary to prevent...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u120	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u121	I do not yet have an answer to those few very specific questions. Then who's the UBO? How am I supposed to see that? As examples, I gave the CDA okay, it may also be the VVD Natural Monuments and the State of the Netherlands. You'd have to have an answer to that, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u122	Yes. A UBO will therefore have to be appointed there as well. I would also like to limit the example to Natural Monuments. That is, I think, a better comparison for all those present here. For the second time, I could look specifically at the consequences of this. But the main rule is quite obvious. It is as I have just outlined it. It's because of the Trade Registry Act. It is also a question of whether there is anything to be done about that, but let me give you a little more coloring about the driver, because that is what Mr Van der Linde was looking for in the example of Natural Monuments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u123	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u124	Mrs Leijten asked whether a trust office should not be classified as UBO. Or perhaps I should say: that is what she said and she asked for my response. Look, a trust office provides services to target companies. For example, trust offices act as directors and a director of a company is considered UBO only in exceptional cases. This is only the case if UBO is not found on other grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u125	That calls for an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u126	We are still getting legislation on the trust sector, but in my interpretation of everything that is being talked about customer research and the origin of money, a trust office cannot offer service to a target company if it is not clear who is behind it. So then the trust office can't be the ultimate interested party either. It shouldn't be offering that service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u127	I also know Mrs Leijten's broader views on trust offices. Here, I think, it is just necessary to implement this directive. We're here to talk about trust offices. Here it is simply the case that the director of the company is only regarded as an UBO in exceptional cases. I can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u128	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u129	Honestly, I don't understand. The trust sector is also used not only to keep an eye out when it comes to stakeholders in a target company in which you steal money or through which you let money flow. We know that. This has clearly emerged from the parliamentary interrogation committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u130	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u131	At the moment when such a trust office is used to play hide-and-seek and at the same time we make rules to make that hide-and-seek game no longer possible, but that trust office can be used, we are working on something that is not going to be effective. In view of the answers given, I asked the Minister simply not to include this possibility in the further development of the UBO register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u132	I'd like to study on it for a while, but I'm afraid the answer... Let me put it more carefully: I am not sure if the answer will please Mrs Leijten. I think she's doing an encouragement. I'd like to take that back, but that's all I can make of it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u133	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I wanted to continue on the same point, because I thought I heard the Minister say that a director of a trust office can get UBO status if it is not clear who else should get that status. This is the heart of the matter. It's about knowing your customer. If we don't know who the customer is, how can anyone else act instead? I just don't understand that logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u135	What might help is that in the second term I will come up with a few examples. Then we can re-expand and deepen this in a little bit more detail. In any case, we are going to talk about the trust offices in a broader sense. We have tried to take over the directive as baldly and neatly as possible. Maybe I can come back to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u136	Let me take a look at Mr Van der Lee. He is pleased that the Minister will return to it in the second term. I would also like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u137	I had exactly the same question as Mr Van der Lee. If the Minister comes back to that in the second term, I would ask him to also answer the question as to why directors of a bitch's office can indeed be classified as UBO. What could be a good reason for that? Because "UBO" simply stands for "final interested party" and the trust office serves to observe the matter for the ultimate interested party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u138	Thank you. I propose that the Minister return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u139	I understand very well what Mr Paternotte's concern is in this. I think he has the same concern as Mrs Leijten. I think it might help to come up with a few examples. I am at the next part, again by Mr Van der Lee. That was about his concerns about privacy. Personal data may or may not be used for commercial purposes. Are they covered enough? I'll be very honest about that. That's just a point of attention. There are companies that buy and collect information from the Trade Register and then resell it, whether or not in subscription form. We need to involve this in the wider discussion on open data and the Trade Register. It's not something I can fix here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u140	Mr. Van der Lee, you now have your third interruption. I give you the floor to ask a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u141	The temptation is always great. Sorry about that. I have one more question about this. He also touches on the discussion about the Politically Exposed Persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u142	Can you talk a little more into the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u143	This touches on the Politically Exposed Persons, the politically prominent persons. I happen to have seen that a number of colleagues from their bank in the Netherlands have already received a letter asking for all the information, up to tax returns, in advance of this law, to justify where the property comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u145	In that case, it is important to know how privacy is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u146	Mr Van der Lee is simply touching on a delicate point. One thing leads to another. To be honest, it's a little bit like that. I think we have to solve the problem. I'm going to say a little more about the PEPs, but I think we should just acknowledge that there is a potential privacy problem in what is to be removed from the Trade Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u148	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde's question with the reference to €2.50 is in some sense in line with this. The UBO information will, as I said, be included in the Trade Register. As manager of the Trade Register, the Chamber of Commerce will manage the UBO information. However, there will be privacy safeguards. That information can also be requested only after registration and after payment of a fee. That may not be the clause that Mr Van der Linde would like, but it is not nothing either. Moreover, not all UBO information will be revealed just like that. If you'd like, I can specify that further. The question about Natural Monuments I'm about to take back in more detail. Mr Nijboer asked about the central shareholder register. The development of that register has been maintained until further development of the UBO register. That is Mr Nijboer, I think, well known. Both registers aim to prevent fraud, money laundering and tax evasion. However, the registers have a different size and content. As Mr Nijboer also knows, the shareholder register registers the shareholders. That is a much more limited group than natural persons who qualify as UBO. I should like to add that both registers cannot be developed simultaneously for the sake of feasibility and affordability. I just suspect that we are going to resume the discussion about the CAHR at the moment it is developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u149	That last argument, I think, is a quick one. In fact, there is a substantial difference between the ultimate interested party, which can never be a trust office, as colleagues have rightly pointed out, and the person who has shares in all different e.g. or through intermediaries and who also has decision-making power. So it's two fundamentally different things. You need them both if you want to shut it down and find out who's doing what.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u150	I can well imagine this because of Mr Nijboer's previous comments and political orientation. I think the tension is coming through that on the other hand I understand very well what Mr Van der Linde is saying about it. We still have to develop that register. I think it is important to take both points into account. I just don't want to anticipate what that will look like and exactly how the much more limited group ends up in that register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u151	I understand that very well. I am not asking for a definitive assessment of this at all. I'm just trying to look. We're working on a bill. The government initially, I believe, embraced it in 2010, but has now also said that we also have the final register of stakeholders, which is something else, although the targets are about the same. I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister recognises this........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u152	Yes. Moreover, I shall be returning to the UBO register very soon, because the investigation at official level is almost complete. That will take place with some urgency. I will be able to take it back quite soon after this debate with the Chamber, I think in writing. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about enforcement. In particular, I am going to do the piece on enforcement that is on my plate and not on that of Mr Grapperhaus. The first question was from Mr Van der Linde and was about what supervisors can do to deal with infringements. That is, in the end, one could say, the essence of the matter. The supervisor may provide guidance or impose a periodic penalty payment to prevent or have them terminated. There is a preventive element and also a sanctioning element in it. Furthermore, there are a number of possibilities, which may also be good to mention. For companies there is the withdrawal of the licence. For natural persons there is the fine and the administrative ban. The supervisors also use these tools regularly. We have looked specifically at it again: there is no evidence that this whole arsenal is inadequate. In both cases, criminal prosecution is also possible, but Mr Grapperhaus may say something about that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked why the amount of the fine was limited to the turnover and not to the other figures of the company. I think it's his concern whether we're throwing out the net wisely enough. Look, the bill links the maximum fine for financial corporations and trust offices to the net turnover. In determining the fine in a specific case, supervisors also involve other factors, such as the company's ability to bear. This is not just a question of turnover. Finally, there is the possibility to impose a fine of up to twice the benefit obtained. I think that gives a little more comfort to Mr Paternotte about what is already possible. Mr Mulder asked what I am doing to tackle those responsible for money laundering. The honest answer is, for example, to come up with a proposal like this. Soon we will come up with the follow-up on this. It is precisely with this bill that supervisors are given a lot of opportunities to deal with drivers or other natural persons responsible for infringements. Drivers can get a fine. They shall be subject to the same maximum fine as for the undertaking. In the case of serious infringements, I have already mentioned it in the direction of Mr Paternotte................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Between the lines, I had the impression that Mr Mulder thought it was a good proposal, but that he did not think it went far enough. Our approach is that this is really an important step in the right direction, especially in relation to the handling of those responsible for money laundering. Mr Nijboer asked about another relevant fact in cases within or at the border of criminal law, namely the chance of getting caught. Look, for the deterrentness of the instruments, it is especially important how high institutions assess the probability of the taking. The legislative proposal focuses on this by requiring regulators to publish measures in response to infringements. I think there's an actual deterrent element in that. How big that will be, and what that implies for those who are not caught, is difficult to anticipate. I think it would be wise to keep monitoring this and try to make an assessment of it. As with many other cases, this is not so easy. Mr Nijboer asked whether more sectors should be covered by the Wwft, such as those of the car dealers. It'll do him good to hear they're already covered by the Wwft. All persons or companies trading in goods and making or receiving payments of €15,000 or more are also covered by the Wwft. That amount will be reduced to €10,000. Mr Paternotte asked if it was clear what to ask for in the client investigation. The client investigation should be risk-based. This means that the law will not prescribe exactly what information should be collected, but that it should be adapted to the specific case, while, of course, a number of safeguards still apply. Mrs Leijten asked me if I can guarantee that that was literally the word she used when she said that the possibility of outsourcing client research does not lead to more cover-ups. The outsourcing of client research can only be done under strict conditions. Moreover, it can only be done by certain Wwft settings. These are then subject to the same legal requirements and are monitored. I am a little less concerned than Mrs Leijten that we would end up with some kind of slippery wreck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u153	I see that Mr Paternotte wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u154	The minister quickly ignored my questions about the client investigation, so I'm going to repeat them. It's two sides. On the one hand, the situation in which an office does not know exactly what to ask for and how to record it. Isn't it convenient to have a format for that? On the other hand, I ask if DNB can't help by, for example, explaining to a trust office what they want to know when they come by. Is the Minister willing to talk to De Nederlandsche Bank about a format for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u155	I had cut Mr Paternotte's questions into two pieces because I think they both justified a different answer. I think I answered his first question and the answer to his second question is even shorter. That's a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u157	Mr. Chairman. I shall skip Mr Paternotte's next question and I have already answered Mrs Leijten. Then I come to a question from the CDA about virtual currency. He asked what AFM and DNB can do, because they are probably difficult to control and act on this. What's that all about? Look, earlier in the debate on the cryptocurrency, we exchanged that Europe did not decide for nothing to introduce additional requirements and regulations in the next version of this directive. We see, I think, all of us, with all the pros and cons you can name in the cryptocurrency, that at least a major disadvantage of that cryptocurrency is that they are attractive, given also the anonymity, for individuals who want to launder. They're anonymous transactions. DNB and AFM may issue warnings, but because of their anonymous nature it is simply fair to say that they have also told me in my conversations with them that they have a very limited view of those behind those transactions. That is why it is a good thing that this directive should be introduced, but it is fair to say that this anonymity and, by the way, all the attention given to it together with the great flight that these bitcoins have taken will, of course, contribute to the visibility of this and perhaps also to the exploration of the possibilities by those who are involved in money laundering via that cryptocurrency. Mr President, I hope that we will be able to speak in writing about this cryptocurrency later this week, if I may put it that way. Mr Van der Linde asked if I had a permanent dialogue with the financial institutions in order not to miss a chance and to achieve ever better enforcement. I wrote well and I think those were his literal words. This is certainly an important dialogue. It is not only up to me but also to Mr Grapperhaus to maintain close contact with those Wwft institutions. This happens, for example, regardless of the dialogue that Mr Grapperhaus and I have, also through the Commission's reporting obligation. Then Mr Van der Linde asked about the motion of the VVD and, I think, the Christian Union about the money flows from non-free countries. I had to look into it, but the motion called for funding not to be granted to institutions from countries that do not themselves have freedom of religion or freedom of expression. Because unwanted foreign financing is generally not prohibited or punishable, its approach is very complex. Mr Van der Linde will agree with me. It is true that there can be a problem if foreign funding is accompanied by influence and would also contribute to anti-democratic and intolerable behaviour that runs counter to the principles of the rule of law. Although Mr Grapperhaus knows more about the latter subject, this is also primarily the responsibility of the Minister of SZW. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van der Linde asked if I would continue to monitor the burdens. Yes, but I would add that, as far as I am concerned, the burden is high but not disproportionately high, because it is really very important that we try to do something about this problem. We will also really support institutions wherever possible to keep costs as low as possible. I also imagine that it will take a lead time and effort at first, but that it will also become easier in the long run. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van der Linde asked about a point that is actually in line with this. He asked about the small settings that are too small to comply. Couldn't they succumb to the rule pressure? It is, of course, true that the Wwft has a greater impact on those small institutions by definition. Where possible, this has been taken into account in the legislative proposal, which states that some measures must really be proportionate, precisely in order to make this point clear, to the nature and extent of the institution, for example in respect of the compliance function. My suspicion is that it will be precisely those small institutions that will be more inclined to ask for the type of help I have just described. We will, of course, actually monitor that ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I got to the block about the PEPs. Mr Nijboer was able to talk vividly about what happened to him in that context. He asked whether the measures were effective in this respect. I would almost say that his own casuism is the living proof of that, but let me give a slightly more detailed answer. It's not new that this is happening from a foreign perspective. Internationally, Europeanly and also in the Netherlands, it is considered effective and also proportionate. It is, of course, a preventive measure. I very much sympathise with Mr Nijboer that it is complicated to know how to deal with it, but Mr Nijboer will also agree with me that it serves a broader interest than his own. There is, of course, also a public interest here to ensure that people with a public function do not get involved in all kinds of misery that we should not want to have with each other. So it is really important that we do, no matter how difficult that may be for the individual. Mr Paternotte asked, if I have understood him correctly, whether we could not extend that period correctly. If it's effective, shouldn't it be any longer? In line with the directive, we are doing it for at least 12 months after the termination of the post. That's the minimum. Institutions should take into account risks that may persist beyond that. That also gives them the opportunity to look at it, for example because a politician or a PEP remains closely involved in his or her old position. In that case, enhanced customer investigation remains required. But that is up to the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u158	The Minister's argument leads, in fact, quite unnaturally, to wonder why it stops after 12 months. When I look at your predecessors alone, Minister, there are ambassadors who are able to produce fintech among these huge stocks of books and thus influence the social debate, on people who still run banks, so to speak. So when I listen to your argument, I wonder if five years isn't much more logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u159	I think Mr Paternotte understands that in addition to the political parties and Natural Monuments, I do not want my predecessors and former Secretary of State to be too much part of the debate here. Look, of course, this is always a weighting. Does one year make sense? Would two years be possible? Of course, there's something to say for both of us. I think it is wise that we should implement this PEP legislation. I think there is also a strong logic for continuing to do so after fulfilling the function. I think that we will then have to consider to what extent this appears to be working satisfactorily on the considerations that institutions make after that one-year period that governs the legislative proposal. This seems to me to be something that we should want to include in an evaluation, but also here, of course, it is about proportionality. There will also be a lot of former PEPs for whom this is no longer relevant at all. Mr Paternotte points to himself; all this is still written in the stars, so let me not speculate about that. But this is also going on here. Nor do we want the institutions to do unnecessary work for all those who are then completely forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u160	This calls again for an interruption in Mr Van der Linde's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u161	More like a supplementary question. Apart from all the misery for ourselves, which we simply have to swallow: we have a number of international organisations in The Hague. They're full of PEPs. Are we running the risk of a bank saying at a good time: this is too much work for me, so I'm just gonna suspend the service and they're just looking for another bank? That would damage our country to a great extent. I ask this all the more, because the recitals to the directive already state: this is not an invitation to suspend services. But then we no longer see the guarantee to ensure continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u162	It is good to say that this problem will soon arise in all the countries of the European Union. I do not want to pretend that it is not at all a job to investigate all those international institutions who are then declared PEP, but of course it is not about hundreds of thousands of people. I should like to ask whether there is any possibility of making a selection in there. To be honest, I'm not ready for that. But I think that, once the bulk has been removed, if I may put it that way, keeping the system in practice might prove to be not so bad. Again, it's balanced. You make the basic choice whether you think it is important that PEPs are treated as PEPs. Then there is the question of whether you think it should be brought to an international level. I think so, and I hope so too. This applies to Dutch people in Belgium, but also to Belgians in the Netherlands who work at such an institution. That seems balanced and fair to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u163	We broadly agree, but perhaps we can take it up with the evaluation: does this cause problems? Then we're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u164	I would just like to take a quick look at the members to see if it is okay for the Minister to complete his part. Then we have a contribution from the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u165	I'm a long way, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u166	Very nice. In the second period, some questions may be asked. Is that okay with you? Yeah? Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u167	I have answered Mr Ronnes' question about why and about the PEPs, also on the basis of questions from Mr Nijboer, among others, whom I have answered. Another question from Mr Ronnes concerns the situation in which one of the bankers in Latvia got involved, which, of course, was also discussed in the Eurogroup last Monday. The bill only applies in the Netherlands, but the directive must of course also be implemented in Latvia. This will provide additional enforcement tools for the supervisory authority, in order to resume the previous discussion immediately. The President of the Central Bank of Latvia will also be a PEP in the future. This will therefore be subject to stricter requirements. This immediately means that the instruments are being increased. Am I sure you'll be okay next time? No, not that, but it might help. It illustrates exactly what the bill is about and why it is a good idea. Mr Ronnes asked how the United States regulator could intervene first. He asked even more about the casusism. I hope he will understand me when I say that it is not for me to judge what is happening there. What has happened there is still unclear to me in many respects. We were briefed at the Eurogroup meeting and I was able to hear the rest from the media. I think it is wise that I refrain from commenting on what police and justice are doing in another country. Otherwise the Minister of Justice and Security will be the first to try to correct me in that regard, I suspect. Mrs Leijten asked how the detection of money laundering through foreign tax structures is improved. These are situations that also emerged in the Panama Papers. Legal entities and constructions were used for this purpose. The bill cannot, I say, contribute to the prevention of money laundering via abroad. I think we all see that, too. Mrs Leijten herself referred to the fact that many of the people who occurred in the Panama Papers are PEPs. Moreover, in some cases, money laundering is also carried out through institutions governed by this law. Think, for example, of a bank or a tax advisor. Are we sure it won't happen again? No, absolutely not. I think this is a step in the right direction, an important step, but we are not there yet. The UBO registers can of course also help. Mr President, I have the pleasure of commenting on one of the two amendments. The amendment of the VVD and the SP is for Mr Grapperhaus. I have the other one, the one from D66 on reducing the indicative percentage for being the ultimate shareholder of a company from 25% to 10%. I think I understand what Mr Paternotte wants, but I must advise against it. This proposal has recently been extensively negotiated in Europe and a large part of the Member States were opposed to reducing this percentage. In the recent political agreement, that percentage of 25% has been maintained. I must therefore discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u168	Mr Paternotte responded to his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u169	Mr President, I have not tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u170	It's also dissuaded, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u171	So I would appreciate it if the Minister would positively recommend my non-existent amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u172	I am going to think about what has gone wrong in my administration and then I will come back to that in the second term. Apologies. I wrote along pretty diligently and I think I was almost complete. In my view, three things remain, namely the trust offices, Natural Monuments and the amendment which does not belong to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u173	I thank the Minister for his careful and comprehensive reply. The floor is now up to the Minister of Justice and Security to answer the questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for inviting us to this evening's debate. I believe that this recognises that effective prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing requires shared responsibility of Finance and Justice. I would like to proceed immediately to the questions that remain in the area of justice. In the first place, the question was asked as to how the bill relates to the remote gambling bill, by the member Paternotte. The draft law on distance games of chance concerns a change to the Gambling Law. It regulates online gambling, and that is, I am sure, my colleague's responsibility for legal protection. The Wwft obligations for gaming providers are part of the implementation of the 4th EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive and distance gambling providers will thus be kept to the obligations of the Wwft just like game casinos. I would like to add something to the question of the detection of fiscal structures, which has been raised by the Member of Parliament, Mr Leijten. Recently, my predecessor invested EUR 20 million in the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office to strengthen the approach to money laundering and corruption. This focuses in particular on fiscal constructions. About criminal enforcement the following. In 2016...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u175	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u176	We recognise that this is being extended and that extra investment is being made in this area. Nevertheless, we were surprised that we were given the answer to Parliament's questions to prevent the use of tax structures, but that cannot be quantified. My question was actually whether we could keep up with that for the future. I have heard that it is always on work visits where that takes place from the detectives who are working on it that, at the moment they are really onto criminal money, there is actually always a financial structure for concealment in play. It would be good if we knew how often that occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u177	I've been checking it out for a while. I believe that it has already been said that we should monitor that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u178	I think that's the case. I should also like to look at the face of Mrs Leijten, who is also pleased with this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u179	I just wanted to add something to what was said, but okay, okay. It was really well-meant! Let's talk about what's now being raised. In 2016, for 4.6 billion euros of transactions were suspected at FIU Nederland. A suspicious transaction does not in itself give rise to a reasonable presumption of guilt as referred to in Article 27 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Suspiciously declared transactions of FIU Netherlands but also information from other sources are being processed into criminal investigations by the investigation and the prosecution. The number of investigations into money laundering has increased in recent years. The stolen criminal assets have also increased in recent years. In 2017, more than 220 million euros of criminal assets were taken away. A priority in the approach remains that of taking away the criminal assets. Finally, I would like to come to the amendment tabled by VVD and SP on increasing those fines for financial companies and trust offices. I have to start by saying that my colleague Dekker and I discussed with the Council of State last week the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State on the administrative fine from 2015. As your Chamber knows, the Council of State has made a number of criticisms about this. The Council of State's point is that the administrative fine must still retain the character of the corrective administrative tap rather than the criminal one. The second point raised by the Council of State is, of course, that the administrative penalty also involves the principles of good governance, and in particular the principle of proportionality, for example. That could have an adverse effect on the effect we want to give when imposing administrative fines, in an objection and professional practice, if you continue to raise those fines. I would also like to say that the fines in this case are even higher than the criminal penalties. So we are already over the critical line of the Council of State, but still. But, of course, in addition to that administrative fine, the Wwft also provides for a number of other ways of dealing with serious infringements, such as the withdrawal of the licence, but also the criminal prosecution of both companies and the natural persons concerned, including all the reputational harmful effects involved, with criminal prosecution for those natural persons up to a maximum of two years in prison. I say it somewhat with a split mind, perhaps a bit too much, but I can understand the idea behind the amendment in itself. However, I regret to say that I do not recommend it, because, as has been said, the proposed fines send a strong signal. In addition, a number of other serious criminal law measures are possible. I've already mentioned it. We must now be careful not to increase the fines a lot further, and we will soon have an administrative practice that is counterproductive. Then we have achieved less than what we wanted, namely that it really has a pretty frightening criminal effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u180	Thank you. So the amendment doesn't advise you. And there is no other amendment. I'll take a look at the MPs. I think there is a need for a second deadline. Would it be all right if I agreed to a maximum speaking time of three minutes? I even hear "two." Well, for the people who need it three, and for people who don't need it two. There is, however, a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u181	If all members want to take their place, we can start with the second term. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde, who wishes to make use of his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u182	Mr. Chairman. I just said rules are one, enforcement is two, and punishment is three. I tried to keep those three apart. I have asked the Minister of Finance how we can increase the chances of getting out of the crooks, let me just say. The Minister then listed all his instruments, but that was not my question. My question was: how can we help the minister increase the chance of getting caught? So that's not the question of what kind of punishments we're going to impose on them once they've been caught. So I'm gonna ask that question again. According to the WODC, 16 billion are laundered every year. How are we gonna increase the chances of getting caught? Then I come to the punishments the Minister of Justice is about. I must say that I am not aware of the principle that administrative fines should not be higher than fines in criminal law. I understand very well that the Council of State is of the opinion. At the same time, I am regularly harassed by the Law Mulder. You know: if you drive too fast, you get €7 on top. Let's get to that end. I cannot do so much with the principle of proportionality, I must say to the Minister of Justice. In this case, we are talking about the most serious crimes up to terrorism. I think it is perfectly logical that we should set the highest penalties by far. Those sentences aren't mandatory. The supervisor then has the discretion to impose them. So I would say: I think that is highly proportional. I am also waiting for the answers to the questions about UBO. With that UBO registry, I'm waiting for the bill. Then we can talk about that further, but I believe that point has landed. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u183	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u184	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to keeping track of the roll-up of fiscal constructions when we go after the criminals. I think it is very good that the capacity and insight are strengthened, because it is very sinful as a criminal who manages to get behind bars for serious behavior, can again benefit from the money he earns when he gets out, because he knows how to park it somewhere in a fiscal construction. Very good. It's a good thing we're being informed, too. It is good that we are also informed about the details of the delegation provisions. I think that's just good to do. I still have a question about the register of the final stakeholders, the ones who deserve the money if you unravel everything. I also asked: is the Chamber of Commerce in order? We have also noticed from time to time at that interrogation committee that we thought we had complete information. But then we were facing a trust manager who we then asked, "God, how do you do that, run 26 companies?" And then he said, "Oh, no, there's 63 of them! There were always more of them. That didn't come up after all. We also received signals that in the register of the Chamber of Commerce there were companies, nvs and e.g. who no longer met all kinds of conditions and hung in there like some kind of dead wood. So such a register of end-of-life stakeholders can offer the possibility of getting that "cleaning" I think such a big word "cleaning" in order. Then I have a motion, because I think it is very serious that a trust office or staff of that trust office should be mentioned as the potential final interested party. That's not right. They need to find out who their client is, who the beneficiary is. They must know that the money is of good origin, otherwise they must not offer their services. Then I do not think there can be a situation in which the final stakeholders are not known or entered in the register. Since the Minister is not actually moving on this point, I have tabled the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cover-up of the final interested party with regard to financial constructions should be countered by a so-called UBO register;]] [[noting that a trust office often represents interests to prevent the ultimate interested party from becoming known and that this form can be used for tax avoidance, tax evasion, money laundering and/or terrorist financing;]] [[noting that the Government provides that senior management staff of a trust office may also be registered in the register as a final beneficiary;]] [[Considers that the possibility to include senior management staff from a trust office as the ultimate beneficiary of a tax arrangement does not give rise to any right to counter the veiling;]] [[calls on the Government, in the development of the UBO register, to make it impossible for trust office staff to be used to keep the final interested party out of sight of the tax or judicial authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34808-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u185	Then I have one comment, or actually a question, to the Minister of Justice. I've always understood that when it comes to entering a route of punishment, you can choose the administrative or criminal route. At the time you opt for criminal law, you can't also get an administrative fine, or the other way around. You cannot be convicted twice in this country for a crime. So the moment you go on the route of the administrative penalty, I think it's good that the supervisor puts the fine very high. That is what we have done in the NVWA. In cases of food scandals, we saw that the fines imposed by the NVWA on the companies concerned did not have sufficient deterrent effect, which, for example, allowed them to market heavily polluted salmon, thereby damaging public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte, who will probably table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u187	Correct, Chairman. And no, Mr Nijboer, no dance or singing. I would just like to thank the two ministers for their reply and for their consultation with Minister Dekker. We are still waiting for the answer to the question about the relationship between the UBOs and the trust offices. Since a trust office is there to observe business for people who don't do it themselves, the question remains what the usefulness and necessity of accepting a trust manager as UBO is. Finally, a comment on the threshold for establishing a shareholdership as a final interested party. The Minister noted that there is a European threshold and that it now becomes an indication of a hard threshold. Our question is where this indication will be made. Cutting five times is a lot easier than cutting eleven times - eleven stromens are harder to find than five stromens. That is why we still think it is a good proposal to go back to the original 10% standard used by De Nederlandsche Bank. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the registration of the Ultimate Beneficial Owner (UBO) is important for the detection and prosecution of money laundering and tax evasion;]] [[considers that a UBO registry has a deterrent effect in advance;]] [[considers that strengthening the definition of UBO supports both impacts;]] [[noting that the development of the UBO register follows in an implementation law to be sent to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the government to strengthen the definition of UBO from 25% +1 to 10%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34808-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought you said "CDA," but maybe that's just because of the time and I heard it wrong. I thank the rulers for their reply. I thought the answer to the question of privacy was still a little general. I would like to ask the Minister to give a detailed account of the privacy issues that have already been exchanged in the final legislative proposal on the UBO register in the explanatory memorandum. That will prevent a lot of questions in the further discussion. In that context, I have one specific question. In the note to the report on the legislative proposal we are discussing today, there is another sentence on the common fund. That's also a way to invest with multiple UBOs. The question is also this: will this also be part of the registration of UBO information? I wonder if that's final. I would like to hear whether that is going to happen, because otherwise, in the light of what Mr Paternotte said, too, we are making it too easy for people to put their abilities together and escape these kinds of registrations. Finally, I noticed that both directors, who still run two very influential ministries, did not comment on my suggestion to better identify the options that Member States have to make their own choices. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the implementation of European directives in Dutch legislation there is often no comprehensive overview of how other EU Member States deal with Member State options;]] [[Whereas it is important for the Court's information position to know as well as possible how other Member States handle the implementation of European legislation and which Member State options have been chosen by which Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to promote greater transparency at European level on the choice of Member State options by other Member States and to inform the Court as fully as possible in the consideration of future legislative proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Paternotte and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34808-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u189	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u190	Thank you. I would like to look at the directors if they are able to answer the questions directly and give an appreciation of the motions tabled. There's a need for a five-minute suspension, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u191	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance to answer the questions and give an appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u192	Thank you. Mr. Grapperhaus just got sprinted, so we're back together again. First, I'll take a few things back from the first term. I start with the point of Natural Monuments and the political parties. I hid that from myself in the pile of paper that was on my desk. It is important to stress that it is always the natural persons who have the ultimate ownership or the ultimate control. I will give a somewhat longer answer in the direction of Mr Van der Linde. At AMvB, each entity will be defined as "at least'. It is important to point out, however, that this is an association for example in Natural Monuments and almost all political parties. That is another case than Feyenoord, which was also mentioned. As far as I know, that's a nv; possibly there's also an association, but I want to get rid of that. At least Feyenoord has a nv. In the case of an association, you qualify, among other things, those persons who are entitled to a 25% share as UBO upon dissolution of the association. On this basis or on other grounds mentioned in AMvB, would no UBO be found which is not so likely in most cases, but which could be considered as UBO by way of exception. Where, for example, is that relevant? You can imagine, for example, that is relevant to a political party. That could also be the case with Natural Monuments, but I know this case-wise a little less well. Then it's the individual members of the party board, because you have to come up with a solution. In any case, in the case of an NV, for example Feyenoord, the UBOs are those with more than 25% of the shares. I can see Mr Van der Linde wondering: what if there aren't? If there are no natural persons who qualify as UBO on the basis of this logic, there can of course be other forms of ultimate control. This may include the power to appoint or dismiss directors. We go further and further down the list, and come to an ever greater improbability, but it is important that I name it: in the extreme case, by way of exception, the senior management can also be classified as UBO for an NV. But that can really only be done if no other person can be designated with ultimate control on any other ground. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have dealt with the various figures identified in the Civil Code and have given a qualification of how to deal with them in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u193	That raises a question for Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u194	I don't want to make it difficult for the Minister, but the question behind it is: what are these people going to notice? Suppose a million-dollar bequest comes in whose origins are unclear, and then a bank walks to that UBO. Then what's gonna happen? I imagine that the Minister does not want to answer that question right now, but I think that, if we have that legislation for UBOs, it is relevant that we understand what happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u195	I could make it easy by saying: I'm going to answer that question completely. My first answer would be that there is indeed a check. And depending on the case I have just described, so depending on who is to apply there as UBO, an individual or the party board of a political association will have to check what this is about. And quite frankly, with very small gifts, gifts that obviously come from the Netherlands, you can then of course imagine that such an association makes less effort than, for example, when it comes to a very substantial donation from abroad. To be honest, it is not surprising that, in such a case, we are aiming at this together, even though it is annoying that this cost work. This is also true in the logic of that association and of that party administration, where we have really already entered a somewhat more unlikely scenario. Even then, as far as I am concerned, it is more obvious that we, as legislators, say that then we have to get this party administration going then that we say: because you happen to have a party board and because it's all difficult, difficult, we're dismissing you from that obligation. That would be my first answer, but I will go into more detail in the information that is yet to come. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question about the chance of getting caught, and I think Mr Van der Linde too. It's a little complicated, isn't it? We think the UBO is going to increase the chances of getting caught. Of course, it is particularly important for the deterrentness of the instruments how high institutions themselves estimate this chance of taking action. The legislative proposal focuses on this by requiring regulators to publish measures in response to infringements. Hopefully that'll make the mood for doing something down. The actual action will also scare off. I think it's hard to say more about it right now. It seems to me to be typical of what I would be very interested in not only Mr Van der Linde but also in an evaluation. It is, of course, something in which we learn by doing. We also need to see how this situation develops. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked about the Chamber of Commerce. She wasn't automatically optimistic about that, if I may put it that way. She actually asked if there's any order there. The Directive requires UBO information in the UBO register to be adequate, accurate and up-to-date. The draft legislative proposal on the UBO register certainly takes this into account. For example, there will be a reporting obligation for Wwft institutions and competent authorities if they find that they have information other than that in the UBO register. Those notifications will therefore be dealt with by the Chamber of Commerce in an appropriate and expeditious manner. Mr. Chairman. Another question, which also requires further clarification, concerns the trust offices. I shall then move ahead of the motion, which I will say specifically in a moment. The core of the services provided by these trust offices is, of course, acting as the director of the company. If they do, they then have two actions to take according to the Supervisory Trust Office Act, the Wtt. The first is to ascertain who is the one who, often literally, walks in on them or the one who seeks contact. The second is that they have to investigate the target company. That's crucial. We did not have that at the end of the last century, but that is, of course, a crucial second part. So they can't be satisfied with just the one who walks in. Moreover, that research is not just an investigation. The Supervisory Trust Office Act also imposes very strict requirements. That's the point I just wanted to verify. Those trust offices must find full control and must literally turn that Christmas tree around, because that is of course often inside out, until they realize who is ultimately who it is. I wanted to check that too: they are typically well able to do so. Of course it may not be possible to do so, but that is truly exceptional. Then, in theory, we could get into the situation that leaves the bill open and what the motion is about. It is good, I think, to add that in a Dutch situation there is a very large but. DNB supervises and is very active in this area. Of course, DNB doesn't miss the public discussion about trust offices at all. In addition, I come with a tightening of the Wtt in the form of the Wtt 2018. I shall also mention the instruments and the capacity. Did you burn it all up with that? No, not that. Well, we think we'll be doing something really sensible. Moreover, we cannot make this impossible if we want to implement this directive. That is where I run against the limits of the motion. So I am also very willing to evaluate that and see how that happens. We can also see if there are any figures for such an evaluation. But this, if I may put it that way, is a rather theoretical situation, as I understand it. I'll say something extra about the motion itself in a moment, to be precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u196	Did you answer all the questions? I shall give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u197	I mean, and I hope you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u198	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u199	Sorry, there's one more thing I need to discuss, but I'll do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u200	If, as a trust office in all the research you have to do, you cannot guarantee the final stakeholders or the origin of the money, then the Supervisory Trust Office Act does not allow you to offer the service. So if you reason that you have an extreme relapse option in a UBO registry, with which you do offer an opening, you're actually double busy. They can't run that target company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u201	I had not yet heard a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u202	I think she made a speech and would like to respond to what she has just proposed, namely that it should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u203	The Minister says that there may be an extremely extreme case in which the whole Christmas tree has been examined and you really do not know it, and that there is a need for a fallback option. But in the extreme, extreme case that you really don't know, the trust office shouldn't say: oh, I'm going to register myself as UBO. No, then the trust office should say: I will stop this service; if necessary I will return the order. That's gonna be complicated enough, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u204	Would you help the Minister by making a specific question? Because the minister just asked, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u205	The ultimate fallback option is for a situation where a trust office cannot offer its services. Then why would you include an extreme relapse option in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u206	To be specific, the directive leaves this possibility open. We need to implement that directive. I have to say quite frankly that I really should review the law on the specific point that Mrs Leijten refers to before I can give her an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u207	Is it possible for me to take a look at the Minister for Foreign Affairs in order to give a written response and to return to it before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u208	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned, that's for sure. Again, I see what Mrs Leijten means. To be honest, I had the impression that this theoretical possibility does exist, but let me check it out and come back to that. Of course, that particular part is also about another law. That's about the Wtt. I'm not ready to do that, so I should check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u209	In preparing a bill you submit questions. One of the elements of this directive is this register, which we have actually said for a long time: where is it? If the specific written procedure shows that you get an answer that raises major questions, and if you point that out in the first and second periods, then you should just get an answer in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u210	Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u211	Not least because this Chamber has simply allowed a parliamentary interrogation committee to do its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u212	Mrs Leijten, the Minister has indicated that he will return to it in writing. This is a new point in the debate. The Minister has promised to return to this in writing before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u213	Yeah, and the point that won't be left for the Chamber is that you can discuss it. 'Cause then there's gonna be a letter saying, "That's the way it is." Then you can't discuss that further, and then your motion is gone. This will make a debate on something very crucial, something very important, with a cabinet that finally says it wants to do something about tax avoidance...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u214	Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u215	... a little flattened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u216	I myself had the impression that the gap between what Mrs Leijten is saying and what I am saying is not so great. I just want to make sure that I answer exactly when it comes to the Wtt. As I have said, I come up with an update on 2018, but I would like to verify for myself whether it is as Mrs Leijten says, and if she is right, which is the ultimate consequence of that, before I answer her. She will understand that from me, too, for she now refers to another law. So let me make the bridge to the motion. My suggestion wasn't to dissuade the motion anyway. My suggestion would be to consult for a moment, because the word 'impossible' makes it complicated for the purposes of the directive. But if the authors of the motion are open to consultation, then we could also look at it, because there is a lot in the motion that I could agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u217	I would like to look at the first petitioner, Mrs Leijten, if she is prepared to amend her motion in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u218	Of course, I'm always willing to discuss it. I think we want to move on. But my point of frustration is there. I just made that, too. We are preparing ourselves in writing for legal treatment. This is just a switch. I would have liked to finish it here after the written preparation. I'm really sorry I can't finish it right now. Of course we're gonna discuss it. And if you need another word, you need another word. But the final conclusion, I think, should just be that you shouldn't record a trust office used to play hide-and-seek if you want to end the hide-and-seek game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u219	The Minister has agreed to come back to the question. I imagine that's annoying, but the Minister needs to check it out. That's what's gonna happen. In any case, it has been indicated that there is on the first motion, in part No. 9, consultations are still taking place. Could you continue with the motion in part No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u220	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But again, I really have the impression that I am trying to meet Mrs Leijten. I merely outline that, on the basis of the directive, my hands are tied as regards banning or removing that passage from the directive. However, I would like to take part in the debate on Mrs Leijten's point, where we simply need to study the WNT, at least by myself. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second motion, the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Lee. I'd already gotten into it so excitedly. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. I think I need to repeat what I said earlier. The percentage is an indication. Persons with a lower percentage can also qualify as UBO. It's about whether someone has the ultimate ownership or control. Again, the discussion is again about how far you want to go and how much administrative burden you want to get yourself into. You can go to 10%, but if you go to 10%, you'll find a lot more people like that. That also clouds the view of those who pull the strings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u222	Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Van der Lee's motion. in piece No. 11 on transparency and implementation of Member State options. That is an extremely broad question, which will also require a great deal of homework. My procedural proposal would be to take that up again, because I believe that a similar question has already been put to the Foreign Affairs Committee. This is about an area of policy far beyond mine. I think there's still an answer to that. I would therefore ask the proposers to hold the motion, regardless of my qualification, that it is an incredible amount of work if we had to do this for every legislative proposal at this level of detail for all Member States. But procedurally, I would ask you to buy some time and consult with the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u223	Let me look at the first petitioner, Mr Van der Lee, if he is prepared to hold on to his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u224	I am prepared to do so, provided that a reasonable period is observed and it does not disappear again on a pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u225	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u226	I'm always for reasonable. I am particularly interested in what Mr Van der Lee thinks is reasonable. If we're both gonna talk in a couple of weeks, that should be possible. I'm also gonna take a look at my officials in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u227	I'll agree if it's a few weeks. I'd like to take the opportunity to just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u228	At the request of Mr Van der Lee, I propose his motion (34808, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u229	That had to be established first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u230	I had asked a second question about the common fund. To what extent will it be involved in the registration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u231	May I return to that in writing? Because I've answered an incredible amount of actual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u232	I think it would be a good idea for you to come back to that in writing. Thank you, Minister. I am now looking at the Minister of Justice and Security for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u233	Madam President. My second term is actually limited to two things. The first point is the chance of getting caught. I think it is very important to underline something else. Precisely because of this kind of regulation, by carefully formulating it and by a good description of the crime, you increase the chance of getting caught. I would have liked to have said that from the expertise of J and V, but I think it is a very right point made by Mr Van der Linde. Because that is precisely what this is all about if we want to tackle this kind of unacceptable activity. The one about the chance of getting caught. Let me now turn to the matter of the Council of State. I am not going to repeat everything I said about this in the first term. The important thing is this. The Council of State is our highest administrative judge and we must, of course, look carefully at such an unsolicited opinion on the functioning of the administrative fine in this case. The Council of State is also concerned with the effectiveness of the administrative fine. We shouldn't be misunderstanding about that. It is about legal protection, but it is also about the effectiveness of the administrative penalty as a sanction imposed. I do not want to say that the administrative penalty comes in a somewhat different category of legal protection, in which you are going to examine matters such as the administrative principle of proportionality. Mrs Leijten has rightly said something about this. It's not like there's a hard and fast rule: if you go one path, you can't hit the other. It is true that, in most cases, a choice is made between administrative law and criminal law. Criminal law will often have to be preferred here, if only because you can ask for international legal aid. We can assume that in many cases we also talk about people or parties who have an international component, if only because otherwise they would not have had to hide behind all kinds of structures. To make a long story short: raising the administrative penalty has the risk that that choice might be made sooner, while this could lead to "horse behind the car"-like situations. I would like to emphasise once again, because I fully agree with the Members of Parliament, Mr Leijten and Mr Van der Linde, who have proposed this amendment, that there must be a whole criminal policy on it. That's what's there. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the following. These are often natural persons who have achieved considerable benefits in the material, monetary sphere. It is precisely by imposing unconditional custodial sentences that we are so hard on those natural persons. At least that's what we say in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u234	Mr Van der Linde must address that, but I shall give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u235	I suddenly got all kinds of memories of my thesis, which was also partly about the two-way theory and everything that goes with it. Here's what I'm gonna do. I respect what the Minister says about the Council of State and the Supreme Administrative Court and so on. However, the primacy here should lie with the legislative power, and that is what we are here, I say briefly. So I do not feel very strongly about withdrawing that amendment now. I understand that the vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u236	March 6th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u237	Then we've got a little time. I would like to discuss with the Minister whether we can do something that really increases the penalty rate considerably and still fits within the dotted lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u238	Minister, you've already extended your appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u239	It's also a late moment. By midnight, you're going to see a huge rapprochement between us. Well, that's very nice, anyway. Van der Linde is absolutely right. I'd like to say that. The legislative power ultimately makes that difference. But he and I do not want to see headlines like "UBO Jacobse and Van Es get but this or that as administrative fine after the judge's decision" for us, I cannot say "trust company" while the criminal road seems to be a much more likely road, also in the light of international legal aid. But I'd like to stress the approach. Let us indeed use those days to have another conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u240	Shall we leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u241	If we're gonna keep that target in mind, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u242	Look. Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I still had a question for the Minister about the requests for legal aid. He just called them himself. I'd like to hear his views on this. How are we going to offer that register as transparently as possible? Because if we do so and other countries do so, it will make it easier for the Dutch authorities to find out about the UBO, but also for countries in the Union when it comes to UBOs that have something in the Netherlands. Isn't it better that we just make that transparent? That is much more effective to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u244	How are you going to do that, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u245	Yeah, you know. I'm just a sidekick, as you've heard. I keep hearing that from ministers, so I ordered a sidecar for my next birthday. However, I would like to say this: we need to discuss this with each other in the framework of the JHA Council, because this is, of course, just a directive that we are now implementing. You know that a very important change was adopted in December which offers a great deal of opportunity, I think, to tackle this type of crime properly. But I'm telling you quite frankly that we need to talk about how to link that transparency as closely as possible. The only thing I can tell you about this is that we are going to have you in the future, and you do not want to have a distant future, I have just understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u246	Thank you. We'll talk to each other. Those words are left behind. I would like to thank the two directors very much for their contribution tonight. I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-23.u247	On legislative proposal 34808, the amendment and the motions we are going to vote on 6 March. The same applies to the motions tabled in response to the VAO banking sector. Finally, I would like to thank the people at home and, of course, the staff.
