ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the VAO Existence of minimum Caribbean Netherlands. A warm welcome to the Secretary of State. I should like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	The Netherlands is a very rich country, but on Saba, Statia and Bonaire there is a lot of poverty. Two years ago, this Chamber said that there should be an investigation into the cost of living and that the social minimum should be set. All parties in this Chamber supported that, except the VVD and the PVV. Since then we have received very large stacks of reports; my bookcase is half full of them. And it's become clear that a lot of people on Saba, Bonaire and Statia can't make ends meet. But a social minimum has not been set, and that is what the Chamber has requested. It has been said that this is all complicated because the situation of people is so different. Well, so is the Netherlands, but in the Netherlands we do have a social minimum. And then it is said: yes, but we want to reduce the cost of living. Well, fine. Then we can adjust the social minimum accordingly. But this Chamber has asked for a social minimum, the First Chamber has asked for it and then the government has to deliver. And the parties who thought that was a good idea two years ago should now also find that a good idea. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber has requested that a social minimum be set for Bonaire, Saba and Statia, on the basis of the cost of living (motie-Van Raak/Van Laar (34550-IV, piece No. 9));]] [[noting that, while this motion was accompanied by an examination of the cost of living on the islands, no social minimum was laid down;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a social minimum for Bonaire, Saba and Statia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raak and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	Plans have been made. Sometimes they're concrete, in general they're vague. And then it is said: we are going to see what we can achieve in the years to come. But then you have to have a purpose. And the goal must be a social minimum. And that's what I'm asking from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I shall now go to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out in the consultation, as a CDA, we consider it very important that there is a perspective for the people. At the moment, we can only say that there is a great deal of hopelessness and that many people are experiencing severe poverty. I have already indicated that we are therefore in favour of a multi-annual approach and a multi-annual action plan. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for a significant effort to improve living conditions in the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[Whereas a coordinated, structural approach is necessary to address the problems in the BES islands in order to give residents a better life perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an integrated multi-annual (at least five years) governance agreement on each island, including mutual performance commitments, aimed at reducing poverty and improving living conditions, increasing self-sufficient activities of the BES islands (infrastructure, agriculture, energy) at the same time as promoting good governance and sound financial management (including through strengthening and training of the administration),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Berg, Bosman, Van der Graaf and Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	Another plan, another investigation, another report: my bookcase is almost full. Two years ago, the CDA made a promise to people on Bonaire, Saba and Statia. Two years ago, the CDA said: I support the SP proposal, there must be a social minimum. Now the CDA says: well, let's make another plan so that we can do it alongside all the other plans. Does the CDA understand that people on the islands get very angry about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	I have already indicated in the debate that we are very pleased that this report is finally here. We've all been waiting a long time for that. I indicated further in the debate, which the Secretary of State also made very clear, that you should also look at the cost side. This includes housing, where private rent is not yet organised as we know it in the Netherlands, rent allowance, and also what Mr Bosman has said on several occasions, that on the one hand a million is spent on agriculture but on the other hand few results are visible. We also want to make sure that something happens on that cost side and on that house side. That is why we are not asking for a report or an investigation, but rather for concrete actions and mutual obligations to achieve results. That's literally what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	I'd love it if the cost of living would fall. Perfect. Then maybe the social minimum can go down, too. But it is now important that people have been told something for eight years, without concrete goals and without concrete results. And a social minimum is a concrete goal. That's what we promised two years ago. The CDA promised that, too. Why did the CDA break that promise now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	The CDA has indicated that it still wants to achieve that social minimum. However, action must be taken on both sides. That is why we say that on that cost side and on that housing side things must be done on the BES islands before the social minimum is fixed in this way. We have also made it clear, in consultation with the Secretary of State, that we not only want to see a spot on the horizon, but a very concrete plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	I thank Mrs van den Berg. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. For GroenLinks, a social minimum is a human rights issue, a right that belongs to all who live in the Netherlands. In the European Netherlands, the Empire largely determines the income policy with all kinds of social services, schemes and allowances. There are rents, care payments, poverty payments and childcare allowances. Unfortunately, in the Caribbean Netherlands, these supportive social measures do not exist for a dignified existence. In the European Netherlands, the cost of living is the benchmark for setting the social minimum. This is in order to prevent citizens in the Netherlands who are no longer able to provide their essential necessities and thus have the chance to find themselves in extreme poverty and cannot achieve their right to food, clothing and shelter, with all the negative consequences of this, from having any certainty of a decent existence. Unfortunately, in the islands, citizens do not enjoy this protection. The Human Rights College and the Ombudsman are concerned about poverty, the insufficient minimum of living, insufficient affordable housing, insufficient access to human rights protection and protection against domestic violence. These problems are all closely interrelated. Better living conditions, decent living and basic social services are a common task and not just a matter for the island authorities. GroenLinks wants to speed up and put an end to the unjustified division and inequality in our Kingdom. That is why we are calling for a minimum social standard and I have supported the motion that Mr Van Raak has just made. In addition, I have an additional, other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of the Caribbean Netherlands, special local conditions allow derogations from Dutch laws and regulations;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid legal disparities between Caribbean and European Dutch;]] [[calls on the Government to depart from Dutch laws and regulations only if this is to the advantage of residents of the Caribbean Netherlands and to inform the Chamber when this is the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. Last week I indicated: life on the islands is expensive. Wages are lower, we have heard that some people sometimes have to live on three jobs and that it is not quite possible to make ends meet. It also has very big consequences, because if you have to live three jobs, you can't spend much time with your kids. We know that bonding is one of the biggest problems children have to deal with. That therefore requires a much broader approach and right away. The Christian Union supports measures along the three lines proposed by the Cabinet to increase income and benefits on the one hand, such as child benefit and general old-age insurance, but also to reduce the cost of living, such as housing, messages requiring a more complex approach, water and electricity, and to strengthen the economy by investing in carriers such as agriculture and tourism. We're not here yet. The Christian Union wants us to work towards setting a standard for the social minimum. We therefore believe that the government should do everything in its power to achieve this. The general consultation showed that what else is needed will not be considered until 2020. It's too late for us. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is taking important steps to improve the income position of the inhabitants of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba and to combat poverty;]] [[Whereas the Government has set a standard for the social minimum in the BES Islands as a spot on the horizon;]] [[calls on the government to indicate, in its commitment to report in 2019, what steps still need to be taken to establish a social minimum standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Graaf, Diertens, Bosman, Van den Berg and Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	I'm kind of sorry about this, to be honest. And I'm a little freaked out about this, too. Two years ago, the Christian Union said that there must be a minimum social level. A lot of research has been done, poverty is even worse than we thought, it has gotten worse. Then the Christian Union was in the opposition, now they are in the government, and what does the Christian Union say now: in the future we need to see if there is a social minimum. That's not what we agreed to. People on the islands also think: yes, the Christian Union is there for us when they are in opposition, but when they are on the buttons, they abandon us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'll fight that very hard. As I have just said, the Christian Union wants a social minimum to be set. To be honest, I was disappointed when I read the report that we couldn't pass it on one-on-one to set a social minimum now. That is why I have just asked the Christian Union to do so, and we must do everything we can. I do not want to wait until 2020 to see what is still needed. No, the Secretary of State has agreed to come forward with a report before the summer. I want it to indicate what is still needed. 'Cause we just have to get here real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr Van Raak, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	And perhaps a short response to the accusation that we are not there for the islands when we are in the coalition. The Christian Union strongly supports the measures to increase family allowances, as well as those to increase old age benefits. We'll work on that. We made that decision when we were in the coalition. Are we there yet? No, you heard me say that: that is why we need to go a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Van Raak, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	Now I have tabled a motion with my neighbor: calls on the government to set a social minimum for Bonaire, Saba and Statia. Then I think Mrs Van der Graaf can support them if I listen to her words in response to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	I've taken note of that motion. I'm sure I'll take that into account. You heard my words. And I would also like to have the reaction of the Secretary of State, how she now assesses that motion from the past. We can see that no minimum social standards have yet been set, so I would also like to hear the Secretary of State's explanation of how she still looks at the assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	I do not quite understand what Mrs Van der Graaf is saying here, even by referring the problems back to the future with her motion. You yourself saw in our work visit, also in conversations with different people, what the situation is: the poignant poverty. You had to work out a shopping list that scared you. The Human Rights College says "rule the social minimum," the Ombudsman asks for it, and you're not going to ask for a plan until 2019? I can't rhyme with this. Can you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mrs Özütok completely misunderstood me. I'm very sorry about that for her. I said: the Christian Union wants a social minimum to be set. I note that there is no such thing now. I can't explain that here today either. That is why I do not want to wait, as was changed during the general discussion with the rulers. It would not be possible to look further until 2020. I think that is far too late, and that is why I say: come to the Chamber in six months, before the summer, but with concrete proposals this way. That's what I wanted with the motion. I hope for support from Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	I note a regrettable lack of sense or urgency with Madame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	I'll fight that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I call Mrs Diertens of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Graaf has just tabled a motion asking above all for speed. I actually want to have that pace in a kind of turbo, so that we can not only talk about possible steps by 2020, but we can take steps by 2019. In addition, I have two motions of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that childcare is currently not attractive to many parents because the costs are high and the quality is not always sufficient;]] [[Whereas good childcare can make a positive contribution to the development of young children and to the prevention of language disadvantages;]] [[Whereas childcare for families in the BES islands in poverty has a broader function such as contributing to a healthy diet and care such as a hot shower;]] [[Whereas wider access to childcare can lead to more employment both in the sector itself and by making it more attractive to work as a parent;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with local organisations, to strengthen the quality of childcare in the BES islands as soon as possible and to make childcare widely available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one third of households in the BES islands have an income below 75% of the reference budget;]] [[noting that according to the experts interviewed, regular debts are incurred in order to be able to pay accounts;]] [[Whereas debt relief and poverty policy are tasks of public bodies but not always the expertise required;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support public bodies to professionalise the approach to poverty and debt and to define policies in regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diertens, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Bosman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-8]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diertens, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Bosman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. However, a number of motions have been tabled, including those on childcare. I would also like to mention Nina den Heyer, our former deputy of Bonaire, who has been working on this for many years. So it would also be a great success for her. Thanks to both Secretary of State. They're working hard, they're pragmatic, they're working on solutions and they're working hard. Hands on the crew, I'd almost say. And if I say "plow," I'm going to end up with agriculture, of course. It's a million a year. A million a year on Bonaire doesn't disappear into the ground, but somewhere in someone's pocket or... I don't know about anyone. I am very disappointed, because agriculture is really one of the key elements for work, for good food, for cheaper food; for all those things that are so important, not only for Bonaire, but also for Saba and Saint-Eustatius. Having agriculture gives a chance to export and more of those things, but it doesn't come off the ground. It's literally not coming off the ground. As long as we're planning. I did not put it in a motion and I might surprise the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations because I have not yet said it to an AO, but would it be possible for the Netherlands to actively take over Bonaire's agricultural policy? Would it be possible to deposit it into a foundation or a ZBO, with which the finances then go that way and whose management is then such that agriculture can get off the ground? We can then set a time limit of five years, but it is so important. That is my question to the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations. Maybe he doesn't have an answer because I surprise him with this, but I hope he will answer it in the long run, because there are many opportunities and opportunities. In fact, I've just spoken to a company that's got everything ready and almost, or almost, that's just being countered by Bonaire's drivers. I'm sorry about that. So maybe we should go a little harder. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend for five minutes and then we'll continue with the cabinet's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make the motions on pieces Nos. 4 and 5 comment and answer Mr Bosman's question. The other motions will be answered by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. The motion in part No. 5 by Mrs Van den Berg, Mr Bosman, Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Diertens, the government requests the development of an integral multi-annual administrative agreement on each island including mutual obligations to achieve results. I find that in itself a sympathetic thought. At the moment, for example, we are in the process of drawing up an administrative agreement with Bonaire on the basis that agreements are made on both sides, so that everyone knows what needs to be done. It requires two-way efforts to solve the problems currently facing the BES. That requires an effort on the part of the cabinet. We have now had this debate on the minimum standard of living and the efforts to increase revenue. But more needs to be done in the areas of good governance and economics. That is what this is all about, and that is why I can very well support that idea. I would like to make the point that I would like to have the space to be able to apply customization to each island, because the situation on the three BES islands, Saba, St Eustatius and Bonaire, is completely different. On Saint-Eustatius, we are now in a temporary situation where we ourselves have the authority of the island, and that we can follow immediately the measures and priorities that have been set by the island. There are a lot of things going very well on Saba. I'm very willing to do that, especially if the drivers want to do it there. If I may read the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	The motion in part No. 4 gets "judgment room."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	The motion in part No. 6 from Mrs Özütok asks the government to depart from Dutch laws and regulations only if this is in favour of residents of the Caribbean Netherlands and the House of Representatives to inform when this is the case. Here's what I can say. At the moment, an AIV report has been presented, which has also been offered to me, which looks at the fundamental rights and the differences between them within the Kingdom. This report is currently the subject of discussion within the Cabinet. Before the end of the year, that is at least my intention, a cabinet response will follow, because several departments are involved. I'd like to wait and see anyway. So we're working on that. More generally and also aimed at the motion, as I read the operative part, we are committed to equality rather than equality. It is not possible for a motion to say that it must all be done in the same way, there is too much difference. That is not feasible at the moment, and the islands themselves do not want that either. And with the final piece of the motion, the thesis that if there are differences that can only be done if it is in favour of the islands, you de facto and dejure actually create a kind of unequal situation. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thanks for the answer. In view of the State Secretary's reply, I suggest that I wait for that report. Considering your reaction, I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (35000-IV, No. 6) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	Then there is Mr Bosman's question concerning Bonaire, the LVV, the agricultural service there, and its operation. That is also a matter of concern to me. We can hardly say that this has been a success and that there has been sufficient return on investment in recent years, if there has been investment. It really has to be different, also in the context of the earning capacity of the island itself. That will also be part of the governance agreement. We're really gonna make agreements about that with Bonaire. By the way, Bonaire himself also sees that it is not a success. The art now is to move from that observation to an action that is positive and in the interest of Bonaire's inhabitants and government. This will therefore become part of that governance agreement. I hope it can be signed by the end of this year. I take with me all the other comments made by Mr Bosman on this. I do not yet foresee that we should adopt this, but we do want to make firm agreements to allow the money that is being put into it to end up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	That's a good thing, but a lot of agreements have been made with Bonaire's board. It doesn't help that there is a different board of directors every time, but the agreements made are also not kept. I therefore share the positivity of this Secretary of State and the ambition to regulate it properly. I understand the governance agreement needs to land well, and I'd be happy to wait for it. But the Secretary of State needs to know that we're all watching, because in the meantime, I know the board of directors of Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	I know Mr Bosman as someone who will not soon let go of this point. He doesn't do that until after it's done properly. Of course, part of the governance agreement will also be that you make agreements about what happens if one of the parties fails to comply with these agreements that you have signed. Because chords are fine, but the important thing is that they are also realized. That applies from both sides, by the way. It also applies to the Dutch side, so the conclusion of such an agreement is not without obligations. If in the case of Bonaire agreements around the Agriculture Department are not complied with, or not in a good way, then you must already, in the front, make agreements about what happens then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	I also informed the AO about the suggestion that an implementation organisation could be set up. Together with what is laid down in the governance agreement, those business plans that are actually there can also be implemented. I think that is also a very important point. Then together with the people who want to do this, we can also give hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	This actually fits in perfectly with that. This is exactly the point. The earning capacity available is not being used up enough. There are plans but insufficient follow-up and implementation. There are also the points of attention, also within the framework of that administrative agreement. How can you guarantee the capacity, the quality and the official organisation, so that the good things happen? Paper is patient, but in the end I care about the results. The directors of Bonaire will ultimately be the same. We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, who I forgot to mention just now, and now the Secretary of State for Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I was a guest on the Committee for Kingdom Relations and that was an extremely pleasant experience. It was a good and solid debate and I thank the Members of Parliament for their input, both during the general discussion and in this VAO. It was also good to have that debate together, because as a cabinet we feel a special responsibility but also co-ordinated cooperation. I am also delighted to do so with my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It is now specifically a question of examining the social minimum. A lot of words have been exchanged about this, and I think that is right. It is a very important point that has been mentioned for many years. I would also like to repeat in this Chamber that I am very concerned about the standard of living of citizens in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. I think it is very important that the people of Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius get better. That brings me to Mr Van Raak's first motion. The whole thought of the investigation carried out following the Van Raak/Van Laar motion was to arrive at a social minimum. Now he's going to table another motion to tell us to do that. It is true, however, that this research has shown that it is not possible at the moment to set a minimum social standard. That is why you have the expenditure on the one hand and the revenue on the other. We have therefore increased family allowances, the AOV and the under stand, and increased the special under stand. In addition, we have filled in the employers' space so that the WML can go up and the benefit can go up, and we have made sure that we help people with job placement and childcare. So we do a lot of things. At the same time, I would like to say to Mr Van Raak that the Van Raak/Van Laar motion calls on the government to 'not call the increased under stand a social minimum and to set the social minimum on the basis of the cost of living'. I have to say, when I read this, that I am still in the process of carrying out that 2016 motion, and I therefore advise against his motion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	The Secretary of State has just said that Saba, Saint Eustatius and Bonaire cannot be regarded as a social minimum, and that had to do with income and expenditure. Well, you have it in the Netherlands, too. People in the Netherlands also have income and expenditure, and yet we manage to set a social minimum in the Netherlands for all different people with different situations. Sometimes even more different because there are all kinds of surcharges and states. Why can't you just set a social minimum, one for Saba, one for Statia and one for Bonaire?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	In the debate we had on this subject in general, a number of political groups talked about the fact that there are only notes. Well, I'd also like to show you what's happening. That is why I have just mentioned all the concrete actions we are taking. At the same time, I say to the people on the islands: I understand that you want to see first and then believe. So I would like to emphasise in the Chamber what we are going to do. If the objective, as Mr Van Raak literally said from behind the cathedral, is to set a social minimum, then I say: my objective is that people get it better. I am now taking a number of concrete steps in this direction. I also keep my finger on the pulse, because we need to see how this works out in practice. That is why we are also conducting an evaluation during this cabinet period, so that we are at the right moment. In the meantime, as I say in all constructivity to Mr Van Raak, I am still carrying out the motion he tabled in 2016. That work has not yet been completed, because in the end it is important to achieve a social minimum in this discussion with the aim of making it better for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Van Raak, we're not going to do the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	What's that social minimum, then? That's a question I asked last week. That's a question I asked two years ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	And the one you're gonna ask one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	... where the entire House of Representatives has said, apart from the VVD and the PVV, that we support. What's the point? What's the target? What are all these good intentions supposed to lead to? What's the social minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	That is why we did the research and it showed that it is not now possible to establish that. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in a number of very specific areas, from child support to childcare, from AOV to under stand and WML, we have taken very concrete actions. On the other hand, the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations is also busy with them. We are working with all departments to reduce the cost of living. That is a necessary step. I would like to keep my finger on the pulse of whether this is actually working out in this cabinet period. It's about doing things now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr. Van Raak, you have been given ample opportunity to exchange views with the Secretary of State. You don't agree, that's obvious. Your motion gets, I think, judgment "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	I hadn't heard the Secretary of State say that. Just a brief comment, Mr. Van Raak, and then we'll move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	I am arguing that it is not possible to set a social minimum. I think the Secretary of State just doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Secretary of State gives her opinion on the motion in part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	Yes, Mr President, and I consider it a very important responsibility to take steps now and, above all, to do things. I come to Mrs Van der Graaf's motion on item No. 7. This motion is in line with the government's genuine ambition to set a real social minimum in the long term. I think that setting out in the report in 2019 what steps still need to be taken in order to establish that standard for the social minimum is perfectly applicable. That is, of course, true in the sense that we can then reach preliminary conclusions, because the real evaluation will come in 2020. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u55	The motion in part No. 7 gets "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u56	Then I come to the motion on part No. 8 by Mrs Diertens on childcare. I share the ambition expressed by Mrs Diertens and by others during the general consultation. It is in the interests of children in the islands that there should be a strong quality impulse and that the financial accessibility of childcare should also be improved. The pace has to be there. At the same time, as we have also shared in the debate, it must be well thought out and in line with the specific circumstances in the Caribbean Netherlands, but above all it is important that the approach is supported by the islands and stakeholders on the ground. If I may read the motion in such a way that I can explicitly include it in the consultation with the islands of the Caribbean Netherlands, which I am curious about their reaction to the proposals, and I will make that assessment very clear in the consideration, I can give the 'judgement chamber' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u57	The motion in part No. 8 gets "judge chamber." Finally, the motion in part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u58	That is the motion by Mrs Diertens, Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Bosman and Mrs Van den Berg on support for poverty. I see the struggle with public bodies to shape island poverty policies and the debt approach in a professional way. On the basis of a specific request for assistance, I am very happy to support or assist public bodies in organising this support. I also see the need to lay down policies in regulations or policies so that people know where they stand. At present, this is not enough. I would certainly like to help with that, if requested. So I would like to talk to the public authorities about what they consider desirable and necessary to professionalise poverty policy and the debt approach. In doing so, I shall leave this motion to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u59	The motion in part No. 9 is left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u60	The measures you intend to implement, which we are very pleased with, also have an impact on tax payments, which can in turn affect people who already have little money. I would appreciate it if you could include that in your considerations, in the overall package. You're talking about making the living cheaper. That also has an effect on that livelihood. Would you care to be aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u61	Sure. If there are financial aspects, I will of course involve them, but that is not the main focus. It's primarily about people finding out in their own lives that it's actually getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u62	I would like to thank both Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. That brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u63	The votes on these motions are Tuesday.
