ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr J.W. Van Hulst. I ask the Members to stand up. "The sun was as old as ever. His days were numbered, the sun shone his hands that were folded in his lap and the sun shone the view that is silent and open lay all the way down. He looked till he opened his eyes. and vanished into itself forever." This poem with the title End was recorded by Adriaan Roland Holst. Roland Holst was a beloved poet of Johan van Hulst. On 22 March last, the former senator died for the CHU and the CDA at the age of 107. Mr Van Hulst was a member of the First Chamber for almost 25 years, from 3 July 1956 to 10 June 1981. Johan Wilhelm van Hulst was born on 28 January 1911 in Amsterdam, as the second of four children in a reformed family. His father was a furniture upholstery worker. He went through primary school and the mulo. Van Hulst succeeded in 1929 for his lower education certificate of the school. In 1931 he obtained the master's certificate. From 1929 to 1938, he was a teacher at primary schools in Oudewater and Utrecht. Meanwhile, he studied at the Vrije Universiteit, first History, later Psychology, Pedagogy and Literature. From 1938 to 1942 he was professor of History at the HBS in Purmerend and lecturer in Dutch and History at the Reformed School of Culture in Amsterdam, of which he became vice-director in 1940. From 1942 to 1960 he was director of the same school. When it was decreed in 1943 that all Jews should be deported, they were housed in the Hollandsche Schouwburg, which was opposite the Kweekschool. The children were separated from the parents and went to the nursery where the garden was adjacent to that of the Kweekschool. Van Hulst had vague suspicions about what happened to deported Jews. Together with the director of the nursery, he came up with a plan to get children to flee. In the evening, the employees of the crèche brought small groups of children through the garden to the Kweekschool, where Van Hulst collected them and passed them through the front door to ready resistance people. That way within a few months hundreds of children escaped deportation. Johan van Hulst later said about this period: "You are trying to do your duty. That people will not be able to say, "He stood by, and he looked at it." At some point he was betrayed and went into hiding until the end of the war. In 1945 he continued his work as director of the Kweekschool. In 1960 Johan van Hulst made the switch to the university, to be precise the Vrije Universiteit. There he was associated with the department of Pedagogy of the Faculty of Literature and Philosophy. On 9 March 1962 he obtained his PhD and on 1 July 1963 he was appointed professor of Pedagogy. He would remain so until his retirement in 1976, more than 40 years ago. Mr Van Hulst's political career began in 1956 when he was asked by the CHR, of which he had become a member at the age of 18, to sit in the Upper Chamber. He said yes and was sworn in this Chamber on 3 July 1956. He was a "How else can it be "educator for his party." He was also a member of the European Parliament from 1961 to 1968. From 1969 to 1972 he was also party chairman of the CHR. From 1968 until his departure from the Chamber on 10 June 1981 he was chairman of the political group, from 1977 for the CDA. Mr Van Hulst said goodbye at the time because of the age limit of 70 years set by his party. In this Chamber, he fights the Mammoet Act from the very beginning. He calls this a monster long that will strangle education. A few years after the actual introduction of the Mammoet Act, Van Hulst says in the debate with Minister Van Kemenade of Education: "Education can become a chaotic situation if we push one structure over another. (...) Each new structure requires balanced experiments. However, we do not experiment with pebbles or flower bulbs, but with children, with youth. A failed school experiment can cast a shadow over a human life." It characterizes him: teacher and politician in one piece. In addition to Education, Mr Van Hulst also spoke about Foreign Affairs and Defence. As chairman of the political group, he called the Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet 'definitely not necessary evil' in 1977 but 'not a supernatural good'. In his biography entitled "Johan W. van Hulst pedagogue, politician, resistance man" from 2015, Van Hulst says about his time in the Senate: "I attach great importance to stylish political companies, to a well-groomed speech. (...) Opponents fought you, if necessary sharp, but you remained neatly opposite each other, respectfully." Until only a few years ago Johan van Hulst took part in meetings of the Society of Old Senators. To colleagues Van Hulst said: "The body does not want anymore, but the head is still good." That was also the case when he spoke three years ago in this Chamber on the occasion of the presentation of his biography. In this biography, colleague Nagel discusses his chess friendship with Van Hulst. Together they participated in the Parliamentary Championship of the Hoogovens Tournament from 1980. Nagel writes: "Checking is going well. Johan's been playing for about 93 years. I don't know anyone who has that much experience." From the presentation I remember vividly how Van Hulst spoke to those present in his thanks with a powerful voice and a clear story. But above all, I remember his modesty. So he said about the biography: "Did you really think I was so important to myself?" And he quoted these verses of Roland Holst: "We were not missed before us, and after us going away it will be no different." In the light of his impressive record of service described in many memoriams in recent weeks, the latter will probably never happen. Mr van Hulst has been widely distinguished. In 1967 he was appointed Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion. The European Parliament awarded him the gold medal in 1969. He received the Israeli award Yad Vashem in 1973, and in 1981 he was appointed Commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau by his farewell to this house. Johan van Hulst led an extraordinary life. We'll remember him as an icon of democracy. His life as a pedagogue, politician and resistanceman was marked by the democratic values of freedom and equality. May our respect for his person and his great merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for a brief moment.
