ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on a letter of fire from aldermen on house milkers. I would like to welcome the Minister. I want to start right away and give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nationally there is a shortage of about 45,000 rooms. Huisjemelkers benefit from the housing shortage. Tenants pay far too often usury rents, the number of complaints about threats and intimidation is increasing, and now there is also evidence of discrimination. House milkers can get away with too much. There are insufficient legal possibilities to deal with them. It is not for nothing that aldermen from twelve cities ask for more opportunities to tackle wrong landlords. Living threatens to be a luxury while it's supposed to be a right. There is more and more to be earned in the housing market and also buy-to-let investors seize that opportunity. They buy houses by overbiding, and rent them at sometimes bizarre prices. An investigation commissioned by the SP revealed this. Mr. Chairman. First of all, we must prevent tenants from getting into trouble. Now tenants sign overpriced contracts because they're desperate to find a room. Later the tenant can obtain individual rights from the Rent Committee, but many tenants don't dare and so the house milker remains the boss. There's gotta be another way. The SP would like to propose a rental test, with which rental teams can proceed preventively. A house may then be rented only if prior to a new rental is binding, on the basis of the points count, which rental may be requested and it has been established that there are no serious defects. Municipalities could be given additional resources to extend enforcement. I'd like a response. The SP aims to prevent investors buying up houses massively and then renting them out at usury prices with large profits. What does the Minister think of the idea of maintaining the low transfer tax on the first home, but increasing it on all subsequent homes? Mr. Chairman. We must not only prevent, but, unfortunately, we must also heal. Cabin milkers who repeatedly break laws and regulations must be dealt with with with heavy fines. Exploitation is an economic crime. If the landlord continues to exploit, the fine will have to go up sharply and ultimately lead to a total ban on rentals. Now cottage milkers only get a stand when they run into the lamp, and they can just make another mistake with the next tenants. Does the Minister want to make it possible to label housing fraud as an economic offence so that we really hit wrong landlords where their hearts are, namely their wallet? Municipalities That's why we have this debate.... cannot publish black lists of landlords who are always breaking the law, because the College's protection of personal data prevents that. The SP advocates the protection of tenants who are undressed. The worst cottage milker should be able to get on a list by name and by name. That's how we protect the tenants. Does the Minister agree? Mr President, I will conclude and come to my last sentence. The position of tenants should be protected by ensuring sufficient housing, by preventing high rents from being demanded and by tackling house milkers harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. A good and reliable rental space is also important for students. The majority of tenants and landlords are just getting along well, but when landlords intimidate or discriminate against tenants, the VVD feels that the landlord should be dealt with hard. In recent years, we have ensured that municipalities have been given more tools to tackle crooked property owners. For example, municipalities can issue fines, close buildings and take over buildings. It is also possible to impose a professional ban. Can the Minister indicate how often municipalities use these instruments? Last autumn's report shows that in 2015 and 2016, municipalities only paid twenty fines. Municipalities have taken over one building and it is not known whether municipalities have applied for a professional ban at all. Is this the last one known to the Minister? Why are the instruments that municipalities have not or hardly used? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. What's she gonna do about this? I'm getting signals that fines are sometimes calculated by wrong landlords, so you don't follow the rules yet pays off. Thanks to the VVD and D66 there will be a more stringent approach. With this, landlords who often go wrong, at the Rent Committee earlier, will pay longer and more. What other instruments does the Minister see to deal with wrong landlords, such as fast-track law, higher fines and possibly economic offences? I would like a response from the Minister to these three proposals. If you now illegally sublet a social rental house of a few hundred euros in Amsterdam or Utrecht in, for example, four rooms, you can get €2,000 for that, while the maximum fine is now only €20,000. That's why today's VVD, together with the SP, is proposing just to take those profits away. That's possible if we're going to turn this into an economic crime. Mr. Chairman. Then there's something we've talked about a lot here in the Chamber. There are rental agents and websites that sometimes wrongly charge mediation fees to tenants. This was also the subject of a parliamentary motion tabled by my colleague Mr Kops. It is therefore clear that this is not allowed, but still I keep getting signals that rental agents still charge mediation fees to tenants. There are now standard Summer Letters and subpoenas online, allowing you to recover the amount. Why isn't this happening enough? What kind of thresholds do students experience here? I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr Koerhuis mentions a number of measures to combat house milkers. I think it would also help if we made it public about which people we're talking about. Several organizations argue for a blacklist of wrong house milkers. Does the VVD support that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u6	I think I can hear Mrs Voortman's contribution to this debate in a moment's time. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u7	This surprises me, because if there is one party that thinks that people who do anything wrong when they are on a benefit should immediately be severely punished, then it is the VVD. Now I ask: how does the VVD feel about dealing hard with bad house milkers and putting them on a blacklist so that everyone can get to know them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u8	We're all in favour of dealing hard with bad house milkers. I do not know if you have just heard the proposal that we are launching together with the SP today. We propose to take away the economic gains of house milkers instead of giving relatively low fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u9	You're finishing slowly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u10	I'm gonna round up slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u11	You have 15 seconds left on the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u12	Finally, Mr President. The final solution is to build more houses. There's a deficit of 200,000 houses now. We have to build 1 million houses in the next ten years. We now see it out here: if there is little supply and a lot of demand, prices go up and wrong landlords get a chance. I see that students are finding it increasingly difficult to find an affordable rental or store after their studies. That's why older students stay in the same place for longer, so new students can't go anywhere. The latter remain forced to live at home or agree to high rents for bad homes. That's what we need to do now. That's why we need to build, build, build now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you. Before you leave, Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u14	Those are rather firm lyrics of the VVD about house milkers and I think that is right. I hesitated a bit to do it, but we are now 99 days, tomorrow 100 days, waiting for the investigation into Mr Van Haga, according to NRC research. He's suspected of being a house milker, and he's a MP. I ask the VVD Group: when will that be clarified?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u15	You're playing the man. I like to play ball. I would like to talk about the proposals that we are making today to tackle house milkers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u16	I don't think that's right. It's very serious when you're a house milker. That is also what Mr Koerhuis is saying. Integrity is very important to the VVD. Prime Minister Rutte has pointed that out time and time again. I don't think it's very strange that after 100 days you ask once: when do you expect the outcome of the investigation? That's all I'm asking you. I'd like some clarity about that. The municipal elections have been. You can't keep putting that off for weeks, months before you do, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u17	I've already answered this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u18	No, the question was: when will that be clarified?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u19	I've indicated that I don't want to play on the person but on the ball. I'm facing a tough approach to house milkers. We are making very good proposals for this together with the SP. I am happy to discuss this with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mr Nijboer, I would ask you not to repeat your question again, because I fear you will not receive the answer you hope to receive. And I prefer to do interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u21	But I think it is a relevant question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u22	Yeah, that's obvious. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u23	Mr Koerhuis proposes to apply an economic crime at the moment when house milkers abuse the situation. Does he agree with me that it would be better to check first whether the current enforcement of abuses in these house milkers is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u24	I think Mr Ronnes and I are almost in agreement. I hear him using the word "first." I say "and-and." I have also asked the Minister whether these enforcement instruments are being used enough and whether he wants to commit an economic crime of illegal sublet and illegal room rental.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u25	But if enforcement is not done enough, can it not be that your proposal is disproportionate? Isn't it better to pay attention to enforcement by municipalities first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u26	No, I don't think so. The problem out here is very big. That's what I reported. There's a huge shortage of houses. I really think that an en-en policy is necessary and not whether or not, and that we should not let it slip, as Mr Ronnes proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u27	It was, of course, a perfectly correct question from Mr Nijboer. Too bad there was no answer, because that answer is important. It says something about the story of Mr Koerhuis and how credible that is. Let me explain. In the run-up to the elections, the VVD campaigned with "affordable homes." What a brutality, because in recent years the prices of houses and rents have risen dramatically under VVD-regime. So what hypocrisy! And now Mr Koerhuis is doing it again. He is in favour of dealing with house milkers, while such a person is in his own group. So how credible is Mr Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u28	Let us not forget, and then I look in particular at the PVV, that we all took the Netherlands out of the crisis. And that, unfortunately, construction production has fallen somewhat, because we were in that crisis. That we got out is not because of you, but despite you. You ran away in 2012 for responsibilities. We had to take the Netherlands out of the crisis and you ran away. Then let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u29	And then the rents of the social housing have increased by 17%. Thank you very much, VVD! In other words, you're a hypocrite. But let me come back to the real issue: what is the situation with your fellow cottage milker in your group? Just answer that. The elections are now over. You don't have to talk nicely anymore, you don't have to tell any more political lies. Just admit it! How's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u30	The real answer is that you call from the sidelines and walk away from your responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I call Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Huisjemelders actually thinks everyone is very bad and a big problem. A number of colleagues, including myself, have been interviewed by Sikkom in Groningen, where really poignant examples came along: people are threatened, threatened with life. This happens everywhere in the Netherlands, but also in Groningen. People get dropped off and dare not even report their complaints, and when they report them, they get bullied away. And in fact, the rule of law is at stake with its certainty. I ask the Minister what she will do about it. You can't tolerate that, can you? And then, of course, we can ask, whatever the Minister will ask: what happens next? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there was an item in the NOS Journal based on news coverage in De Groene Amsterdammer. A debate has been requested on this subject, but I understand that colleagues wanted to say something about it today; and I certainly wanted to do so. That item shows that there's a lot of discrimination when you're looking for a place to live. My name is Henk Nijboer and so I have a much better chance of getting a home if I register with a real estate agent or landlord than Ahmed, Yousouf or someone with a different foreign name. That's really bad, Mr President! This is also forbidden by law; living is a fundamental right. We're all entitled to that. If 46 out of 50 brokers who have been called cooperate to ward off immigrants, then the Minister of the Interior and Home Affairs, who must stand before the rule of law, must act very hard. The Minister himself has used the good terms: horrible, it cannot be done, and the sector must do something about it. But isn't it more necessary? Shouldn't you also, as a government, if there is so much discrimination, check whether that happens? And when that happens, we have to punish and sanction. We see it on the labour market. If you apply, you won't be accepted if you have another name on your letter. Oh, that's a real goddamn game. But that also applies to living. That has penetrated deeply into our society. And that doesn't go away by itself, nor does it go away with trade agreements. So shouldn't we be taking a much tougher stance on this so that we can eradicate this behavior? Mr. Chairman. My third and final point concerns the tax approach of house milkers. As you all know, I am also a financial spokesman. I took a look at what makes one in five properties sold in Maastricht an investment property, and in Groningen, Enschede and Amsterdam more than one in ten. This, like many things in the Netherlands, also has a fiscal reason. With low interest rates, it's just very attractive to buy up buildings, move around, put them on the market for towering rents and make a profit. You pay relatively little tax on it. I would like to ask the Minister, together with the Secretary of State for Finance, to see if we can tackle the tax advantage that investors in real estate, who have house milkers, and use that money to tackle the biggest problem of the housing market, affordable rents. The cut on the rent supplement is at the top of the list of things to get off the table for me. The Minister knows that, too. It's easy to do that when we're charging that tax. Let's take a look at that and make that possible. I think that would be a very good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Students often find it difficult to get a place to live, and cottage milkers take advantage of it by asking for towering rents for a few square meters. And that's when students are anything but broad. Research by Huurteam Utrecht has shown that in 88% of the cases the rental price of the student room does not correspond to its quality. 88%! Too high rents are therefore more rule than exception. In her letter, the Minister mentions as a possible solution the recent modernisation of the Rent Committee. Hardleer landlords, the so-called multiplegers, are faced with an ever higher fee. The Minister expects that this will make it more unattractive for them to ask for too high rents. What does the Minister base this expectation on? I am asking this question because it has been shown in practice that landlords are just laughing at fines, at higher fees. It is a question of fines that are completely indistinguishable from the too high rents they catch. In other words, it pays off. I ask the Minister, what is the practical situation with regard to the so-called preventive effect of its measures? Moreover, it has been found that students are afraid, afraid of the landlord, afraid of losing their room. Not rarely are they intimidated or threatened by the landlord, with the result that in the long term they do not dare to go to a Rent Commission at all. The crucial question here is: how is the Minister going to remove that threshold and ensure that tenants dare to go to the Rent Committee unimpeded when they consider it necessary? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The municipality may intervene under administrative law in the event of over-inhabitation, poor fire safety or unauthorised chambering. The question then is: does this happen in practice? What is the status of enforcement on this issue? In fact, Professor Vols, Professor of Public Order Law, concludes from his research that local authorities are not making enough use of opportunities to deal with house milkers. A quote: "We see in practice that mayors and aldermen still have too little knowledge of the instruments available to get to work on this." In the meantime, however, the municipalities in their letter indicate that they want more measures. In view of the Minister's reaction to this, however, they will not be forthcoming. But what about now? Do municipalities really have too few powers to intervene? Or is it a question of underutilizing their powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u35	Mrs. Beckerman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u36	Congratulations on your speech; very good. I couldn't agree more. It is true that bad house milkers are now really getting slaps of fines. Actually, they're not fines; they're fees. In December I therefore tabled a motion, the motion for a resolution by Mr Beckerman and others on asking for too high rents to be fined as an economic offence. I regret that the PVV voted against. But you have just heard from Mr Koerhuis that we are going to retable this motion together. Are you going to vote in favour this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u37	Of course, I cannot say whether we are going to vote in favour of a proposal that we have not yet seen. But we're going to look at it very seriously. I can tell Mrs Beckerman immediately: it does sound very good, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u38	Well, thank you. Then it was a mistake that you didn't go for it last time. That is a pity for the interim period. But I hope you want to take a serious look at this proposal, because we really need to hit those cottage milkers where their heart is, namely in their wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u39	I happen to have two other motions from Mrs Beckerman in my preparation, but that motion does not happen to be. I'm gonna take a look at it. It's as simple as that. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u40	Thank you. I call Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u41	Mr. Chairman. The aldermen of the student cities have written a letter of fire about the approach of cottage milkers. The Minister wrote back a letter on 11 December. We have also discussed this issue in the course of the budget debate. The central question remains whether there should be more sanctions against house milkers. With D66, we already tabled a motion in the budget procedure asking the Minister to talk to the aldermen about additional powers for municipalities to act against house milkers. How's that going? Has the conversation been over? And what was the final conclusion? Of course, landlords who systematically charge too high a rent should not maintain and even intimidate and threaten to be dealt with. Does the Minister have any signals that municipalities can't carry out their controlling tasks in this area or that the state's attorney's office doesn't have matters to deal with? Earlier, the Municipality of Utrecht contacted the Dutch Data Protection Authority about the use of naming-and-shaming. Can naming-and-shaming be used more to bet against house milkers who make a jar of it? At municipal level, there are many major challenges in the area of student accommodation. This pressure has increased due to the large increase in the number of international students and their need for housing. The housing of international students should be better placed on the municipal agenda and universities and colleges should be co-responsible for this housing. While new students are being recruited, the supply of housing in the Netherlands is not growing. We foresee that in the coming academic year in the peak of arrival of international students, around August/September, there will again be a shortage of accommodation for international students. Are we gonna get ready for that peak? Or are we gonna let it happen again? Over the past year, some cities have applied an emergency grip by, for example, preparing vacant azc's as temporary shelter for international students. Does the Minister already have an adequate picture of the ambitions of the institutions? The letter the minister wrote to the aldermen states that it is very important that tenants do not feel prevented from relying on rent regulations. The Minister is also prepared to discuss this issue and to consider whether and, if so, what options are desirable and feasible on top of the existing possibilities. What came out of that meeting? And where are there any bottlenecks? In the case of over-inhabitation, poor fire safety, unauthorized accommodation, etc., the municipality can intervene under the Housing Act, the zoning plan or the Building Order. We see room as a separate problem, which seems to be getting bigger and bigger. Also in ordinary residential areas, outside of the often historic city centers, ordinary terraced houses are bought by smart huisjemelders, who room such a house up to about five student rooms. That's what drives families and middle class out of town. To counter this, the CDA has previously launched the Housing Manifesto. Several proposals and suggestions are now being made. Finally, I would like to comment on the new topicality, which was also discussed this afternoon in the order of business. Of course, discrimination on the housing market cannot be allowed either. We are looking forward to the Minister's response to the earlier comments on this issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u42	There is another interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u43	I think that the CDA has a really good position on house milkers. Is the CDA also willing to consider how to make it tax unattractive to do so? There are several possibilities for this. I am not pinning you on "transfer tax must necessarily go to 6%" or "box 3 must be adjusted sister and so," but would you at least look in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u44	As you know, we have included in our coalition agreement that we want to tax exploitation revenues in box 3 on the current rate. This would mean that this group would also be taxed as it earns revenue from the box 3 assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u45	Yeah, that goes for people who have second homes, but you also have pawnshops who don't have second homes. For example, they start a business and have a lot of tax advantages. As is the case, a lot of tax constructions are used. Is the CDA willing to look into that? In addition to the box 3 measure that is already in the coalition agreement and which I welcome, would the CDA like to take a tax look at those real estate investors, who are moving around and asking for sky-high rents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u46	We want to see how we can combat this abuse. We must be careful not to make all kinds of disproportionate arrangements, including in tax legislation. You know better than anyone how difficult it is to incorporate measures. I would like to pay attention to turning all small buttons that ultimately produce a lot of work and make little progress. So we'd like to look at it, but we don't want to anticipate the final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mr Ronnes mentioned discrimination in the housing market. Meanwhile, status holders still take precedence over Dutch in the allocation of a social housing. The Dutch are discriminated against. Does Mr Ronnes also think that discrimination against the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mr. Kops, I'd like you to take a good look at things. It is not true what you say, because municipalities can change the policy and ensure that status holders are not given priority. It is therefore up to the local situation to decide whether to give priority to status holders or not. We have agreed in this country that we do not discriminate, not even in the case of yesterday's press release. That's what I stand for. I don't think that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u49	We have, of course, had that discussion before. Indeed, it is currently up to the municipalities to give priority or not to the status holder. But in practice, municipalities do that, because they have to meet the targets. They're supposed to be housing these people somewhere. That's their job. So in practice, status holders are still given priority. But if I can tell from what Mr Ronnes said that he actually thinks that is undesirable, is he prepared to support a proposal from the PVV to make the status holders no longer possible at all, in other words, to ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u50	I think you're jumping to a different conclusion than what I said. My answer, I think, is clear from what I have just said to your first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u52	Thank you, Mr President. That the housing market is locked, everyone will agree on that tonight. It makes it even more serious that unsatisfied house milkers take advantage of this situation and that vulnerable people suffer from it. Tonight we're specifically talking about students here. At the end of last year, the aldermen of the student cities rightly transferred their concerns to the minister. In response to the letter of fire, the Minister indicated that he was prepared to discuss it with the aldermen. What was the outcome of this meeting? And what concrete actions have been taken so far? What can the minister offer the municipalities? As long as there is still a shortage of homes, house milkers will continue to try to enrich themselves over the backs of vulnerable students. In the Minister's letter to the aldermen, the Minister stressed the freedom of contract. However, the question is whether there are equal parties and whether students really have a choice. I honestly don't think so. I can hardly imagine that the Minister is of the opinion that students are in a position to choose between different affordable rooms. Would it not therefore be desirable to look at a maximum room price? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, measures must be taken as soon as possible to tackle house milkers. Mr Nijboer proposed abolishing the tax advantages for house milkers. That also seems to be a good idea. I look forward to the Minister's response to this proposal. There are other measures to be considered which the municipalities concerned are looking at, but in which they run into national regulations. I am thinking, for example, of a licensing system for room rental, of the possibility for municipalities to impose administrative fines if house milkers go wrong and make public black lists of house milkers who go wrong several times. I would like to hear from the Minister what possibilities municipalities currently have in concrete terms with regard to these measures and what national regulations should be adapted to make these resources more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u53	You have an interruption from Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mrs. Voortman is talking about a maximum room price. In all naivety, I think: we have a housing rating system with points, don't we? I was wondering what exactly you mean by this, because you got over this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u55	What I mean by that is a price that makes sure that can't be crossed. That's what I mean by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u56	How does that differ from the system we have? That has a maximum price related to housing valuation points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u57	Maybe I should come back to this later. I understand that this point was also included in the Aldermen's letter. I have to be honest with you, I don't have it right now. I'll get that for you. I think that's better than saying something here. Mr. Chairman. From among others the National Student Union we understand that mainly foreign students often have no alternative and are almost forced to go with cottage milkers, especially as colleges and universities are increasingly committed to recruiting international students. Who directs the organisation of adequate housing for international students? It is clear that the house milkers need to be dealt with. One of the reasons why these cottage milkers can do anything is, of course, the fact that there is a huge shortage of student accommodation. At the end of last year, the Chamber adopted a motion from my colleague Özdil and SP-Room Member Futselaar to come up with a new covenant and action plan for student housing. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? Finally. GroenLinks is also shocked by the report that real estate agencies discriminate against people on the basis of their last name. That calls for action. I'd like to hear what the Minister's going to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u58	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The signal from the letter of fire sent by aldermen from student cities is loud and clear. They want to be able to deal with house milkers. Cabin milkers also have the attention of D66. We've got to be tough on them. That is why we have also argued in favour of increasing the fee, including with the VVD. We are pleased that this motion has been adopted and that the fees increase and are added together more quickly, so that house milkers do not get away with it so easily. Following another motion, together with the National Student Union and the aldermen, it is now being examined whether measures can also be imposed by municipalities on house milkers, for example fines. We are in favour of these fines and hope that the discussions on them will be fruitful. We'd like to hear from the Minister about that. I have a supplement to that. We saw that the Utrecht City Council would like municipal permits to be granted only if the landlord adheres to the points system. The Utrecht College indicated that it cannot maintain this. Does the Minister recognize this? Can a municipality include in its own regulations the rule that the housing valuation system should be complied with and that the permit to rent rooms would otherwise be withdrawn? And if not, can the Minister investigate how we can make this possible? I would like to touch on the issue of discrimination. It is, of course, a very serious matter and I am therefore pleased that we are going to have a separate debate on this in which we can have a wide-ranging exchange of views. Otherwise we will hear from the Minister what she intends to do with it. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately there are also neat and neat landlords, but some of them we can rightly call a cottage milker. Municipalities must have the tools to tackle them hard and protect their tenants. We would like to hear it when the talks show that there is not enough possibility within the law and that the minister is coming to the Chamber, so that national politics can also take responsibility and we can deal with house milkers together with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u60	Thanks, that's what we're... Ah, Mr. Nijboer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u61	Mr. Chairman. I asked Mr Ronnes the same question about the speculators and investors who make the rooms so expensive and for whom it really is a paradise for tax purposes. Shouldn't we see if there's anything we can do about that? What is D66's position on this proposal from the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u62	It seems very good to me to try to tackle house milkers in all kinds of different ways, but the tricky thing about these proposals is of course that they do not so much distinguish between a house milker and a willing landlord with one, two or three properties that simply requires a reasonable price. At the moment, I am not quite clear as to what the consequences would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u63	I am not asking D66 at all to change the whole tax system today. I ask from D66 the opening, if you want the outstretched hand, to investigate how you could do that fiscally, without capturing on the results. I really think it's possible. I've been thinking about that, too. That is why I come forward with these proposals. It seems to me to be a good idea to look at that, because it really is a problem and it is also a tax problem. Is D66 willing to let the cabinet take a good look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u64	If there are measures that we need to examine to tackle these house milkers, then your proposals will probably come up. I always want to take a friendly look at them together with the financial and fiscal experts within the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u66	Then there's a question from Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u67	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Eijs rightly asked me what I meant by my question about the maximum rent, but now I can also pack it in an interruption in her direction. This is what I'm talking about. What does it mean if a landlord exceeds the maximum rental price? Is that a violation or are we saying that freedom of contract is more important? The Minister says the last in her letter. She says she thinks freedom of contract is very important. But there is an infringement here that should be dealt with. I would like to hear from Mrs Van Eijs what she thinks of this consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u68	In my opinion, landlords are bound by the law, at least by the law that ensures that we have to keep to the maximum rent that goes with the number of points. Therefore, a tenant can also go to the Rent Committee and enforce it. In that case, it seems to me that freedom of contract does not go ahead but that the Rent Committee can decide otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u69	Mr. Chairman. Then you'll say it's something you have to do individually, but doesn't it have a responsibility on the part of the government? Shouldn't you, as a government, say at such a point: this is an offence and we feel a party to it ourselves? Is it something between tenant and landlord or should you have a role in this as a government too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u70	I think there is always some freedom for the tenant to decide, for example, that he wants to pay more. Yeah, you can. I don't believe an apartment with golden cranes is in the housing valuation system. Of course, there is always the freedom to pay for those golden cranes. I do think that the tenant should have a very clear right to go to the Rent Committee and still enforce that lower rent. I also think that there should be a proper look at the thresholds that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u71	I wanted to help Mr. Nijboer a little bit. He asked: should we not take fiscal measures to counter the rise of buy-to-let, those investors? You rightly said that there are also very good landlords. I have another argument that I would like to share with you. The SP has had research conducted by researchers from the KU Leuven and the UVA. They say that all purchase prices go up because of the rise of buy-to-let and because investors very much outbid. So that's what's bothering everyone. If you increase the transfer tax on a second or third mortgage, you could make buy-to-let less attractive and buy-starters make it more likely. What do you think of that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u72	I'm just trying to see the consequences in a hurry. As D66 we also said that we would like more middle rent. A number of people buy up properties and make them neat middle rentals, so I don't always think it's something we should discourage. The tricky thing is that you want to distinguish between the wrong cottage milker and the legitimate landlord who offers a neat home. That could be a middle-rental house, for example. So I find it difficult to use a general fiscal instrument to punish everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u73	Well, I'm sorry about that. When we zoom out, we see that our housing market is very vulnerable because of the huge rise in prices. Economists are also warned about a next bubble. Many people suffer from this: tenants and buyers who no longer intervene. Shouldn't we consider the importance of the economy, the tenant and the starter? Shouldn't you say we're making it a little less attractive to do this, so we help a much larger group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u74	I'm really wondering if you're helping a larger group by making it more unattractive to rent out middle rentals, for example. I think that's a big objection. I agree with you that we must fight the bubble. Therefore, D66 is always very careful with all kinds of price-driven measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u75	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suspend for five minutes, then we continue with the first term of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A debate on a number of subjects. It started with the theme cottage milkers. It is, of course, about more, about concerns we have about certain practices in the housing markets. There was indeed a topicality to which the Chamber asked for a response today. It was given to the Chamber today. Let me start with that, also because of the current situation. The results of the research carried out by the Green Amsterdammer are worrying. I've called it sad. We have already discussed it at another time. As far as I am concerned, we are all fully opposed to discrimination. It is very good that we often talk about unwanted behaviour, especially when it comes to housing. I will deal with specific questions on this later. We also know that there are practices in the housing market that intimidate people, excluding people, where lies, trickery and deception take place, practices that prevent people from having a home. I am thinking, for example, of the unlawful calculation of double mediation costs, the direct application of harassment that we know about house milkers, the abuse of temporary contract forms, the long-term exclusion of people through the use of blacklists and, therefore, that discrimination. This does not fit a sector that is so important to society. We must work to put an end to this practice, which has now also come to light through publicity. Those practices need to stop, and I'm going to work for them. I can't do that alone. You can't do that from the Ministry alone. It will really have to be an approach from all the parties that play a role in this. In this respect, I find the initial reactions from industry organisations encouraging. They see a responsibility here and will take that responsibility. I'll continue the conversation with them and make agreements about good landlordship. There's a lot of ways to do that. It can be done through better information and it can be done through self-regulation in the sector itself. Instruments can be used such as the mystery guests. In other sectors and in other areas, we have applied this to discrimination more often. I would like to explore further possibilities and additional measures, including in the area of legislation and regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u78	I think it is right that the Minister should take a clear position and say that discrimination is not possible. I do have one more question. If this is going on, which is very serious, shouldn't the government actively track down where that is happening and sanction it? That's different than letting the industry do it itself. You just have to track it down as a government and say, "This is a really bad thing, we won't tolerate this in this country."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u79	I just said that, and that's what we say to each other. We won't tolerate that. We don't want that. I have said that it does not fit a sector that has such an important function. We are against that. I also say that it is not enough to speak out against us. I want measures, too. I believe that the sector itself has a great responsibility in this regard. I call them to that. I'll talk to them about that. This also applies to the municipalities, which of course do and see this. I believe that we have a very broad palette, and I would, if necessary, not like to exclude measures in the area of legislation and regulation. Before I suggest this to you, we must first have this kind of conversation and take this kind of steps. In dealing with discrimination in general but also specifically in the housing market, we need to ensure that people who are victims of it know where to go and where to report, so that the government can indeed then take action where to sanction it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u80	It is simply a fundamental right, because Article 1 of the Constitution says: no discrimination. That article is under pressure. We know that already from the labour market, for example, and there are quite rightly many debates about this. But now it also plays in living space. Shouldn't you be doing the government's own kind of research like that of De Groene Amsterdammer and the NOS? If you try and it comes out that brokers say "if you have a last name that's not right, then," you just have to impose sanctions on it. You then have to close those offices or otherwise take action; put them in prison or give them whatever punishment is on it. Apart from agreeing with the industry that they don't do that anymore, you just have to do it yourself, so that it's just really quick to end these practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u81	I think we are very much in agreement on the objective. I didn't call it "sorry" for nothing, also in view of the numbers mentioned in De Groene Amsterdammer. De Groene Amsterdammer has now done that research for us. This has led to worrying numbers, because a very limited number of brokers found that they did not do so. It means that we have to take much further action and actually go down the whole ladder. I also hope that in some cases this may even lead to the kind of sanctions that Mr Nijboer refers to. We must therefore use all the instruments available for this purpose and also explore what more can be done. But I think it is most important that the sector itself, encouraged by me, should take additional steps, because it is not acceptable that people who have a different first or last name are apparently lagging behind in the housing market. I would also like to explore further whether we want to use other instruments. Mr. Chairman. The cottage milkers are the first reason for this debate. There's scarcity in the housing market and malicious landlords, let's just call them "can take advantage of that scarcity." There are several examples of unwanted behavior of landlords. That can be about too little or nothing to do with the quality, so leave maintenance deficiencies in place. It could be about asking for too high a rent or about intimidation and threat. Whatever happens is actually not accessible to the tenant or make the corridor to the Rent Committee more difficult. The approach to counter this kind of behavior of landlords actually consists of a diverse palette. It starts with expanding the offer anyway. The offer of student accommodation needs to be increased. There are many cities that are working on this, but what I have already said is that scarcity partly creates these practices. That does not make any sense at all, but tackling the scarcity is certainly a good step. The Bill of Rent Commission I discussed with your Chamber provides that landlords who are repeatedly unsuccessful in certain rental price disputes will have to pay higher fees. That's a good step! There is also an information campaign to raise young people's awareness of their rental rights. It's also about the tenants knowing what rights they have. I intend to repeat this campaign. With the field I am talking about how the instruments work in practice and what improvements and what additions are needed. In doing so, I give substance to the Van Eijs/Ronnes motion on the approach of house milkers. In the conversation I'm having with the field, it's also about identifying and tackling crooked landlords. A follow-up meeting will be held before the summer. I would like to examine further the instruments and the new instruments that emerge in this process and see whether there should also be a legislative amendment, for example the introduction of additional conditions for a room rental permit or the introduction of a hallmark for good landlordship. In the discussion with the municipalities it will then be said that they will naturally have to maintain in these areas. Those conversations go well on their own. In the conversation with the municipalities it appears that the opportunities lie mainly there, locally and on the spot. That's where it has to be. For example, if there is intimidating behavior of landlords, then the police are the first to resolve this. If there are disputes about the amount of the rent, the Rent Committee is the first to do something about this. The municipalities are also best able to deal with these cottages locally via municipal enforcement, a housing brigade or a rental team. They are best able to do this, also because they know these cottage milkers. They're so to speak with their noses on top. I just started by saying that tackling the scarcity should be done locally. The palette also includes the setting of conditions to the conversion permit in case of chambering, fines, etc. They all have to do that, and that is what we are talking about in the conversation with the cities that are currently going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u82	Good to hear those conversations are going on. Only, we've been four, five months and we're running out of patience. So my question to the Minister is to really speed it up and make sure that we are really going to tackle this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u83	I can hear your impatience. I share the impatience. The cities are impatient, too. But the conversation's started. It started with the letter. You have also called on me to take this forward. The meeting's on. There is a follow-up agreement and it will result in a number of actions locally and a number of actions that we can do together. If I can improve that by means of legislation and regulations, I will. The municipalities will then have to do their part, for example in enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u84	I'm glad to hear the Minister is in the middle of those talks. Perhaps I have a little more patience than Mr Ronnes, but hurry is not bad in this case, I think. The following surprised me. You indicated that you are considering whether a municipality can attach additional conditions to such a division permit or a room rental permit; I believe it is called per municipality differently. How is it that the municipality of Utrecht itself states: yes, city council, we do want this, but we cannot do this at all; we cannot maintain it, and this is not done by the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u85	Those are signals that often happen, sometimes end up and sometimes wrong. By better defining the problem with each other, municipalities sometimes find that they do have room within the existing laws and regulations. I know that from my Amsterdam practice. That may also be the case in this case. For this, it is necessary to take a close look at what exactly is going on and what municipalities can do. That's often more than they expected. If it is not possible, something must be done here in The Hague before the municipalities can get away with it. That is also part of this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u86	Perhaps it is therefore an idea to share with us but also with many more cities than just the student cities exactly what these instruments are. It has already been appointed by other colleagues: sometimes municipalities do not seem to be aware of or too little knowledge about the instruments they have and how they work. So perhaps the Minister can indicate that she will be able to return to the Chamber and communicate with it more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u87	I'd be happy to. Mrs Voortman just had a question about that. If I answer that question immediately, I might avoid her interruption; I don't know. I think that in some cases the municipalities can make better use of instruments they already have, as I said to Mrs Van Eijs. For example, municipalities can already include periodic penalty payments and fines in their licensing system and regulation. They can do that. Those tenants who do not comply with the rules of the licence should then receive the periodic penalty payments and fines. We are now, of course, on the route to the Environment Act. As far as conversion is concerned, there is an environmental permit for room rental. There's the housing permit requirement in the Housing Act. In part, we can talk about all these things together, with those cities to which we have also sent the letter, namely the cities where this is most pressing. But even if individual municipalities have a bottleneck, it is analysed: what they can do without us, within the municipal autonomy, and what we might be able to do from The Hague. The latter then caters to all the municipalities, but above all to these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u88	The Minister states that municipalities can do all they need, for example when it comes to administrative fines. Among others, that alderman in Utrecht is indeed advocating this. So the Minister says: this can be done. I think he'll be very happy about that. I am also pleased that the Minister states that she is prepared to make adjustments if something needs to be tackled nationally. But I missed a moment when she will inform us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u89	I made an appointment with the cities. Mrs Voortman is now going into Utrecht very specifically, but I wanted to answer in general. I should check to see if what she just outlined about Utrecht is exactly the same. But I've agreed with the cities that we'll have a meeting before the summer. Perhaps after that meeting, it would be a good time to inform the Chamber where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u90	I think that's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u91	Fine. Then I will continue to answer the questions, more or less in the order in which they were asked. Ms Beckerman began her contribution by suggesting a rental test, to which she also made more enforcement by municipalities. Tenants can go to the Rent Committee for an initial rental test. As I have just outlined, I am talking to the field about the whole range of instruments for dealing with house milkers. We need to know how that works in practice and what additions and improvements there are. I just said I'd like to get back to that before the summer. I think this belongs in that trajectory. Mrs Beckerman also had another question, which came back a few times afterwards, among others to Mr Nijboer and Mrs Voortman, namely the tax approach of house milkers. A few different suggestions were made, but the thought behind it was: can we not make it tax unattractive to purchase a second, third, et cetera house? Now, of course, I am not the person responsible for taxation. That is my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, but I doubt that fiscal measures will solve the problem directly. Those are not targeted measures, but would be generic measures, if I were to listen to you like that. For example, you would like to meet investors, but not every investor is a house milker and not every investor is a house milker. I'm actually much more looking for a targeted approach to the cottage milkers. That's exactly what this conversation with these local authorities is about. I have mentioned a number of instruments that the municipalities already have. Again, I don't see how you could focus a tax measure on this particular practice of house melting. Here, of course, lies the assumption that buy-to-let is not really good and that you would like to put an end to it altogether. I do not think it would be good if we no longer had private rental in the Netherlands. I think a lot of private rentals are fine. A lot of people who are just going to live together, you know them all, so they can take that first step on the housing market. There are just good landlords who apply neat prices and who do not behave like with all the wrongs we have just dealt with. That is why I am reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u92	I requested this debate in November. Back then there were many cities that wrote a fire letter and by now we know even more facts. We know how bad things are, how often tenants are intimidated and threatened and how often they get far too high rents. Let me give you one example, that of the Lutke Nieuwstraat in Groningen. That's a new complex. All the students there are told that they are going to rent an apartment, but it turns out to be a studio. They all have to go to the Rent Commission individually. Some of these students are seriously threatened and one student has even been chased by a hammer, so the police have work to do and the tenancy committee has work to do. Especially with a rental test like that, you could avoid that. If you simply say in advance "hey, there's so much to ask for," you'll save students a huge amount of misery. You save the police misery and you save the Rent Commission misery, because the number of cases has doubled in Groningen. That's why I think prevention is better than cure. I'm asking you to consider the possibilities of such a rental test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u93	Coming back on the rental test. I said that we are in the conversation with the cities, with the municipalities and with the aldermen inventorying everything, so this one actually belongs in that round. The practices described by Mrs Beckerman are, of course, undesirable. I am convinced that everything will be done about this in Groningen too, even now. I'm supposed to be here about threats and police that come into play. That is exactly the example that we are aware of is happening and which we really want to put an end to. Of course, we do not want to go behind the facts, but I fear that there are such examples. That is why, I think, you are all calling for a lot of attention to be paid to it. We agree on the objective. We inventory different options. I have heard Mrs Beckerman about the rental test, but I am in consultation with the municipalities. Above all, I want to come up with a palette of manageable instruments, preferably what they can actually do, but what may require some extras. If we need new instruments, I will not rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u94	I do hear nice promises, more or less between the rules, but it takes an incredible amount of time, doesn't it? The youth organisation of the SP, ROOD, I believe has had an "House milker of the year" election for eleven years now. This has been going on for so long. Of course, consultation is good, but we would really like to speed up. We hope that if we table a motion on it later, you will be positive about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u95	I await Mrs Beckerman's motion, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u96	If you take fiscal measures, of course you are not at once rid of all house milkers. However, I would ask the Minister to go into more detail about the analysis that, as in Amstelveen, The Hague, Groningen and Enschede, one in ten premises is bought by investors and almost one in five in Maastricht, there is also a fiscal cause for this. There really is a generic problem. The proposal that I am making does indeed tackle house milkers not only in the form of "b" but in fact it is the ultimate start-up measure. Read Mathijs Bouman today in the FD, who happened to write the same kind of article. Because who can't buy these houses anymore because these investors are pushing up all these prices? Those are the starters, which D66 and this minister always have such a warm heart for. So there's something really wrong. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u97	There is a very tight housing market. That's just a fact. It is very difficult to find something in a number of cities in the Netherlands, even for starters. I also think it is true that one in ten is now the current ratio. I do not dispute these figures; I do not have them in a report or anything. There is also more being built and in itself I have no clue that starters do not... Whatever's sold goes to starters, too. But the fact is that there are investors in it too. I do say, and I do not hear Mr Nijboer say anything else, that that does not mean that everyone invests, also because the interest rate is low. Of course, it also has to do with that. That is not the case. That was my response to the proposal to allow this to go through taxation. That is not a targeted instrument. You focus on investors. Not every investor has the intention of being a house milker. A lot of investors are just neat private landlords. It's just a place where people want to live, too. So that's my reasoning. I have also heard Mr Nijboer's reasoning. I do not want to refer everything to my colleague in Finance, but I predict that the Secretary of State for Finance will always have difficulty adding a specific target group to the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u98	It is also a generic measure. Because what I see happening is that investors are increasingly, and much more than in the past, buying up the cities, making it impossible for start-ups and increasing prices. And when I look at what they're actually paying, I get it. Because it's just tax-wise very attractive. Then I think: now we are going to look for a measure to make that reasonable and to help the starters. And you're gonna take house milkers with it, of course. Of course. And of course other measures are needed, such as higher penalties. In it the VVD works together with the SP. Very good; I'd say "hold on." So this is not the solution to everything, but the Minister has to acknowledge that we have to do something, now that these investors buy twice as much, everyone is at risk and no one can buy a house anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u99	Sure, we have a lot to do. Among other things, we must ensure that there are many more houses, many more homes are produced. That is, of course, a very important part of the approach. There's a cut. This has to be combated in many ways, in particular by ensuring that the supply is increased and that this is also an appropriate offer in the different segments, including in the middle rental segment. At the same time, we must combat the abuses that we really do not want. That is why I am looking with these municipalities, including at your request, to see if they have sufficient instruments to counter this. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to move on. Let's see... It may get a little messy, but I think I can finally answer all the questions. Mr Koerhuis of the VVD asked me to indicate how often municipalities actually use instruments like fines and such. We have the impression that the administrative fine in the Housing Act is still little used. That is the fine imposed on the Building Decision, i.e. fire safety, decay and that sort of thing. That fine isn't so well known. My observation now is that municipalities need time to implement this instrument properly. The larger municipalities use the takeover as a stick behind the door. It turns out that it is often enough to threaten it. The administrative penalty in the Housing Act is very much applied. The municipalities are well aware of this. That is the type of fine that can be used, for example, in chambering. All this, this whole palette of sticks behind the door that you actually hit at some point, is the subject of conversation with the domes and with the municipalities. Mr Koerhuis also asked which other instruments are available. That's what I was saying; that's what I'm talking about. I have just said that it is a broad inventory, so I also take suggestions from the Chamber with that, of course. One of the issues that was raised today is that you can also apply conditions to the permit granted by municipalities for room rental. Mr Koerhuis also asked why there is no use of Summation letters and double mediation costs, and whether students experience thresholds in them. The reason why students do not do so, why they do not send summons letters or subpoenas, is most likely the same as why they do not so easily go to the Rent Committee, namely not knowing about the possibilities of regulation and the possibilities to act, and not acting against the landlord because it is difficult to find another home. Here too it is important, firstly, for the people to know by means of information what can be done and, secondly, for it to be built and built up, but Mr Koerhuis certainly agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u100	Before you proceed, Mr Ronnes has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u101	I will go into the issue of enforcement for a moment. The Minister states that the large cities do apply enforcement under the Housing Act. Then how come we're still running into so many problems? If that enforcement was in order, shouldn't the situation really be as it is now, where we get so many signals that it's wrong with the cottage milkers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u102	Yes, I understand Mr Ronnes' reasoning. I'll include that in the conversations with the municipalities. It is being applied a lot, but apparently it is happening even more and the question is how to reverse it, so that the fines are going to have the desired effect and there are also fewer abuses. But the point is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u103	The Minister addressed my question as to whether enforcement instruments might not be used enough. I can see from her answer that some are indeed being used too little, but my question was also: what is the Minister going to do about this? I hear a lot about information campaigns among students. That is important, and that is what is happening, I understand, and there is a second campaign coming. But maybe there is also a need for a campaign among municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u104	I think it is indeed important to bring this to the attention of municipalities. That is what has happened, in the consultation that is going on with all those municipalities that have actually called the bell themselves. You might call that a campaign, but I am doing so mainly by bringing this to their attention in the consultation that has been organised and is now being conducted. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u105	Let us do it wider and call it a campaign and bring this to the attention of all 400 municipalities, I would say. The Minister also raised the issue of conciliation costs, on which Mr Kops has tabled a motion. I had also asked what the Minister is doing to deal with these conciliation costs and whether we should act harder on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u106	Yes. I shall come back to that in a moment, if Mr Koerhuis agrees. Maybe I can say on that campaign that I assume that Mr Koerhuis does not mean that we are using an expensive marketing campaign towards the municipalities, but that we are bringing it to their attention. Of course, I am willing to do so not only with the people with whom we are sitting at the table because of their specific problems, but also to ask extra attention, for example, through the VNG, which seems to me to be the appropriate channel for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u107	Yes, I understand. With students you may need a public campaign, but you yourself have very good channels towards our 400 municipalities, as Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u108	Sure. There's about 400 of them. A question from Mr Koerhuis.... others have asked questions about it... was it possible to turn housing fraud into an economic crime? I think that's hard. It is a rental agreement, a private contract between a tenant and a landlord, and it is based on freedom of contract. However, housing fraud is about tenants and not about landlords. The Law on Economic Crimes, known as the WED, is intended for cases where there is, among other things, a threat to the quality of life or to health or safety. This does not fit in with the current law, so it should require a system change. But that would also have a different effect. Sub-contracting should then also be prohibited, and the question is whether this is desirable. The question is also whether it is necessary. I believe that in the current system, we have sufficient opportunities for the landlord to prevent house fraud, such as a fine clause in the rental agreement. The tenant will then be liable for a fine if he fails to comply with the lease. You can agree the amount of the fine yourself in the agreement. The landlord may also claim compensation from a tenant in respect of the profits received by the tenant by the illegal sub-rent. So the answer to the question is: I do not think this is necessary or possible on the basis of the current legislation. Some of the spokesmen have asked whether a list of names, a blacklist or naming-and-shaming... there are different terms for used............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think as a government you should be reluctant to publish names, personal data, etc. That's always tricky. It is true that the rulings of the Rent Committee are simply public. It may also be very good that tenant organisations see opportunities in this. I see Mrs. Beckerman walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u109	I think that's a bit of a shame. During the whole debate, the Minister says almost every proposal we make: I'm going to discuss it with the municipalities, the municipalities have to do it, the municipalities have to do it. This is precisely a proposal that the municipalities make to protect the tenants, and now it can't. Wouldn't the minister still want to look at that, because it's really in the interests of the tenants that they know which landlords have often crossed the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u110	My reluctance lies in the question of whether the government should do so, i.e. the municipality or the government. I also said that if the Rent Committee makes a ruling, that's public information. So, of course, organizations can do things with that. But as a government, I think you should be cautious. If the municipalities say that they think that in the whole palette of what they consider promising or what they still lack is an important instrument, I haven't heard that from them in that way, then it will come back in the next round, but I don't expect that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u111	Yeah, well. I find that disappointing. You also know that these students are not going to google all those statements from the Rent Committee. Then you have to stop by and watch them all while there's just crunches and people are looking for a room. Just such a black list can make that very clear and clear at a glance. I think I am asking the same question twice now, but I think this is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u112	I have made that quite clear, and Mrs Beckerman has heard my view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u113	Mrs Van Eijs also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u114	Mr President, perhaps some kind of hand-out. D66 has previously asked to offer the dates of the rulings of the Rent Committee in such a way that they can act as open data, which, for example, makes it very easy for the House Union or the LSVb to create a blacklist, an app or so on. Maybe that could bring the parties together. Then the government does not have to produce such a blacklist, but it does ensure that the data that are already public are easily accessible and usable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u115	I assume that the parties with whom we do this together will also be listening to this evening and have heard this suggestion. Then I will be addressing a number of questions from the PVV Group. We have, of course, had the debate here about the Rent Committee and the change that leads to asking for higher fees for many users. My expectation is that we have already exchanged this with each other at that time, and that this multi-user regime will apply to precisely the disputes that are easy to avoid. It is therefore easy for the landlord to avoid costs. They can prevent them from getting that higher fee, so there is definitely an incentive for the landlord to move in the right direction. That's what my expectation is based on. Mr Kops also asked how the Minister intends to remove the threshold so that tenants do not go to the Rent Committee. I've already said something about that. One of the things we're investigating right now is an ex-officio course to the Rent Commission. The tenant doesn't have to use that at all. Other alternatives we are now inventorying. Of course, it should be about things that make intimidation even more ineffective for tenants not to report to the Rent Committee. That's a search going on. He also asked whether municipalities had too few instruments or whether they were underutilising the existing instruments. We've just exchanged a few things about that. It's both true. They have instruments. I just mentioned a whole list in an interrupting debate. We're inventorying the additions. I am also prepared to provide additional instruments if this round proves necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u116	If I understood the Minister correctly, she was talking about alternatives to facilitate the passage to the Rent Commission for tenants. When can we expect anything from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u117	It might be good to try to link that with the other commitments I have made. I said that before the summer. Yeah? I have now reached Mr Ronnes. Does the Minister have any signals that the municipality can carry out its controlling task or not, is just as briefly his question. The municipalities have financial resources for enforcement, which are, of course, always limited. As I have just tried to describe, the search is about using existing resources, possibly supplementing or improving legislation and regulations, and then asking the municipalities to keep them on their side, using existing instruments and possibly new tools. That's the way it works; it's gotta be running around. The municipalities will have to maintain, otherwise they will not. In the conversations, that's actually going well. Mr Ronnes also had a question about taking-and-shaming. We just talked about that. The CDA also had a question about the educational institutions. The insight into the numbers of students and the rooms needed really needs to be obtained locally. My experience is that this is happening and that universities and other educational institutions have a very good idea of how many new students will come after them in the new academic year. There is also another debate on internationalisation, especially with my colleague, I think. That's what the domes are doing. That's what the Ministry of OCW is doing. That has a relationship with that, because it is about Dutch and international students. I intend to send a letter at the beginning of May to the cities of knowledge, as they are called, and to the educational institutions to ensure that they sit together in good time, before the start of the new academic year, to see if they expect additional measures to be needed, as they did in some cases last academic year. In this context, Mrs Voortman also had a question. She asked about the implementation of a motion on student housing. It actually sees the same thing, namely the conversation that had to be held with the various institutions. Working together with educational institutions, dormitories and municipalities to ensure that they know in time what is coming to them: to have the conversation, to prepare the plans, to build, to provide enough rooms, to provide information to the students who are coming and to monitor how things are going in practice, because it is always annoying when you find out in October that there are still a number of students wandering around that seemingly were overlooked. We're really trying to do that right up front. The motion will therefore be put into effect. Mrs Voortman also asked whether it would be desirable to look at a maximum room price. There is now, of course, a system to determine the maximum rental price. That's the housing valuation system. This also includes a separate point count for independent living spaces. I want to see how we can improve the corridor to the Rent Committee, because that could also help with this. Finally, Mrs Voortman asked about tackling discrimination. I have already said a few things about this in my introduction. I think it is extremely important that we do something about this. I am afraid that confidence in the rental sector is becoming less and less caused by such behaviour and one problem after another. That's really annoying. This is a sector that is so essential that we cannot actually lose confidence there. It is therefore necessary to put an end to these behaviours. That is why I call on all parties that can contribute to this. Hence the short-term conversation, as I announced in my letter. This includes experimenting with mystery guests and so on. But above all, we need to make it clear to those landlords that this is not possible and that tenants point out their rights and obligations as best they can. This will therefore be high on the agenda during the discussions I am going to have with the industry organisations. Madam President. Finally, there was a question from Mrs Van Eijs. I believe that I have answered all her other questions in response to previous speakers. Mrs Van Eijs asked whether municipalities themselves could include in a local regulation that they could withdraw the permit for room rental. Municipalities may withdraw permits issued under the Housing Act. A number of conditions must, of course, be met for this. If the conditions of a permit are not met, you can withdraw the permit. If the licence has been granted on the basis of incorrect information, which the landlord has thus provided, it can also. Or if the permit is not used. What is more difficult is that this was somewhat in line with Mrs Van Eijs' question, which is a link to the housing valuation system, because that is where the freedom of contract comes back in. So I would like to look even further at that if it were necessary, but it will require a little more research to do so. I could promise Mrs Van Eijs that in the letter, which I am going to send before the summer on the basis of the inventory and the agreements with the municipalities, I will return to this with information on what that research has produced. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u118	Thank you very much. We shall then proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber. Mrs Beckerman has the floor. You all have one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many tenants do not quickly make their way to the Rent Commission to obtain their right at too high a rent because they fear losing their (temporary) living space or even being intimidated by the landlord;]] [[invites the Government to introduce a rental test, which allows a house or room to be rented only if prior to the new rental on the basis of the points count it is binding on which rent can be requested and if there are no serious defects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a blacklist of house milkers allows tenants to be warned in advance of crooked landlords;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility for municipalities to publish a blacklist of demonstrable house milkers in order to protect tenants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tenants are sometimes severely intimidated by a landlord and sometimes have high costs when they submit the case to a court and the trial takes a long time;]] [[calls on the government to consider how to set up a national fund to support tenants in court cases against house milkers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-335]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Voortman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-336]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u120	Yeah, I'll be in time. And Mr Koerhuis will table another motion on behalf of both of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u121	Yes, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Now to the motion by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman to label housing fraud as an economic offence. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that illegal sub- and room rental cannot be condemned as an economic offence;]] [[noting that housing fraud can make huge profits and that an administrative fine can be calculated;]] [[considers that this requires a tough approach, such as taking away the illegally made profits;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for residential fraud to be condemned as an economic offence, so that the profits of illegal sub- and chamber rentals can be taken away, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u124	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas house milkers and real estate investors make it impossible to live affordable in cities;]] [[Whereas cottage milkers benefit from a tax regime which is very favourable to them;]] [[calls on the government to identify ways of making milking houses less attractive for tax purposes, at least involving the transfer tax on second and multiple houses, as well as the taxation of real rental income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-339]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u126	Mr. Chairman. My second and final motion concerns discrimination in the housing market. That is a motion of principle. The PvdA believes that if this discrimination takes place, you cannot leave it to the market or interbranch organisations and calls, but should act as a government itself. That really cannot be left to the market and with some agreements can be cancelled. That's really serious. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is discrimination not only in finding work but also in finding a place to live;]] [[Whereas Article 1 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination and therefore requires public authorities to act against it;]] [[calls on the Government to fight discrimination more actively by actively detecting infringements and sanctioning infringements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Voortman and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-340]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u128	Thank you. Mr Kops waives a second term. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the second term, I have three small dots. We are, of course, very curious about the outcome of the consultation with the municipalities and what concrete proposals might come to the Chamber. I'm glad to hear that's probably gonna happen before the summer. A second point is that the Minister has promised to send a letter to cities where student problems are rather high. In any case, I am pleased with that signal, because that also means that people in the municipalities know that attention is paid to this in the Empire too. It still helps as a stick behind the door to get movement in the student cities in ensuring adequate housing, in this case especially for international students. Finally, I have a motion on enforcement. The Minister indicated that municipalities are actually already applying this correctly. It still sounds very strange to me that we still hear and see so many complaints and incidents. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of student housing and this increases housing;]] [[Whereas this increase in rooming creates a nuisance for existing residents;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) in order to ensure strict enforcement by the municipalities of regulations relating to chambers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u130	Thank you, Mr President. In reply to my question on the Özdil/Futselaar motion, the Minister indicated that she was in consultation with all kinds of different organisations. She also mentioned a number of measures. But the motion specifically calls for a covenant and a plan of action, such as the earlier National Action Plan Student Housing, which also included how many extra student rooms would be realized. So my question to the Minister is: is there going to be a follow-up to that action plan, in accordance with the motion adopted? And is there going to be a new student accommodation agreement? In addition, I had also prepared a motion on legislative changes that should make it possible for municipalities to take more action against house milkers. The Minister states that she is in consultation with aldermen. It also states that it does not exclude that it will indeed propose legislative changes if necessary. That is why I will not table a motion now, but I must say that a motion was adopted in December. There has been one consultation with aldermen so far. That happens a second time before the summer. It's all going very slowly. If the letter does not lead to concrete steps following that next consultation, then I may still feel obliged to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u131	Mrs Voortman, thank you very much. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs. No, she doesn't. I'm just gonna take a look at the Minister. Do you need a few minutes? You state that that is the case. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u132	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to answer one more question first. In fact, it was Mrs Voortman's comment on the implementation of a motion. From my answer, she had not made it clear whether there would be an action plan. That's what's gonna happen. There will be a new action plan. That is in line with the Futselaar/Özdil motion. It'll be there before the summer. It's supposed to be followed by a covenant. My answer wasn't complete, but hopefully it is now. Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have been tabled. I like to walk through it. The first motion by Mrs Beckerman, on item No. 335, it's about a rental test. That's what the debate was all about. The inventory is in progress. I would imagine that Mrs Beckerman might say: I would like to hold the motion until we can discuss the results in the Chamber. That would be one way of dealing with this motion. Otherwise, I have some substantive arguments, which I might be able to put back to Mrs Beckerman. But if she wants to hold the motion, we'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u134	The advice is to hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u135	I do have another solution. What if we did an investigation? So: asks the government to investigate whether it is possible. Then you can consult with the municipalities and come back to it later. Wouldn't that be a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u136	Certainly, and certainly if you could write it down in such a way that it is also clear that you call on me to involve that investigation in the discussions that are being held with the other parties, such as the municipalities and so on, so that it will automatically come back to the letter I promised you, which is the result of my round of talks. Then Mrs. Beckerman and I would agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u137	I'm hearing a new operative, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u138	Yeah, I think we're getting somewhere. I'll consult with the co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u139	Very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u140	Mr Koerhuis has a question on Mrs Beckerman's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u141	Yeah, it's like the Minister doesn't think it's going a little far. The tenant and the landlord agree a price. If the Minister says "not allowed" in advance, I think that's quite something. Perhaps the Minister would consider it after all? I think it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u142	Mrs. Beckerman and I agreed as well. Mr Koerhuis agreed with Mrs Beckerman on another point, but I will come to that. I run the conversation with municipalities and parties. If the parties put this forward as a desirable instrument, at least that is what Mrs Beckerman is now putting forward, then we must, of course, look at that instrument. Then we have to assess whether it is also a feasible and effective instrument. So by converting it to a research motion it says: getting involved in the conversation is that what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u143	Those other parties may find it desirable, but we can agree here that, at least from now on, it is not really desirable that if two people agree on a price, the Minister is going to say in advance that this cannot be done. I think it's a big deal. If someone is really dissatisfied, he can go to the Rent Committee, but the Minister now suggests that it is desirable that two people should not meet, I think that is quite something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u144	Once again, Mr Koerhuis thinks so. I have promised nothing more than that the subject will be involved in the conversation that is being held and that the desirability should be assessed afterwards. The second motion by Mrs Beckerman, on item No. 1, by Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian In fact, the motion deals with the possibility for municipalities to publish a blacklist. I just said that I find it very complicated for governments to draw up blacklists. There are opportunities to do so, but other parties should do so. In the conversation that is held with municipalities, municipalities are of course free to put it forward. If that were the case, we should, of course, consider why municipalities want that precisely, because I see the objections of privacy and so on in the front. So I don't feel like going along with this. The only thing I can say in advance is that, of course, I do not prevent municipalities from raising it themselves. Then I'll hear from them why they think it's a good instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u145	So the verdict on this motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u146	So the verdict on this motion has been dissuaded. The Beckerman/Nijboer motion in part No. 337 asks for a national fund for tenants to support them in court cases. I do not see any need for a fund at the moment. We've arranged for the fee increase in the Rent Commissions Act. We've been subsidising, so low registry fees. We also have the Housing Union, which can provide support to tenants. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the Koerhuis/Beckerman motion in part No. 338 the government is asked to make it possible for housing fraud to be condemned as an economic offence. We have exchanged some of that in the first period, and I have given a series of arguments why I do not think that can be done now. This requires a change in the system. So it's legally complicated. Moreover, the current system offers the landlord sufficient opportunities to combat residential fraud. But perhaps I may suggest, also because it is very special that Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman have found each other in this, that they are making the operative part a little broader and, for example, making it a research motion. Then I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u147	We're not gonna do that. We're just gonna leave the motion like this, especially since the Minister says we can. It's complicated, but the problem outside is also very big. Just because it's complicated to do something means it's possible. I would therefore ask the Minister to reconsider this. All in the light of the first motion, which, for bizarre reasons, received judgment in the Chamber, I would ask the Minister to consider giving this motion a Chamber of Justice as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u148	That's what I was gonna do. I merely asked the Chamber if it was possible to create something of space in the operative part and to allow the request to be preceded by a request for an inquiry. I am sorry that Mr Koerhuis is not very enthusiastic about this. I don't know if the other petitioner feels the same way, but okay. I have argued quite extensively in the first period why I believe that it is legally complicated and, moreover, not necessary. You may conclude from this that the motion, as it has now been formulated, cannot count on much enthusiasm from me and that I would advise her against it. Once again, I would have liked to have seen a slightly broader motion, which I would have been delighted to give 'judge chamber'. But the motion is what she is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u149	Mr. Koerhuis, you will be invited to respond again. But maybe you don't need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u150	Thank you. I hear the Minister saying it can be done. The problem outside is big, so I'd say let's do it. That's our election slogan, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u151	Clear. The motion gets the verdict "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u153	Then the motion to part No. 339.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u154	The motion in part No. Mr Nijboer's 339 is about making tax less attractive through transfer tax. I said in the first term that it was also about access to the housing market. That is a widespread problem in itself. Private landlords are also important for this. They contribute to the housing offer. For this reason, I find this generic tax measure less desirable, because it is not specific but generic. I will, of course, inform the Secretary of State for Finance that this thought has arisen here, but I would like to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u155	Before you continue, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u156	Now the Minister is quite cool towards the Chamber when it comes to investigations and directions. Not all MPs are equally supportive towards the minister, but well, that's up to them. I have just put forward a serious problem that Matthijs Bouman, for example, made a plea in today's Dutch newspaper in Het Financieele Dagblad. All I'm asking the cabinet to do is map that out and see if there's anything you can do about it. I find it strange that all kinds of motions, even motions that may not even be able to get 'judge chamber', are being given 'judge chamber' and that the Minister is in fact rejecting this very constructive motion very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u157	I have heard and appreciated the constructive tone. I fear that I disagree with Mr Nijboer on the effectiveness of the instrument. He says: I know I'm hitting a much wider group with this than the group we're actually talking about. That is exactly, but in reverse, my reasoning is to say that we want to take many measures. However, I do not think that a tax measure which is not specific fits in with the pallet and the series of measures that we are currently taking together. This measure is actually of a different order. He's a little out of my league, too. I think Mr Nijboer is constructive. I do not think that the thought he has and I understand his philosophy is appropriate in the pallet that is at issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u158	I'm sorry about that. I'll definitely come back to Secretary of State Snel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u159	I didn't want to invite you to that, because I was sure you were going to do the same yourself. The Nijboer motion in part No. 340 is about discrimination. We have all spoken loud and clear about this. I also refer to the letter I sent today on this subject. Discrimination is a criminal offence. That's a fact. Strong criminal measures and sanctions are possible. The problem here, and I say to Mr Nijboer, is that, for that reason, I would advise against the motion, which is that active tracking is very difficult for a government. This will lead to a great deal of enforcement costs and implementation problems. We would like to see it and therefore try to encourage as many people as possible to report. We also want to make it easy for people to report or report. That seems to me to be the right approach to this phenomenon. Dan, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u160	Before you proceed, Mr Nijboer has a question or a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u161	This is really a big point. If you as a government know that there is widespread discrimination, but you do not want to actively detect and sanction it, the Minister says that it is too bureaucratic and too much work, and that enforcement is difficult, I think that is a big point in our democracy. I believe that the Minister should not only condemn it, but also actively pursue it. It doesn't have to be that complicated. The Green Amsterdammer did it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u162	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u163	So can the government. You put everything on the board of people who have been refused, who have to prove that because of their last name they couldn't rent a house, which is very difficult, if you start it at all. That's supposed to be the government's guarantee, isn't it? That's what you're Minister for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u164	What I just argued was about sanctions. Mr Nijboer says that there should be a sanction if this happens, because we cannot accept it. The criminal justice system provides for this. That starts with filing a report. What we have just said to each other sees at the front, because this must not happen at all. This can only be done by consulting with the parties involved, i.e. the trade associations and everyone involved in the rental of homes, and by discussing how we can ensure that this does not happen. No matter how sad the investigation is and how much we have been pushed back on the facts, I found the reaction of the industry organisation to be the only good one, namely: we find this unacceptable and we want to act against it. That is why I will talk to them to ensure that the practices identified by De Groene Amsterdammer can no longer be systematically prevented. So it has two sides. The first is sanction by the regular route, namely the corridor to the police and the judge. The second is the preventive side. For that, I want to work with the industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u165	But we're talking about real estate agencies. It really helps if they know that the government can call from time to time and they get punished for discrimination against ethnic minorities. That is really different from doing it afterwards and making agreements with the industry. The government can do the best it can. That also helps preventively. That's how you avoid it. Now it is: they all say it is a disgrace and the industry makes agreements. But how many offices are there? That is how it is maintained and not everything is done to prevent this scandalous discrimination. I really don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u166	I want to do everything I can to prevent this discrimination. We are going to use different instruments for this. But now at the front we say we're going to actively track it down: I'd rather use everything we have on people and resources, to prevent it from happening on the one hand, and on the other hand to sanction the cases that are known to be firmly. That's a very important signal. (NL) Mr President, finally, the motion for a resolution on item No. 341. It calls for "consultation with the UNG in order to strictly enforce the enforcement of provisions relating to chambering." This motion by Mr Ronnes appeals to me. I would suggest to him that I take over the motion, with his approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u167	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? That is not the case. Mr. Ronnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u168	No, that's not the case. I would like to ask a question about the motion on item No. 335. There's now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u169	Before you do that, I would like to make the following observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u170	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Just a few more moments about the motion on part No. 335. It's being modified. Does this automatically mean that the judgment is in the Chamber, or is that still confirmed? How are we gonna do that? I think we should be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u171	I understand that Mrs Beckerman is considering formulating the motion in such a way that it is an investigation into the instrument and that, if that happens, the Minister can give this motion 'judge chamber'. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u172	For my part, I said: in that word'research' I would like to read that we are involved in the discussions and the inventory that is going on with the domes and municipalities. When it comes to the agenda and the parties say that it is helpful to them, the letter I send to the Chamber and, of course, an assessment of the feasibility, desirability and so on will follow in the debate on it. That's how I interpreted it, but it's a little tricky, because I don't have a text right now. Mrs Beckerman has yet to formulate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u173	Mr President, this is exactly what I am talking about. I actually want to make a point of order. If so many words are needed to clarify the amendment of such a motion, let it be amended and let the Minister give an appreciation through a letter or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u174	Yeah, that might be a good idea. Mrs Beckerman changed the operative part as she wished to adjust it in response to the debate with the Minister. Then the motion is changed and sent around again and the spokesmen can look at it and judge it separately once again before it is put to the vote. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u175	Fine. Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u176	Okay, here's how we're gonna do it. Are there any other questions? That is not the case. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-13.u177	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
