ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks for her questions to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media about the report that Dutch industry has appointed zero top women last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year there were 0.0 extra top women added. That was the headline in the Volkskrant last weekend. Only 6% of all directors of listed companies are women. That's as much as last year. The percentage of women on the supervisory boards is still only 25%, so far not the agreed 30%. Year after year we get this message. Since 2013, there have been agreements with business about more women at the top, but time and time again the cabinet does not dare to take real measures. The Minister of Emancipation in this cabinet does nothing but her predecessor. She finds it embarrassing and deeply disappointing. It wants business to get on its feet, but there is no real action. That's why I have the following questions. Does the government share GroenLinks' view that it is really unacceptable that more women should not be at the top of the business world? Since the efforts so far have not worked and the Minister said that she wants the business community to use the final sprint, I ask: what is the cabinet going to do to ensure that more women come to the top of business and that the targets are met? Or were the words about the final sprint empty words? Mr. Chairman. We're running out of patience. GroenLinks wants to know what compelling actions this cabinet is going to take so that we can reach that 30% in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	I would like to thank Mrs Özütok for the questions she has put on an issue which is also of great concern to my colleague, who I am replacing here. Indeed, she has once again taken the word "ashamed' in her mouth. She mentioned 30 missed opportunities in companies that were made up entirely of men. These were 77 companies with 30 job vacancies, where men were only appointed once again. It is clear that we want the legal target we set together in 2013 to be achieved. This has already been discussed in detail with your Chamber in this calendar year. You received a comprehensive letter on 6 March, which also made clear what we are going to do towards 2020 when these targets are not met. You know that there will be a very important moment in this regard in 2019. Then the balance sheet will be finalized. If you look at what came out of this Female Board Index, you can indeed conclude that it is disappointing. But there will also be a broader research: the Business Monitor. It's held under 5,000 companies. The results will also come in the course of 2019. My colleague Van Engelshoven has now asked the ESC to advise us on what good measures would be to achieve that target, which is also a minimum target. That request for advice went to the ESC before the summer. We have also been asked to advise us in the course of 2019. So for the longer term, for 2019, these are the ongoing activities. The following is planned for the short term. A letter will be sent next week, signed by Mr De Boer, the President of VNO-NCW, and my colleague Van Engelshoven. That letter will go to the listed companies. They will be strongly reminded of the arrangements made. Companies that are lagging behind, which are sometimes disappointingly lagging behind, will also be brought into contact with companies that are doing well, because they are there. There are also very good examples to be found. In this way, we hope to get more movement on this subject than we have been able to achieve so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thanks for the answers. Thank you, Minister. But this is really the second time in a short time that I have been standing here on this subject. Last time, in a 30-member debate, the Minister said that she did not shy away from any harsh measure when it came to introducing quotas, but it did not become concrete. It is still unclear what this cabinet is going to do to ensure that more women come to the top. At the rate we are seeing, we are at the mercy of business and we are never going to meet those targets. The Minister finds the figures disappointing, but I find it disappointing that this cabinet does not dare to take measures or even talk to us about what measures it is going to take. Why am I standing here and addressing this issue, Mr. Chairman? Because it doesn't happen automatically, when it's so important, both for companies themselves and for all those young women who need role models. If the top of the business world is always made up of men, then we do not use the talents of our society. We're out of patience, so I'm gonna ask the Cabinet again: are you gonna take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	The House has already had a wide-ranging debate on this subject. It has also been indicated what the journey of time looks like. 2019 is indeed an important year, based on the figures we get. The figure that came out was disappointing, but that is only a very limited part of the research. If the figures are known from the company monitor as a whole, with the 5,000 companies being investigated, and if that has been a new action, there is also the SER advice, which calls for effective measures to achieve our goal, then that is also the time to consider what is still needed in addition to the actions that are already under way. Let us do this carefully, as we agreed. I think the results of the Female Board Index are an additional incentive not to slow down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	Can we expect compelling measures from the cabinet? That is my final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. My colleague has indicated that she will not fail to take firm measures when they are needed. 2019 has been mentioned as a calibration moment, but it is also very important that... You can be very firm, but if it doesn't have an effect, it doesn't make much sense. It is therefore also important to monitor the effectiveness of measures closely. To this end, we have asked the Economic and Social Committee for its opinion. That is an ongoing process and we have asked to advise us in the course of 2019. Let us involve this in what will undoubtedly be a solid debate and where the Chamber will, I think, also get involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	Where there is no will, there is a law. Otherwise, we'll be here in ten years. So we're looking forward to seeing what's coming. On the issue of emancipation, it appears more often that we are always talking about women. Behind each top woman is also a flexible and facilitating man. I'd like to hear if the Minister agrees with us. And if so, what is this cabinet going to do to make that man more concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	Interesting question. I think it's always good to have this kind of discussion wider than just focus on the numbers, but that was the outcome of that Female Board Index. If we agree on targets and then make minimum targets, it is very important that we make maximum efforts to achieve the desired progress in the end. You know that government policy is broad enough to support families, to facilitate childcare. A great deal of money has been allocated for this. This, too, allows families to carry out paid employment. It also offers women the opportunity to perform such top positions, because we know that there are plenty of women in the Netherlands who would like to. There's got to be room for them to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time.
