ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the debate General Political Reviews and I give the floor to Mr Klaver, who is looking in his phone, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and ten years ago, Prime Minister Balkenende entered the APB with good economic growth rates. And ten years ago, VVD leader Mark Rutte filed a motion of censure against that same Prime Minister. But what was Mark Rutte's answer? I looked it up again. The VVD presented a counter-budget in which nearly 10 billion savings were made on care, education, work and development cooperation. And there was a billion relief for people with power. A year later, the VVD even wanted to cut some 12 billion in one year, inter alia by freezing wages for people in the collective sector. And a few weeks after the general considerations in 2008, Wallstreet's poison struck Europe and the Netherlands. Fortis went bankrupt, ABN AMRO was bought by the State for nearly 17 billion euros and Icesave died and put savers and governments in trouble. ING, AEGON and SNS received billions of loans and SNS was later bought by the State. The government has saved banks and insurers with loans and guarantees and acquisitions for around €90 billion. The criticism of Balkenende's naivety was justified, but Rutte's answer was nonsensical. In 2008 he was still in opposition, but since 2010 he has carried out his program. Ultimately, some EUR 50 billion has been cut, the burden on people has been increased and the financial crisis has been exchanged for a crisis in the public sector. We've cut way too hard, says the former director of the CPB, Coen Teulings. Does the Prime Minister share this statement? And, very importantly, does he recognise that there is a crisis in the public sector? Mr. Chairman. After eight years of Balkenende the shine was off and after eight years of Rutte there are quite some dents in his teflon layer. Ten years ago, the Prime Minister was perhaps naive, but now the current Prime Minister is. It's a trait that seems to fit too long in the Tower. The little windows of the Tower hinder the view of reality. It's like we're back in 2008: bank buffers are too low and top salaries are rising. The supervision of fraud and financial crime is not sufficient to allow us to see that at ING...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The case is settled with a settlement. Why this class justice? And the attitude of the banks is one of arrogance towards society. The Netherlands, and the VVD first, allows and stands on the brakes when it comes to making the financial sector healthy. The VVD prefers to talk about penalties and discounts on welfare benefits for people in difficult neighbourhoods.That's how we know the VVD area, but the real problem area of the Netherlands, that's the Zuidas! It's like the VVD is longing back to the past, before 2008. Certainly, the economy is growing and employment is rising, but it is naive. It is the 2007 economy, of large banks and large risks, of bubbles in stock markets and on the housing market, of rising top salaries and of increasing inequality. And the Prime Minister's optimism is based on the past. His longing is a longing for the old days. He doesn't realize it's time for a turning point. The Prime Minister is a historian and perhaps that explains that he looks more at the past than at the future. When he talks about multinationals like Unilever and Shell, it seems as if he, like his predecessor, is longing back to that VOC time. Mr. Chairman. But the world has changed, the economy has changed and presents us with new challenges. Earlier I talked about Eindhoven. I have taken it as an example, as an economic miracle. But it hasn't always been. In the 1990s, DAF went bankrupt and Philips had to reorganise drastically. 36,000 jobs were lost. Eindhoven did not opt for a lamentable desire for the past, but for a new economy, for cooperation between government, business and knowledge institutions. They chose a turning point. Now it is a modern city that is at the forefront of innovation and sustainability, in investments in clean energy and transport, in new jobs. Eindhoven shows that there is another way. Our economy is driven by technological innovation and start-ups around Eindhoven. Our economy is driven by science, innovation and activity around Wageningen. Our economy drives the creative industry in Amsterdam. Our economy, our jobs, our prosperity, drives the entrepreneurship of small and medium-sized enterprises. And yes, big companies are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'm just trying to catch up on the last sentence. Nice words! Sure, in Eindhoven things are going well, also by going along with the time. Over time, I found that Mr Klaver presented a somewhat one-sided picture of the policy of the cabinet and also of the previous cabinet. He kept linking it to my party, the VVD. I kind of missed the fact that, in dealing with the financial sector, he also saw that we did the necessary work there, when it comes to the bail-in that the investors have to pay rather than the banks, the common European supervision, the bonus ban and the reduction of bonuses even more than at European level. I myself advocated a clawback option based on the personal responsibility of the bankers. I have also recently heard my colleague in the Group of the European People's Party argue for personal consequences. I understand that he is widening the differences, but I would ask him to take note of the fact that not only Cabinets but also parties are looking more closely at what has happened and that my party has also learned from this and not to paint such a one-sided picture as he just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Of course, things have happened and the VVD has also been involved in this. We have had to take steps from Europe, fortunately, to make our banking sector stand better. But it's not enough to be honest. The bank buffers are still too low. In the Banking Union, we still do not share all the risks together, which puts our banks at enormous risk if there is another economic crisis, for example if it goes wrong in Italy. I notice that the VVD is actually opposed to this in Europe. When it comes to the top rewards, for example at ING, I have heard you. But the question is what action the cabinet will take in the near future. For example, we have our own initiative law that is still going to be dealt with here. Before the municipal elections, Mr Dijkhoff said: interesting, we are going to look at that. After that, I heard him: is this what we have to do? I heard a bit more retreating movements back then. I do not want to stick with words that we think that what is happening at ING is really not possible. Politics has a responsibility to intervene. If Mr Dijkhoff says 'I want to do that with you', top!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	I think I said the exact same thing before and after the elections. That's usually my habit. If there are public risks by private institutions, rather: if the taxpayer has to pay for mistakes in banks, indeed, I am looking for the most effective method to limit that and then retrieve it, but leave room for entrepreneurship in a bank that may not be the first thing you think about right away, and not to let the state determine salaries and have a discussion every year. I don't think either of us has figured that out yet. We're both working on that. But as long as we see each other where we can work together, I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	Of course. Where we can limit banks and do that together, very well. But one thing: banks are not entrepreneurs. That is really the biggest misunderstanding of the past few years. Banks and bankers, they're civil servants, and that's how we have to deal with them. Nor do we allow too much entrepreneurship in the government; this leads to very large debris. Banks and bankers are civil servants and we must treat them as such. This means that we, as politicians, can make very strict demands on what is and is not deserved there. We should not leave that to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. I surprised Mr Dijkhoff. He had to come around, so I'm gonna repeat the sentence. And yes, large companies are also important, very important even for our economy. NXP is such a crucial company. It's also from that beautiful region of Eindhoven. But we almost lost it to the Chinese. It is a company specializing in very high-quality technology. It is crucial for the Netherlands as a frontrunner in photonics. They are crucial for the development of solar panels, displays, webcams and lasers. It's the technology of the future. It is much more important, I would say, than a head office of, for example, Shell or Unilever. China and the US are protecting their high-quality technology, but Europe and The Hague are watching powerlessly. Where is the law to protect our truly important companies on strategic and technological grounds? The law which extends the period of reflection in the event of hostile takeovers has been announced by the government agreement, but there is still no sign of it. Can I expect this cabinet to come to the Chamber this autumn, so that beautiful and important companies such as NXP are protected from hostile takeovers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr Klaver spoke nicely about business. As far as I'm concerned, every business where people make their living is beautiful. You mentioned NXP, but Shell and Unilever moved you with one sweep, which you find less important. If you really think companies are so important, can you not present a counter-budget with left-wing partners in which you simply increase taxes by EUR 6 billion through the old classic recipe, at a time when we are just getting out of the crisis? Even now, you are destroying the economy in the left-hand way, while we are in the process of lowering taxes, of raising taxes again. What do we do with that? All things that are beautiful, but we do increase spending. All the stories you just kept about the crisis: that crisis will come back if we continue to increase the old recipe of taxes and spending. At the end of the day, we think, "Hey, where's the deficit coming from?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	One thing about the counter-budget: that deficit does not go up. Two. I'm talking about NXP for a reason, and I haven't actually heard from the cabinet about that. I hear the cabinet about taking over Shell and Unilever and the danger of them disappearing from the Netherlands. That's what we're going to spend EUR 2 billion for. But I do not yet see the beginning of a strategy to keep companies that are important for the Netherlands to maintain technology in the Netherlands. If we were to miss a head office in the Netherlands, it wouldn't be nice. But if high-quality technology comes into the hands of the Chinese, who can profit economically from it, we are far behind. I notice that the cabinet is doing so much by spending 2 billion on the dividend tax to make it more attractive for a number of companies to stay here, but nothing is being done to preserve the high-tech companies that are here and especially the knowledge that is there that has value for the Netherlands, although it is written in the government agreement. That's the point I'm making about NXP. I think that's such a stark contrast to what comes out of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	I do not know why Mr Klaver immediately reacts as agitated as I mention this point. My question was how it was possible... Rather, my point is that you are not even defending that, at a time when we are finally coming out of a crisis, we were raising a lot of taxes, for citizens and businesses, we are going to lower taxes; logically, because it has been paid. Now we lower taxes and what does GroenLinks do in times when the net is just as good? Go, raise taxes and go, increase spending. We know about these taxes: in the event of a crisis, let's get rid of the tax revenue. The expenses remain. In the longer term, you will significantly increase the risk for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	Our counter-budget is absolutely clear. It's true, the taxes are going up. They're going up pretty fast, by the way. We're not abolishing the dividend tax. The reduction of the Vpb is not going to happen. In fact, that income tax goes up, too. The energy tax for large companies is also increasing, all of which is true. But what's the opposite? We're not increasing VAT. We're making sure that people's energy bills aren't going to rise in the next few years. Mr. Buma, if you want the burden on the people in this country to be limited, it's always a right-wing move, I'll say, just to look at taxes. But you know, it's not just about the money that comes in your wallet, it's about your energy bill and how expensive your groceries are. That is what this counter-budget is responding to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	I wonder if NXP, which is a company that has to earn its money internationally and can do so elsewhere, is happy with the increase in corporate tax offered by you. Because just for a company like NXP that earns its money here, the reduction in corporate tax is important. Then you can say 'you can't prove that', but I can say that there is a very good chance that an increase will involve risks for large companies. A reduction in corporate tax is therefore good for the companies you would like to keep, but you do not draw the consequences you should draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	I don't want to negotiate with the knife to the throat. In recent years, we have seen the trend that large companies are threatening to leave and indicate that they can work cheaper in other countries. There's a race to the bottom. I don't want to be a part of that. The taxes that companies pay have been eroded. In recent years, people in the Netherlands have started to pay more and more taxes on the income they earn. The revenue the government receives from taxes paid by large companies on their profits has only fallen. We want to reverse that trend. That's all we do. I think this is quite right, because large companies understand very well that they can do so well in the Netherlands because we have beautiful education, a fantastic infrastructure and good care. But it has to stay that way, and that's what we're paying for. The crisis in the public sector is too great. I'm not looking away. If the burden on large businesses is to be increased, I will do so with conviction. We invest that in the police, in education and in healthcare, so that the problems there can be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Klaver forgets half of his own budget, namely not to let go of the income tax that is important to the teacher, the police officer and the nurse. You are going to raise wages in a few sectors and then say: if you work in a municipality or if you work in a province, you have had bad luck. We ensure that the income of all Dutch people who have a job goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	Rise and shine. You mean rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. We are going to increase income and lower taxes. You give a number of sectors extra salary by raising taxes, which many other people simply pay. That's your choice. It is essentially a classic seventies left-wing choice, but I think it is very unwise because we still have to earn our money in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	In the purchasing power developments in recent years, we always saw that reality was left behind in what Cabinets predicted. I understand that, too, because there are a lot of expenses you can't foresee. I am very concerned about messages that are going to be more expensive and the energy bill that is going up. That is not what is happening in our proposals. That's at least as important for what people have to spend. That's the choice we make. I think people understand that very well. They shouldn't fall for everyone getting 1.5%. People understand very well that in the end they pay for it themselves when groceries become more expensive and the energy bill goes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	Speaking of messages, there is really one thing I do not understand about the position of GroenLinks. This cabinet is taking a very brave step. It increases the burden on consumption and reduces the burden on labour. That is something I think GroenLinks advocated in the past. It is a good step which is also entirely in line with the GroenLinks election programme, where meat and insurance, for example, go to the higher VAT rate and are therefore taxed higher. It is in spirit with the GroenLinks election programme, it is a good step, it is a green step, it is a sustainable step and it is criticised. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	I'm sorry, whose election program said that VAT would be increased? That wasn't in our election program. No one's election programme said that VAT should be increased. Unlike other parties, we have written down a whole bunch of taxes that go up, for example on meat. That's right. To anyone who tries to tell here that raising the low VAT rate is a greening measure, I say the following. The pollution doesn't come from culture. The pollution doesn't come from newspapers. The pollution is not in fruit and vegetables. In fact, people should eat them more. Thus, increasing the low VAT rate is not a greening measure, but a way to raise money to make the ideal of a flat tax possible. The money from the VAT increase is used to enable a flat tax, which mainly benefits the highest income, as we see in the figures. I don't think that's green, I don't think that's left, and I'm never gonna sign for that in his life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	It would be green and left to see which things we discourage. For example, you can think of a sugar tax, to name but a few. But you can do that through excise duties. You don't have to use the VAT for that. GroenLinks did that with the meat tax. He's putting the VAT in...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	Sure. It was in our election program. Anyone could read that and anyone could vote for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	Sure. I quote from that too, but that is, as far as I am concerned, the wrong method. The direction you take is that of taxing consumption and reducing the burden on labour. What makes you rich is less burdened and what makes you poor is more burdened. What puts pressure on the earth, namely consumption, is being taxed more. That's a green step. That's a good step. That's a brave step. I don't get this either. If you look at who benefits most from a lower VAT rate, they're rich people. In a relative sense too, you can see that it is not the left to keep it low, but that it is indeed a good step to increase and harmonise it and reduce the burden on labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	I disagree. I do not think VAT is a greening measure. If you really want to green up, if you really want to do something, then you have to sit on the energy load and look at what it does for large consumers. We focus on consumers. The whole debate is about consumers, but if you really want to make them sustainable, you have to focus on big companies. 80% of all energy consumption in the Netherlands comes from large consumers. They pay up to 220 times less energy taxes than ordinary citizens. That's the button you need to turn. That's where you need to green up. I don't see the Cabinet doing that. No, it chooses the instrument of low VAT. I insist that this is not the way to green it. It doesn't reduce CO emissions. Nothing, zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	Now you walk away from the family wallet. That's what I was talking about; that's what it's about. What I don't think is fair is that you say the groceries are getting more expensive but you don't say you're gonna make more money, so you're gonna have more money left. That's the story of the cabinet. That is a sustainable step. What the cabinet does regularly is listen to objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	For example, we have had the measure of pay dispensation. The aim was to increase work for people with a distance from the labour market. There were many objections to this, and the cabinet has sent a letter. I hope that's the other way around. If it is indeed proven that it is good to tax consumption a little more and to give that much more back to lower labour costs, so that people are left with more, I hope that GroenLinks will consult himself and listen just as the cabinet regularly does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u29	You should always listen. If anyone has better arguments than you, you're definitely gonna have to. I just don't think it's true in this case. Look, you're pointing out a CPB study that shows that a low VAT ultimately gives a greater advantage to higher incomes and that it's better to give it back through taxes. There is one major problem in the way in which the cabinet does this: the instrument of the tax refund and the tax rebate has become quite blunt. It does not reach about 20% of the Dutch population. So the way you can send back those taxes is very limited. That's why I see that it's gonna hit the bottom of the income building very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u30	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u31	One more time, Madam President. You have to tell the honest story. I don't think it's fair when you say "only that costs a little more, I call and throw the cabinet in the face" and if you say "shame, shame!" yells, while you don't mention that people have more left in their wallet through the lower loads. If 96% of Dutch citizens are making progress, that is also the story you have to tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the economy of the future, but the Hague focus is on mainports, the financial Zuidas, more cars, more ships, more aircraft and more financial products, the economy of the past, the economy of the hot air. It's an economic loss strategy. We need an optimistic vision of the future, with smart growth, innovation and creativity, creating real jobs and sustainable prosperity. Mr. Chairman. The abolition of the dividend tax is therefore absurd, the reduction of the Vpb is wrong and the increase of VAT is foolish. It benefits large companies and it is at the expense of society. For the past eight years, the PM's political antenna has been fine-tuned, but now there's noise on the line. The Prime Minister was a master at it to distract us from what was really important. You got distracted because the debate under the leadership of the political right was about Easter eggs, burqas and the Wilhelmus. Meanwhile, the rents went up, the charges went up and job security down and savings were made on what we as a society consider important: public services, care, education, safety, reliable public transport. It's the trick of a political pickpocket. You get distracted while your pockets are being emptied. But that trick doesn't work anymore. Society's on to it. The VVD does not see the real business, the real entrepreneurs in SMEs, and forgets the people in the public sector: the teachers, the caregivers, the police officers, the bus drivers. It's the people who keep our society running every day. It is the people who prepare our children for their future, who care for our elderly and sick, who ensure our security, who provide jobs, prosperity and well-being. And the water is on their lips. The bureaucracy, the workload, the lack of appreciation: they are no longer holding up. And if banks threaten to fall, they'll be saved with billions. But when people threaten to fall, it stays quiet in the Tower. The only way to ensure that people are listening is when people start making noise and getting up. And that's what happens, because something's brewing in our country. There is a great deal of willingness to act. The will to work together is enormous. The teachers connect with caregivers, police officers, bus drivers, military and firefighters. "Your story is our story," they say. "Your battle is our battle," they encourage each other. That's what I've been seeing in the canteens for the past few months. Their demand must also be our demand, here in The Hague. Not abolishing the dividend tax, but investing 2 billion more in public services over the coming year as a first step in repairing the damage done in recent years, as a first step towards restoring confidence. Mr. Chairman. What does the Prime Minister say to the teacher from Hoofddorp who told me that every day, while working overtime in such a full class, she feels that she has failed, that she has not been able to give all the children the attention they deserve? And what does the Prime Minister say to Marlies, who works in addiction care and does so because she wants to take care of people who can't take care of themselves, but who, as uninvited guests, have to hide behind one of her clients, the biggest, because there is no colleague to help her and the police are too far away to be there in time to provide support? And what does the Prime Minister say to the officer who tells me that after a day shift he goes home as quickly as possible to recuperate and then another night shift in the evening because too many colleagues are sick? And what does the Prime Minister say to the bus driver who told me in Den Bosch about how his profession has changed, namely that since the tenders, since the nineties more hours, he has been working a lot more hours, but that his boss is more on his skin, that he has to be much more productive and that he doesn't even have the opportunity to wait for that old lady who comes up with her rollator because otherwise he won't reach his targets? What does the Prime Minister say to society? Is he gonna keep listening to Shell and Unilever? Does he let the boardrooms decide his choices, by the multinationals? Or is he listening to the stories from the canteens, the stories from all those people who do it for us? Listen to them, I'll warn the Prime Minister. Listen to them, because they're making themselves heard, already. And later, at the next election, for sure. Can I give you one concrete example of what I really think is a missed opportunity? That is youth care and the problems of young people who become homeless are going to wander, get into debt. The king spoke of it yesterday, and rightly so. When someone turns 18, youth care often stops, while many of these young people still need care and support. Does this cabinet think in systems or does it look at people? Is this cabinet prepared to relax the age limits for youth care so that all young people who want it and need it can get the care they need? Mr. Chairman. The coalition can ignore us today and push the abolition of the dividend tax through. The coalition can also ignore us in the autumn and vote for the abolition of the dividend tax, in the Lower House and perhaps also in the Upper Chamber. But in the spring, you'll lose the majority in the First Chamber. Then you can no longer ignore the opposition. Then you can no longer ignore society. Then you cannot continue with the measure that was not included in any electoral programme. The measure will not apply until 1 January 2020. That is why I will submit an initiative law for the recovery of the dividend tax. I'll tell our Prime Minister you're not done with me for a while. Mr. Chairman. When we look at Europe, we see the contrasts increasing over the last ten years. For more than ten years now, we have seen national politicians giving up on Europe. And the scapegoats are back: Europe itself, the refugees, Muslims and, tragically, the Jews again. Extreme nationalism and racism are once again wandering through Europe like ghosts of the past, and not only in Poland or Hungary. My love for Europe is based on the tragic history of our continent, on the lessons learned from it, on the progressive values that the Union represents, on human rights, on the welfare state, on the freedoms of the Enlightenment. These rights and freedoms are becoming less and less self-evident. They're threatened from the outside, but they're also hollowed out from the inside. Our values are under pressure from strong men who deliberately risk classical freedoms in order to perpetuate their power and fathom their bank accounts. What does the Prime Minister think of the Sargentini report? Is he going to argue in the Council for criminal proceedings against Orbán Hungary? Is he going to speak to the Hungarian Government, which has now launched a campaign of billboards, among other things, against our colleague in the European Parliament, in order to put it in the wrong and wrong light? Mr. Chairman. Our country, too, must regain its position. Our transatlantic orientation via London to Washington begins to look like a dead end through Brexit and Trump. That is why we need to re-choose, choose to deepen cooperation in the European Union, re-enforce a strengthened United Nations, and look for new allies on the major issues of today's day: global security, social equality, climate change and migration. People in Europe are concerned about their socio-economic future, because Europe no longer protects people from the excesses of globalisation. This is what the elections to the European Parliament are about next year. I want a strong Europe that contributes to shared prosperity and socio-economic security. A Europe that exists for people and not for banks and large companies. If large companies pay less and less taxes in Europe while the burden on people is increasing, it is socially undesirable, because it is not fair. That would be economically ill-advised, because it would be at the expense of income and employment. Then it is politically unsustainable, because it affects people's trust. No, many politicians in the Netherlands say no, because Europe is not about fiscal policy. As far as I'm concerned, yes. Europe is indeed about fiscal policy. An honest Europe must ensure that large companies pay their fair share, tackle tax avoidance, introduce minimum rates of profit tax and tax for tech giants such as Google and Apple who barely pay taxes. Delete the reduction of the tax on profits for large companies. Delete the dividend tax and stop the tax race to the bottom. Invest in the public sector. I call once again on the Prime Minister to do so. The Prime Minister is a historian and a good historian also knows when to be on the right side of history. It took a while, but VVD and CDA are out. The gas crane in Groningen closes and after long sobbing Groningers is finally listened to. The crane closes and investments are being made in the future of the north. That's what deserves compliments. Our economy and our society must get rid of gas in the interests of Groningen and as a step in tackling climate change. I am particularly proud that we have made a climate law with seven parties, a law that we will deal with as soon as possible in this Chamber. We need to provide society with certainty about how we tackle climate change, how we turn to renewable energy. That is what this law does: to give certainty, but to give certainty alone is not enough. It is now a question of the practical implementation of the measures. How are we going to achieve the objectives? It is time for action, because the Netherlands is lagging far behind in achieving its own objectives in Europe. The climate agreement under way is important. All sectors of our economy must participate. No taboos on measures for agriculture, traffic or large industry, I say to this cabinet, because no matter how important it is for all sectors to be involved in the climate tables, we must not be held hostage by the major polluters. Especially when it comes to a fair climate policy, politics must take the lead. It's not a citizen's bill, it's a big company's bill. An effective climate policy can only succeed if it remains in place, I say to Mr Buma. Why, so I ask the cabinet but also Mr Buma, is the discount scheme for the energy bill being cut? The purpose of this scheme is to make the energy bill affordable for everyone. I had a debate yesterday with Mr Buma on the radio. He accused me that with what the cabinet is doing, which is now in the plans for this year, the energy bill will eventually be much lower than in the plans of GroenLinks. I did the math once. In GroenLinks' plans, the energy bill for an average household would be €200 lower this year. If you consider that GroenLinks manages to reduce 80 megatons of CO2 and 20 megatons more than it takes to achieve the objectives of Paris, then we have a much better order of business. I really want to ask the cabinet to come back to the idea that you should abolish this discount. If you really want people to believe that climate change means something to them, that we're gonna go through this together, that we're gonna go through that transition together, you need to make sure you don't burden people unnecessarily. This cabinet will do that. Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister is having trouble with the future. On the housing market, pensions, the labour market, fine words in the coalition agreement, but neither approach nor support in society. What is the Cabinet going to do for people looking for a home at an affordable price? The CDA has proposed a government commissioner. Interesting. What does the Prime Minister think of this idea? What is the government going to do about the injustice in the pension system that people who have done long and hard work have to work longer than those who have high education and high incomes? And what is the cabinet going to do to make people with disabilities take part in our society with pride? Why does the cabinet scrap the investments in sheltered work? These are the challenges of the future, which have not yet been addressed. If the Prime Minister wants to make history, he must answer these questions with priority. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Sometimes you have to be tough. That's what the Prime Minister said about Lili and Howick when they were about to be put on the plane. But the soft forces in society were too strong. Because sometimes you have to be human. These children may stay, but once again the debate is blocked. No children's pardon, as was always the intention and on which agreements and promises have been made. It's the failure of politics. Afraid of the populists on the right flank there is the fear of doing the right thing, of being righteous, of being human. Certainly: no matter how well we try to make our system, no matter how we try to change all the procedures, there will always be dilemmas in asylum policy. But does the Prime Minister agree with me that when it comes to children, their rights should always have priority? That their importance must always be at the forefront? Not the political bickering, not the electoral risks, not the opinion polls, but just being human because it's about children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u34	It is a good thing that Mr Klaver also comes to the difficult but important issue of asylum policy. With regard to the very specific issue on which Mr Klaver has also spoken, about Lili and Howick, had he considered that they should have already obtained a residence permit at the beginning of the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u35	As far as I've been able to look at the file, I can see that there's been tremendous training and that there were reasons not to give it. I understand that very well, but in the end I look at where we are now, namely that they are in the Netherlands for so many years, that they speak the language, that they are completely rooted here. Then I say they can stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u36	Once again, I think everyone can give it to these kids in this situation. But we also have a responsibility for policy here. In fact, do you say to all those people who knock here: if you only make sure that enough time passes, if you only have children here, then GroenLinks will finally say that you will get a ticket to stay here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u37	No. What I am saying is that we have not been effective in recent years to ensure that people are deported in time and that procedures have lasted for a very long time. Look, we have managed to shorten procedures on the part of refugees, but on the part of the government they are still very long. The decisive mines that the IND has are still hugely long. There are still possibilities that take a very long time for decisions to fall. I say, even if we are going to improve that, it will still be the case in the future that we may not get there and that it will take a very long time for you to know something. What I do know about children, because that has been investigated: if children have stayed here for five years, they are so rooted that the damage of sending them away is too great. Then I say, "Then they can stay here." Is that fair in all cases? Does that allow people to take advantage of the system? Absolutely, but I choose the rights of the child and the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u38	Would it be in the best interests of the child to ensure that procedures are stretched in order to obtain sufficient harrowingness? Is it not the child's interest to ensure that clarity is made very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u40	Is GroenLinks therefore prepared to say: perhaps we should say in repeated procedures that you cannot serve them in the Netherlands? You just need to be able to be deported when you've had a proper procedure and new procedures are in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, you know our position on that point. I do think we should look at how these procedures can be even shorter. There's something else. I have looked at the expansion policy: how are we doing in the Netherlands and how are we doing in other countries? It may not sound popular for that side of the Chamber, but you can see in the surrounding countries that people who do not have the right to stay in the country are much more likely to opt for a return home if the country pursues a softer broadcasting policy, leaves more room for people and better engages in conversation with them. We do not choose to do so in the Netherlands. Actually, it's a lot harder on us. This leads to fewer expulsions than in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u43	Finally. I don't share that analysis. On the contrary, I see that very often it is voluntary and ultimately it does not work. But I think GroenLinks has to choose. You can't keep saying: sue, we don't set a limit and if you last long enough, you'll end up getting a residence permit. That is not a credible asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think I've already responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u45	On the same point, a supplement. Mr Klaver says too easily that it is the government's fault and the lengthy procedures. I do not rule out cases where that happens, but much has already been done to speed it up. Does Mr Klaver therefore think it is in the interest of the child that we should limit the number of times that someone can make a repeated application and wait for its outcome in the Netherlands? Because that leads to children who are not rooted here and are able to return faster, being kept here by their parents between shore and ship by just stacking procedures. Does he think it is a good idea to limit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u46	What I want is for the deadlines for responding to repeated procedures to be much shorter. There's an important problem there. They're often too long. That is on the IND's side and sometimes on the side of justice and the Council of State. But I wouldn't want to shorten those procedures. Why? Ultimately, asylum policy is about people and individual matters are very complicated. That is why I believe that people should have the right to indicate each time that something has changed in their situation. That means you have to be able to sue, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u47	Sometimes these things are very simple and there is nothing new. But the right to stack and make renewed applications leads to stretching. There's nothing you can do about that as a government. If Mr Klaver says that he wants to do everything he can to clarify quickly and to make it final, I also expect him to limit the number of times you are allowed to make an application.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u48	I don't agree that the government can't help it. Recently, we have once really dived into all these deadlines. The deadlines for the migrants, the refugees who come here to make an application have been cut short. You're right. But on the government side, those deadlines are still very long. I think this also has to do with the capacity of the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u49	GroenLinks and 50PLUS are both members of the opposition. If questions come to me about Mr Klaver's input, I would be happy to help him, because then we might be able to support each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u50	Look! Oh, that's very kind of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u51	Yeah, that's me once in a while. I get a lot of tweets and e-mails from people who say that they haven't heard Mr Klaver at all about what older people can expect from GroenLinks. Does he agree that the figures presented by the Nibud yesterday clearly show that older people are falling further behind in relation to workers? How does GroenLinks view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u52	I do wonder if you have also received emails about all the other people to whom you have asked this question. That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u53	Yes, I can reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr Krol is very kind to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u55	You've seen for a while that older people tend to make less progress in purchasing power. There are two reasons for this. On the one hand, this is the case with pension funds, if they cannot index. We can change the rules here, but it is more difficult to steer them. The second reason is just about people with, for example, a small additional AOW. That's where I see very big problems. Because by choosing the way money is returned, there are a lot of people who only have an AOW and miss all kinds of tax discounts. And I find that problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u56	On point two, we quickly found each other. On point one, I can tell you that at least my constituents had much more confidence in your former colleague, Mr Grashoff, who saw very clear openings there. Maybe you should take a closer look at his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u57	I will pass it on to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u58	You started out so nicely, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u59	I always find nice words about my colleague, Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u60	Yes, we can do that after this morning's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u61	We've heard a litany for about an hour now against just about everything this coalition does. That was about a tiny piece. Last year, by the summer, we had a debate on the measures taken by Europe to accommodate refugees at the border. Then I asked your colleague Van Ojik to repeat those words. He didn't repeat those words at the time. My question to you is this: do you still think that this coalition has come under a moral limit with the decisions written down on the reception of asylum seekers in Europe, or do you no longer think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u62	I had very positive words about greening and sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u63	What amazes me, in particular, is that you could have just joined in. The reason you stood aside was because the coalition went in the negotiations at the time in a direction that you referred to as "under the moral limit."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'm sticking to all the words I've said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u65	But then you will be in a position to use all kinds of words about support for the cabinet, whenever you need it, while supporting a cabinet that falls below the moral lower limit of GroenLinks. In addition, in this Chamber, everyone, except GroenLinks, believes that these steps by the European Commission are good. GroenLinks will be all alone. That may also explain your big words, which are far from always based on facts. If you seriously think that we should put our shoulder to it together, then you should not stand aside, call it "moral lower limits," do nothing about it and just fight with everyone for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u66	That's what the guy who didn't stick out in the opposition to the coalition says, because he was on a vacation of responsibility, I'd like to say. Look, I don't regret that we're not in this cabinet for a day, not at all. When I see what this cabinet is doing, I think: thank God we're not there! And if I look around here now, I think there are some colleagues from other parties who think that we would not have done that either. I'm glad we're not in it. We're not signing up for that dividend tax. We are not going to sign off on the reduction of taxes on profits. And we are not in favour of the refugee policy that is being pursued either. And you can call it a "little thing," but in the end I think the whole idea of sending people, including real refugees, back to countries in North Africa is not a good idea. I'll stick with that. I put my hand out to you. I said at the time: we would like to distinguish between economic refugees and political refugees, and indeed ensure that economic refugees are returned as soon as possible. That was not enough for you; you wanted us to go beyond what happened with the PVV in the first cabinet. We said no to that at the time. To this day, I'm happy with that, and I'm actually happier with the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u67	The result is that the isolation of GroenLinks is increasing. Why do I say that? Because in this Chamber all parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u68	It is about isolation, and that makes my group very enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u69	No, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u70	This isolation is growing, because it concerns the future of Europe. Why do I say that? You are now giving a litany of everything that the cabinet isn't doing right. I say: often on the basis of completely wrong or partial facts. But the opposition too has a responsibility to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u71	Then do you call me one thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u72	No, Mr Klaver, Mr Buma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u73	I was finishing my sentence. My point is that you constantly give the impression that you want to participate, to make choices. You're gonna take out all the canteens for that. But that's where they get to see someone who's just thrilled that he can stand on the side. That's not the way we're helping the country. And if you want to take up the role of opposition leader, if Mr Wilders is not and you are the opposition worker under him, then you should take up that position as we did last time: support what is good, reject what is not good, in full disclosure and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u74	Well, for a party in total isolation... For example, we have been able to broaden an initiative by the Labour Party and GroenLinks for the Climate Act to seven parties, which means that it is no longer of two parties, but of all of us here in the Chamber. I believe that this is about the most important climate initiative that has passed through the Chamber in recent years. I am very glad that it belongs to all of us now, and not just to two parties from the opposition. It's an example of how to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u77	I am surprised that you have ten minutes left. So it can be short. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma, who speaks on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u78	Madam President. I had some doubts, but I would like to come back to the moments this morning in the debate in which, I think, borders were approached and actually exceeded. I am talking about the moments when colleagues were shouting "fuck off" to each other, of "go back to your own country" in a manner of speaking, and when a colleague's private life was riding in it for a while. Then I think we should all pay attention and realise that what we are doing here is all being looked at. It is broadcast in schools; they are watching this debate. Then, of course, we can all say "the one most often in the picture wins," but I think we'll all lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u79	Madam President. Five years ago, the celebration of 200 years of the Kingdom of the Netherlands began. The celebration lasted a long time, which lasted almost two years. That is not because the festivities were so extensive, but because we have always struggled in this country to identify a moment of origin for our country. Actually, that origin of our kingdom was a quarter-century struggle. And actually, we need to celebrate that 200-year anniversary by 2039. Because then it is two centuries since Belgium finally separated and the Netherlands definitively had the form it has so far. Today, 180 years later, we are discussing the budget for 2019. That one looks good. I see hopeful purchasing power figures. Very rarely so many Dutch progressed. I see impressive employment rates. In years, not so many Dutch people had a job. And the government debt hasn't been so low in a long time. Then it's tempting to kick your ass as a coalition party, but the CDA doesn't need an opposition to know it doesn't work that way. We owe these good figures to the Dutch who made sacrifices when things went wrong and who worked very hard to get out of the crisis. Many of the people I speak to do so do not feel that things are getting better. And besides, we're making decisions not only for 2019, but also for the future of our country. In twenty years' time, our political descendants, perhaps in this room, when we return from temporary housing elsewhere, will discuss the plans for the anniversary year 2039. A look at 2039 forces us to look beyond the delusion of the day. What do we do for the generation after us, for the children of today, to whom we wish to pass on our country? We live in a time of very great changes. These changes lead to uncertainty. This uncertainty leads to concern for many people. What will our country look like in 20 years? Can I still get the care I need? Do I still have a reasonable pension? What does society look like? Do individualism and self-interest prevail, or have we become a connected nation, where we have an eye for each other? Has technology enriched our lives, or are we at the mercy of choices of big data and algorithms? Many plans in this budget help us on our way to the year 2039. For example, we are investing EUR 2 billion in the care of the elderly. The gas tap is closing faster, because Groningen deserves a quake-free future. We are taking the first steps towards a defence that is in order again, in order to cope with the uncertainty in the world. We are building a simpler and fairer tax system: lower taxes and more jobs for a social flat tax, as long advocated by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u80	On the issue of Defence: the first steps are taken, but I noticed in the pieces that we are going down again in a few years' time, towards a lower percentage of what we earn with each other. How can Mr Buma ensure that this trend continues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u81	Two comments. The first is that, when I wrote this down, an associate wrote that Mr Van der Staaij would come forward at the moment. I'll check that out. The second is that I knew that. However, I have left the point, because his question is quite justified. I'm bouncing it to the Prime Minister. Yes, that's what you're Prime Minister for! That's what you're Prime Minister for! In 2014, the Prime Minister said "2%" on behalf of all of us in Wales. We are now making a very substantial investment, EUR 1.5 billion, in the Defense Department. It appears that we are far from reaching the 2% that we will have to achieve. So we will gradually have to get a look at how we are going to proceed and at the risk that, despite the 1.5 billion, we are going to go down in percentage rather than up. So there's still a lot to do. The task of the Chamber is a very serious one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u82	Good point, but in 2022 we would have fallen again in concrete terms compared to 2021. I have the boldness to come forward because Mr Buma said: we have the look at 2039 and we have to look beyond next year. That's what it's good for. But does the CDA group say that we must prevent that, we absolutely do not want that percentage to go down, that has to go up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u83	Look, the easiest thing I can do is say it's after 2022. That is useful, because that is after the coalition's term; we will solve that again. I think that is very complicated and that we should look ahead to what we do. So I'm gonna want to take a look at that. Although I know that the responsibility of this coalition extends until 2021, we have also seen that everyone can see those figures.... that the percentage is going to fall. Together we know that 2% is not there every 2%, but because we have a military force that is still not fully capable of handling the future. There's a lot going on, but there's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u85	I was working on a number of longer-term measures. We are building a simpler and fairer tax system. Lower taxes and more jobs through a social flat tax, as long advocated by the CDA. Expenditure on child schemes is increasing by EUR 1 billion. In short, next year's budget puts our future in the ground. One of the big questions we have to answer for the future is how many Dutch people we are going to make the policy for. Professor Jan Latten, chief CBS demographicist, asked himself in June, when he said goodbye, how could it be that in the Netherlands the amount of CO emissions in 2050, how many homes would have to be off the gas in that year, how high the sea level would be and what that would mean for the height of the dikes, but that no one would look at population growth. "It just happens to us." I've been thinking about that: "it just happens to us." Population growth is considerably higher than we thought a few years ago. That has consequences for policy. Suppose population development continues, as CBS has predicted, and we go to 18, 19 or perhaps 20 million inhabitants, then the generation after us will face compelling questions. I take it that the number of single-person households is increasing dramatically. What does that mean for housing? Where are these 2 million extra Dutch people going to live, work and recreate? How do we provide energy to these extra Dutch people? Do they fit on the same roads, these tracks? Can everyone really live in the inner city? I don't think so. In short, this has never been properly thought out. Before I say my next sentence, I'm looking at the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u86	Yes, Mr Dijkhoff is also looking at you, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u87	Yes, Mr President, that is an interesting point. It's kind of weird to say that I was talking about it. Of course, that's not why it's interesting. But Mr Buma seems to assume that we just need to know how much it will be later. Or does he also see room for a study of its influenceability? 'Cause it's not for me yet. I also see all these challenges to fit in as the population grows, but also that we have to meet that number of people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u88	The reason I stopped here and left room for the question is that I come here to ask the cabinet to work out scenarios. You had one, too. So I am not going to ask that question again, but I am going to fit it in with the things Mr Dijkhoff mentioned, if that is possible. One of these questions is indeed: what does this mean? Can we wear this? When we look at population growth, an open question is simply: what does this mean for the immigration that we can handle? Because we have to make choices about that. And the year 2015 has taught us that immigration can be so high in one year that we have questions for years. So I'd say take a good look at that CBS report. The good thing about that is that it was taken out of the atmosphere of the left or right: a scientist presents what is going to happen. So, in addition to what Mr Dijkhoff has already said, I ask the cabinet: what does this growth mean? And I would like to mention my points. It means more mobility, more cars, more asphalt and more trains. By the way, our trail also exists for 200 years in 2039. How much trace will it take in that year? But above all: how much energy production is needed? And where is it supposed to take place? Windmills? Solar panels? It's gonna be really hard to fit everything in. In addition, there is the demographic point that part of the country is shrinking and part of the country is growing. We will also have to find answers to that. And if that is quantified, then we can also see what a population size is that we think is: yes, we can. And when we look at that, we also need to see what that means for immigration. These are the questions I am asking, and I am more or less adapting them to what I just heard from Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u89	I would find such an exploration of the future interesting, especially since Mr Buma places it in the broader responsibility of the cabinet to think about it. I always pay attention when it comes to immigration, because I am concerned, for example, about the shorter period of time for nursing homes. We're gonna need about 70,000 jobs, and we don't have anyone to do that. I would like to support the appeal to the Cabinet and I would find it very interesting from the Chamber at this APB. But as far as immigration is concerned, as far as I am concerned, temporary migration and temporary employment contracts should also be included: to give people from this continent, but perhaps also from outside, the opportunity to find training and work here in times of ageing, and then perhaps to return to the country where they come from and to contribute to the economy. As far as I am concerned, that should be the counterpart of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u90	I do not want to say no immediately, so I am thinking about how I can answer yes to this question, which is addressed to the cabinet. Mr Pechtold suggests "counters," but that gives the impression that this is a "hanger." My idea is to put a few serious problems on the table as apolitically as possible. There answers can be found about immigration and your immigration things can be found in it. But first we need to see... Or "see for a moment" doesn't add up, because it's not that small. But first we have to see: what is our assessment of what population growth is going to do? What does that mean for a number of areas? Living is a very large aspect. And what does that mean for the policy we have to pursue? I'm moving on to the next topic. This is actually also a point that Mr Pechtold just mentioned, namely health care. That is already a great concern and the biggest concern for many Dutch people. And another demographic factor that we are facing is that the number of older people in the Netherlands is increasing... And that is when Mr Asscher comes forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yeah, I see him, too. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u92	Are you gonna talk about living again later or not? Because that's what I wanted to ask a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u93	Yeah, that's right. I'm gonna talk about living.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u94	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u95	I didn't do it so well that I did it with a table of contents, but I'm going to talk about everything I haven't talked about yet, but I'm going to talk about that. Health care is the main concern of Dutch people. As I have just said, the increase in the number of older people means that the cabinet needs to invest heavily in the care of the elderly. But that doesn't get us there yet. Because care has two faces: everyone wants good and affordable care, but together they have to pay the ever-increasing bill. Until 2018, the risk increased every year. That actually meant that more and more those who were sick had to pay a larger part of the bill, including those who were healthy. That became a kind of reverse solidarity. We have struck a line below this, we have stopped the increase in our own risk and we have also tackled the accumulation of care costs for chronically ill people. For the future of our country, it is not only a matter of concern. It is also a question of where this concern is. That too is a question of solidarity. In the Randstad you often have several specialist hospitals, but outside the Randstad the negative messages follow each other. Deficiencies of general practitioners, recently in Leeuwarden, no night and weekend services of pharmacists, recently in Hoeksche Waard. Shortage of carers, wide in the region. Departments of hospitals being closed down, which we recently heard in Drenthe. This brings us to the demography of the future on another very complicated question, namely: is there good care, but is there good care where you live, near? I ask the Cabinet to clarify what is the norm for good and accessible care in that future. What right do you have in the Netherlands if you live somewhere, on what kind of care? What's the minimum we're gonna deliver? Because with population growth, there's no way everyone can live in the Randstad. We must ensure that the whole of the Netherlands is attractive. The question of care is also determined by the life expectancy and the increase, as I said earlier, of the number of single-person households. These factors have not yet been addressed by our healthcare system. So what does this health card look like, grab it, twenty years when it comes to the distribution of care across the Netherlands? I'll come and live with you. What demographic developments mean for the housing market can be calculated. That does not alter the fact that the crisis of recent years, of the past decade, has left its mark. And if we're not careful, we're going back to the time when kids had their first kids with Mom and Dad in the attic. This is an issue that does not resolve itself. Even if we have overtaken the build-up of the crisis, we are not yet equipped with the demographic future and changes. I want the carpenter, the police officer, the nurse to be able to live at a normal price wherever he or she wants. The reduction in the landlord's tax from the coalition agreement is doubled in this budget, but we need to move forward. There's more. Plans often take time due to slow procedures, legal obstacles or disagreements between provinces and municipalities. Very recently I heard again: the head of Noord-Holland wants to build for its own people, but the province forbids it. Then it's not as crazy as an area starts shrinking. We all know that golden pronunciation of Jan Schaefer from a long time ago. It was found so harsh that it did not end up in the Acts. That is why I cannot repeat it, because it was then removed and perhaps now again. It was recorded as, "You can't live in bullshit." So I repeat that, and I know he actually said other things back then. His offspring is now on the interrupt microphone; his political offspring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u96	We'd leave the gossip out of it! This one doesn't make any sense either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u97	Yeah, we were gonna leave private life out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u98	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u99	I actually thought the timing was right, because "you can't live in bullshit" also applies to a government...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u100	This should be deleted now, as you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'm sure that's going to happen. That's why I dare say it. But a government commissioner doesn't build houses either. I'm fine with it. I agree with Mr Buma that more needs to be done. But we could do a few concrete things right now. It seems that the corporations are going to pay for abolishing the dividend tax, because they are also going to get the interest rate cut. Infrastructure is excluded, corporations are not. Wouldn't it be nice to do something about that? And two, you can certainly see that in the shrinking areas, which you also spoke beautiful words about, there is too little investment capacity. Could we not agree that we are giving the cabinet more room there to ensure that homes can be built? Because there is a housing shortage and people cannot wait until 2030 for an affordable home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u102	Do not underestimate the importance of doubling the reduction of the discount, the landlord's tax. I'm looking for all the measures. I do think that procedures are a bigger problem than money at the moment. Releasing the investment is often the problem. I mentioned the example that is clumsy in the Kop van Noord-Holland province and municipalities. In other places you can see that municipalities are still on an old housing quota that is no longer of this time. As far as I'm concerned, we need to change the legislation there, with that government commissioner. Of course, more money will always be built more. That's good. But I wonder in my mind whether that is at the heart of the problem. I would like to talk about this, but I see in particular the following as a core and also for the Minister as a handle: make sure that you can break procedures so that you can use the money that is available. I'll add one more thing. That is something we agreed on in the coalition agreement. The very rigid interpretation of the provision allowing housing corporations to build in or outside the social sector can be interpreted differently in different regions. I say that cheaply, but it may mean that I would like the Minister to be able to achieve that, too, so that housing corporations can invest more on bottlenecks, often in the place where they still have to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u103	I very much support the latter. I am also pleased that the rental tax discount has doubled. That's a good thing. No misunderstanding about that. But if 400 million euros of extra taxes are removed for these corporations, we limit their space to invest. I hear Mr Buma say: give more space to corporations to build and rebuild in areas where there is shrinkage, where it cannot always be with the strict rules that are now in place. I agree. That's the procedural part. But let us also try to increase the investment space, in any way whatsoever, because we need to build it now. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u104	Let's look for it. I am going to say it now, because perhaps colleagues will ask more questions about extra money. I think that was done a little easily in the introduction of some of them. With this coalition, we spend EUR 15 billion more at the end than at the beginning. That's a lot of money. For education, it's 1.5 billion. For safety, it's $500 million. For the DOD, it's 1.5 billion. So if we want to do things for the future, I think we should be very careful to start with extra money. I thought I'd put that down as an appetizer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u105	I have asked a few questions, but so far I have really not had the impression that it was said: that is a good idea. We are talking about 19 million for MBOs, which is now being cut. Well, well, well, pooh, pooh, pooh. You say: will we give corporations the space to build houses; that is not a very crazy spending. I get the general warning, but let's just cover for a second. We also always cover the proposals we make. We're gonna do it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u106	I couldn't agree more. I heard right. I heard your previous point, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u107	Okay. Watch out!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u109	Already when the CDA was about it for the first time, elderly people were asked to stay home longer. Most of them want to, but not everyone can. Can older people therefore count on the CDA to pay extra attention to building for seniors and making homes age-resistant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u110	The point made by Mr Krol is a very important one. Given the house mix, in my view too few senior homes are being built at the moment. Even life-proof building is still very limited. It is therefore a very important point that I would like to take with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u111	How wonderful that I found a supporter in one of the coalition parties. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u112	It's possible, Mr. Krol. Thank you very much. Then I come to pensions and the labour market. Those are two very big issues. The question of what kind of country we want to be in 2039 also includes the question of what kind of labour market we have. The government's labour market reform is ambitious, but it is also urgently needed. Even in this time of high-conjunction, the stories about exploitation and phony constructions continue to bubbling up. The gap between winners and losers in the labour market is too large. Flex never becomes less flex if fixed does not become less fixed, and vice versa the same applies. Politically, there is an increasing consensus that the labour market needs to be better balanced. But the polder seems more divided than ever, and I regret that. Now Minister Koolmees is taking steps to do so with the polder. In the past, employers and employees often took politics and knew how to get out of it, but now it seems like the polder is dropping out. The future of our pensions is still being discussed in the polder. For the CDA, a broad-based pension agreement is vital for our pensions for 2039: employers, employees, the coalition and, preferably, the opposition. A system that needs to be responsible and future-proof is not something that anyone can quickly score politically at. It's complicated enough, but something that we have to put our shoulders on together. And then I think that the generations after us can judge us all well on that point. I therefore call on employers and employees to surprise us with a fine proposal: a sound, solid and feasible plan. Because I say with a stamp: it must be a system that is really better. I am therefore very curious, for example, how De Nederlandsche Bank will look at this as a supervisor. But if we succeed in building a system that is good for workers and that is good for the future of pensions, for the elderly and young people and the elderly today, I hope that we can all support this. I'll wait it out with interest. Then I come to the business environment. Each euro... Every euro, and here comes the SP!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u113	I understood that Mr Buma was threatening to close his block on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u114	In fact, it's already closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u115	It's already locked down. Look, I'm just in time with my question. I am pleased that the cabinet has repented of paying people with reduced working hours below the minimum wage. My question to Mr Buma is at what time and for what reason he thought it was a good idea to write this in his coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u116	Since the moment it... In fact, you should simply come to Congress with that question as a member of the CDA, because then you could have influenced the electoral programme in which it stood before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u117	I am asking you because I think you are standing here to represent that election programme. We have our own election program. I'm asking because the cabinet told me not to. I think that's wise, because I think it's a matter of civilisation that you're doing a good job for people with disabilities. Now it is true that the foreman of VNO-NCW, Mr De Boer, has taken the trouble to address himself to the cabinet together with me. In that we say: we really need to get back to work on these social workshops. There are no new people in there anymore, but you can see that it is necessary to give people a good place to have a disability. Does Mr Buma agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u118	Was that the letter in which the passage with "please cancel the dividend tax" was issued? Or was that another letter from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u119	That was definitely another letter. This was about the importance of people with disabilities and that it is a question of civilisation to manage the work properly for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u120	The reason we're adjusting this is mainly in the bosom of the cabinet. So I think the cabinet should answer that. The question is, how do I look at it? I'll look at it in a minute. If a measure in its effectiveness does not do what you want and the resistance is great, then you can use that combination for something else. In itself, what we had decided was very bearable for the CDA, because I told you it came out of our election program. But I do say, if there's a system to be created, I'd like to give the cabinet room for that. I do think that we should be able to achieve the goal again, and that objective is to get people to work. It's even better if that comes from a letter with your signature underneath it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mr Buma says: if a measure is not good at its effectiveness and there is a lot of resistance, then you have to reconsider it. I'll keep those words in mind. My specific question. The Secretary of State is now coming up with new plans. This miserable plan is lucky off the track and that's nice. But is Mr. Buma willing to take care of this with me and ask the Secretary of State to take seriously the reopening of the social services in those plans? Do you think, Mr. Buma, it's also a matter of civilisation to settle that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u122	I would prefer to have the Secretary of State make and present this plan first. Then we can act as a Chamber. It is quite something that is going to happen, because the system is indeed going to be different from what we had originally foreseen. What I do give you is that if we change it, the goal still has to be achieved. I shall put that down to the Secretary of State and then we can debate it as far as I am concerned. But I am going to lay down as few conditions as possible in advance, because that only makes it more difficult. Mr. Chairman. That wasn't even my first sentence on the business environment. Every euro that goes to health care, social security or our pensions must be earned somewhere. That is why it is important to strengthen the position of business, especially in view of the great uncertainty surrounding this budget. First of all, small and medium-sized enterprises. Thanks to this coalition, this is improving. For example, corporate tax for SMEs falls from 21% to 16%. We invest more in innovation, especially for SMEs. We are reducing labour costs for small and medium-sized enterprises, as agreed in this budget, and the initial substantial increase in the tax burden for entrepreneurs in box 2 is being reduced. At the same time, with this coalition, we are finally tackling the letterbox companies. This has been discussed for a very long time in this Chamber. That's a long time to ask. The previous coalition didn't dare, but now this coalition introduces a withholding tax on interest and royalties. The expat regime is being shattered and we promote entrepreneurship with equity and limit the tax benefits on debt and the shifting of profits. The proceeds of these measures, which are therefore paid by large companies, are used to abolish the dividend tax. With this measure, we ensure that the largest and most important internationally operating companies in the Netherlands remain. A lot of people and a lot of small and medium-sized companies depend on the whole of large companies and the establishment of all these companies in the Netherlands leads to large investments, with as far as the CDA is concerned only one goal: a lot of jobs for a lot of ordinary Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u123	Here again the argument is used that these large companies themselves pay for abolishing the dividend tax. That's a false argument. That's a black rider's argument. It is actually said that because tax avoidance is now being tackled, people who have been travelling on the tram for free for ten years are worse off, so we give them a gift of 2 billion. It doesn't add up when you look at the companies that this is about. This dividend tax for foreign shareholders is important for two, three international companies. We know them from the scraped-off pieces. Many other large companies have now indicated: it does not need to be. The American Chamber of Commerce, who first lobbied for this, said: it's actually bad for our image. And that's right! It's not just bad for the image of big companies, it's bad for your image, it's bad for the image of politics. This is a measure that is not effective. You always come up with 2 million jobs, but that's bullshit. It may be about 10 jobs, if we're generous about 100 jobs, but they're far too expensive. If you want to do something for the locational climate, be prepared to spend this money differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mr Asscher does not really think that I would agree to such a measure for ten or twenty jobs? Well, then it has to be that somewhere is the estimate that it could be different. And do you know what else is? Now we are faced with the choice of a measure to ensure that a number of very large companies continue to settle in the Netherlands, and perhaps in the future other companies too. As a result, all these SMEs and other companies are still circling around it. I would rather stand here defending a measure that you may be opposed to, rather than being at the gate together later when that company is closed and all we can do is wave at the workers who lose their jobs. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u125	I think you've been fooled by those ten to twenty jobs. Show me the money! Then show me those jobs! Where are those jobs? The countries around us are not doing this. The countries around us mostly have a higher dividend tax than we do. You are frightened by companies that have said: we are leaving because of the dividend tax, but that is nonsense. You are actually letting SMEs, the corporations, the ordinary Dutch people pay for this threat. You've been blackmailed. You've fallen for it, and you've stumbled into it for 10 to 100 jobs. You can't believe me. You're looking at me a little cryptic right now because you believe it is, but the mathematicians we have before think it's bullshit. The Central Planning Bureau thinks it's bullshit. Economists think it's bullshit. Dutch think it's bullshit. You wrote a book about cynicism in politics. You're against that. Then it would also be appropriate for you to take one step back and ask yourself: I had a tendency to quote Louis van Gaal to Mr Dijkhoff whether you are so smart or if we are so stupid. Abolishing that dividend tax is stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u126	We are starting with a measure that was also said by CDAs from 2006 that it would not be sustainable for the future. The fact that I am defending it here is not so crazy in itself, because we have said it for years. Why? Not for those to whom we no longer allow the tax to be paid, but for all those companies that otherwise leave. You can say it's not going so fast, but you know as I do that as we speak companies like Shell and Unilever actually stand for that choice. I see Mr Klaver shaking his head in the background. If you think that such companies will stay and that it doesn't matter, you shouldn't do it. But just think along and imagine it would happen. So what's the consequence? Very large companies leave the Netherlands. For example, Unilever invests 1 billion euros each year in the Netherlands. Unilever just said that. That's not because the Netherlands is so big, but because the head office is here. It's also just said, it can't be true, you know, I'm just reading that 4,200 companies are circling directly around that Unilever alone. Mr Klaver has just said that NXP should stay. Then he does not mention the consequence. The consequence of the claim that NXP should remain is that the expat regime must be maintained, as NXP lives on it. He won't be able to do that. Sometimes a policy that has to be effective is not the easiest one. But I believe in combating cynicism only if politicians standing here do not look at the polls on Sunday and carry out what emerges from them on Monday, but instead look everywhere for the reality behind what is happening. I have absolutely come to the conclusion that if we do not do this, the risk that these companies will go away and that more could go away is so great that we will all be knocked out of our minds when we have to say afterwards: we did not do it. Once before, we did, with ABN AMRO. Then we thought, "Oh, yeah, annoying." When did it become a problem? That was when some entrepreneurs, mostly small entrepreneurs, suddenly noticed that their bank had been replaced by the Deutsche Bank, who simply threw them out so they couldn't get any more loans. Then everyone said, "What happened here?" Responding: yes, ABN AMRO. These things happen, and you can't put them here with a measuring bar. As I said before, politics is not an algorithm. But this is deep down why I'm in politics. That is why I find your arguments rather cynical, because you know that these companies are very important. If you run into a Shell employee, don't say, "Well, your job doesn't matter much, go abroad." No, those people are our people, those workers are our employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u127	A little crazy about this, huh? I'm really glad Unilever stays, fine. But there is no one at all who believes that 1 billion less would now be invested in the United Kingdom, and that money is now all coming to the Netherlands. There's just no one at all who says that. The head office is located in the Netherlands, not London, fine. Saves jobs, sure, fine. But it's not worth 2 billion. Then you used the argument that it is cynical if you do not agree with a measure that is ineffective, which costs 2 billion, which no one believes in and which does not affect those other countries around us. No, that's not cynical, you're cynical. You're gonna take everyone here to measure up. You're giving us the lesson. You're bringing up polls. Sometimes measures are rightly unpopular. This is one. Move him in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u128	That is the total Umwertung aller Werete, if the polls are indeed really leading the measure. I don't think that's possible. One thing I'd like to say about it. That's about the amount. In this respect, too, I think we should put things side by side. I have a different picture than you do. I can, but I think I have a responsibility the way I am standing here. Of course, once again, we can all follow the polls, but when I see, read and hear what is going on, I note that the risk is more than real that these companies are going to go. That's a risk that's my frame of mind. If they go ahead, and again, that chance is simply very great, what you always forget, we also lost EUR 1 billion of that dividend tax. You can't just tell the Netherlands that you have 2 billion, because you don't have it at all. We can say "Buma, how cynical" but I find that cynical: constantly spending money there isn't, on care, on education, on security, on defense, while you don't tell people that you also need companies to make that money. You need small businesses and sometimes big ones. For that, you have to make a number of choices in a global market of companies that attract shares from all over the world. On the day itself, those choices may not be fun, perhaps even unpopular, but with such choices the MP does his job well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u129	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u130	I'm really getting a little pissed off about this. You first use a kind of masochism argument: it's unpopular and yet I do it, so I'm a responsible politician. That's bullshit, isn't it? That's bullshit. It's just a bad measure. It's a really bad plan to do this. Then you say: you spend money that isn't there. No, you're giving away money that's still there, EUR 2 billion. I'm not making that up. That's what the mathematicians say. That is why taxes need to be increased elsewhere. That's real money. It's from the Dutch. You're giving it to foreign shareholders when it's needed now. I would like to talk to whether it should be addressed to SMEs, whether we can give it to police officers, whether we can improve care in the shrinking regions; all real targets that we know are impacting. But it's real money and you're giving it away, as a right-wing politician. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u131	In the end, the only key question for me is: how do we ensure that, over the twenty years after what I am talking about, we can tell the children that we have now taken the decision to keep an economy in which they will have a future? It's gonna take investments. I see this as an investment. Again, you mention 2 billion. So that's $1 billion you're promising people that there isn't. But apart from that amount and regardless of the difference of opinion: if we in the Chamber really only look at whether the measure is popular and no longer looking for the background to take it, then we can make many more wrong decisions. For example, when I think of the Defense Department, it's not always popular either, but it has to be. When I think of this measure: it has to be. If we don't... It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. In that sense it is not a must; we can make another choice. But then we are partly responsible for the departure of companies, which we have seen before and which we were very sorry about at the time. I say to this Chamber, whether you are left, right or center: think very carefully before you make that easy choice, because here, unfortunately, the difficult choice is the better one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u132	How many jobs have been lost at Unilever in the UK due to the relocation of its head office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u133	Not a single one, because that headquarters hasn't been moved yet. So we don't know how that goes at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u134	Yes, it's been announced. Unilever has said how many jobs that will cost. How many are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u135	This is typically one of those... I'm going to answer, but this is kind of the Clover method to ask a few questions. You ask questions about how much. There's been a press release about 50 or so. That's a bit similar, I think that's why I think it's so dangerous to follow this reasoning with what Peugeot did when the Opel took over very recently. Opel would be taken over. "No impact on employment" was the press release. Less than a year later: the whole of Rüsselheim, the entire research lab that is there, the high-quality companies away, because that is cheaper. So I can't say that it is on the basis of Unilever's press release about 50 jobs. You and I know that there is a domino effect behind it, because especially R&D and that kind of investment that we want in the Netherlands will eventually disappear. Can I prove it? No. Am I making an assessment? Yes. Do I dare to take the risk and do it? Yes. Do I dare to take the risk and not do it? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u136	The question is very relevant. Mr Buma, and indeed the cabinet and other coalition parties, do so, as if an entire company were to disappear if a head office disappeared. That's not true. Companies always make trade-offs, even if the head office stays here: where do we put our R&D, where does the head office come in, where do other departments come in? Decisions are constantly being made which are partly dependent on the head office and partly on other matters, such as the investment climate when it comes to R&D. We might be able to look at improvements there. So the question remains... You can give $2 billion now because you think Unilever will stay. But in recent years, we have constantly seen companies asking for more tax cuts, for more benefits. When's it gonna end? It's a race to the bottom, because these companies are very mobile. They can go anywhere in Europe. They continue to ask for a tax discount and the Netherlands continues to give it. Where's it gonna end? How far do you want to go, Mr. Buma, to keep companies in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u137	Just now, Mr. Klaver said that we have to do everything we can to keep NXP. That is no longer the case, because what are these companies asking for? All tax breaks, and we don't do that. It's two-and-a-half. Either you choose to keep companies or you opt for different policies. I choose to keep it. If I take another look at the consequences of pulling out of headquarters, you're right: Pernis isn't close the day the head office disappears. But here too, you learn from what happened in the past. Organon has been taken over by an American company. That would have no consequences. The first thing that happens in Oss is the whole research facility gone. Siemens, not a Dutch company, must close a production facility. Three possibilities and which ones do they choose? The Dutch. So if you're talking about finding an economic climate for the future, you can't put it past the measuring bar of today. Then you have to look in the future. That is also why the CPB does not say that it is a nonsense measure, but rightly says that it cannot assess its effects. No, because we don't know 100% of what's happening. Then I say again: we're not an algorithm, we're politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u138	The question remains how far you are willing to go when it comes to tax cuts, so that the basis is eroded as to how many companies still contribute to all of our public services. I was talking about NXP, because the cabinet has rightly indicated in the government agreement that we must beware of the strategic interests of the Dutch business community and that you must be able to stop hostile takeovers. If China wants to invest in our companies, that is not always what I would almost like to say: almost never really wise. Measures have been announced for this and I have not seen anything about it from the cabinet. You can also take measures that don't require you to give away $2 billion and you can still protect our companies. Why haven't these measures been taken yet? Why didn't I hear about that in your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u139	The measures for the protection of Dutch companies are being taken. That's what the Cabinet's gonna do. The interesting thing is that this discussion is so complicated that one of those from the companies or the connoisseurs who are staged by a number of opponents of abolishing the dividend tax is someone who says: you have to get rid of dividend taxes, it is much better to remove the protection structures from companies. We don't want to. In short, it is not so left or right, forward or backward what kind of decision you make about the dividend tax. It's just one thing, and that's really the essence of me. If we have to invest in companies for the future, the question is whether we want to take this measure. About NXP, you just said that you want to move heaven and earth for it, do anything to keep it here. With me there are limits. If we have the opportunity to make such a difference with such a measure, yes, I dare. And once again, you have to assess every measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u140	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u141	You are allowing yourself quite a bit of literary freedom, and that is given to you in how you interpret my words. I ask you a very specific question. We talk about this dividend tax all the time. The arguments why we should keep them are constantly changing. One of the important things is that we want to stop hostile takeovers. I state that the Cabinet has plans for that. I don't read about it in the Economic Affairs budget, I don't read about it in the Millions note, and I don't hear anyone from the coalition parties about it. That bill should have been sent to the Chamber a long time ago. I asked the cabinet if I could expect it this autumn, and I hope that the CDA will support us in that. I want to see that bill. We need to protect our businesses. Not by giving away 2 billion: God bless the grip and let's hope it works. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u142	The point is correct, therefore, I mentioned that point earlier in response to Mr Klaver's comment that the dividend tax is one of the factors to settle somewhere. But many protection structures also mean that people will settle less quickly, because they do not want to sit there. In short, your story doesn't add up. It's not like you're doing dividend taxes or protection structures. These are two things next to each other, in which one foreign takeover occurs and the other nevertheless ensures that the big companies can stay here. You can describe all the big companies as negative as you like, but together we stand for the jobs of all those people who depend on them. And that's not ten, but that's a lot more. The only thing I'm giving you is that I can't prove it today. It won't happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u143	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u144	But in ten or twenty years, we'll see the consequences, and then we'll be knocked over if we've done it wrong. And that's what we stand for in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was also the business environment component for me. I have spoken about SMEs, about the handling of letterbox companies and about large companies. Then I come to a subject that was of great importance in the formation of the coalition, which fortunately also comes back to the work of the cabinet, and that is: how do we build to 2039, to name that year again, towards a better society? Because a budget is always very much about figures, but ultimately, a country is the area where we live together. Can we build a better society to 2039? Yeah, you can. But it's not gonna happen by itself. For example, with the introduction of social service, we are finally starting a different kind of society. One where not individualism and self-interest are central, but care for each other and commitment to the collective. After the start of the first pilots, the CDA looks forward to the further proposals of State Secretary Blokhuis. After all, a social service in the care sector, in sports associations, in the defence sector, is extremely valuable. And it is not uncommon for a social service to become a stepping stone for a job in, for example, a public sector that is now facing shortages. I believe that at the moment the advantage of this is not seen sufficiently. Especially in the case of core tasks such as care, as Defence and also as education, where there is currently a shortage of people, this can be a very valuable additional argument for a social service. I would therefore urge the Prime Minister to consider the possibility of moving on to a permanent job in this sector when assessing projects to be delivered. Mr President, a strong society must also be a safe society. Commonly accepted behavior is not always the norm anymore. Too many people feel uncomfortable, intimidated, even threatened on the street. In doing so, it is important that politics draws the lines of what can and cannot be done. We must give the police, the judiciary and the rulers the means to carry out their duties. This applies, for example, to the persistent problem of undermining. The necessary legislation must quickly go to the Chamber, the penalty for it, and we must also ensure that local administrators have more tools to keep what is not right from their congregation. Highly threatening are the hate preachers, who try to poison our young people with violence glorification and turn them against society. That is not freedom of speech, but that is the deliberate erosion of it. How far has the cabinet now gone with the doubling of the penalty rate for hate-stowing, one of the agreements in the coalition agreement? And what about the approach and the transparency of money flows from non-free countries? Mr President, action against what is not allowed also means protecting what is vulnerable. That is, for example, that in our country you can freely confess your faith or belief, whatever it is. We must therefore draw a line in the sand against those politicians who want to ban the Koran or who want to close all mosques. If we both know how to do it, if we tackle what is wrong on the one hand, and allow on the other hand what may be free, I see a future for our society that is united with more pride than it is split. We are proud of our national identity and our history that we share together. And, I hope, we are again with soccer players who see orange as their color. Mr President, this cabinet is the greenest ever. I come now to the climate, that may be clear. The spirit of energy we stand for requires a great deal of support in society. Without that support, there is a real risk that society will drop out and put its heels in the sand. Then policy breaks down into an objective on paper. And that, that's what we need to prevent. There is a risk of a division between the group that benefits from all the possibilities of globalisation and that sees greening as an opportunity, a chance of other choices, and the group of ordinary, hard-working people who threaten to feel the burden in particular. It is not possible for the first group to set the standards and the second to comply with them. That, if we do not pay attention, threatens to become separate worlds. I see Mr. Klaver standing by the interrupting microphone. Shall I continue, Madam President? Or do I have to interrupt this first...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u147	I suggest you finish your point on climate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u148	That's okay. Mr President, I know that this concern lives with more parties. I heard Mrs Marijnissen talk about the importance of what she calls 'climate justice'. And the PvdA also discussed the risk of climate winners and climate losers in a debate. Then it doesn't help if from the climate tables, where one is discussing with one another how we can proceed, in the Dutch cameras sounds that the gas price can go up a bit further. That was my point this summer. Because if you as a family are going to pay more for your gas, on top of all the increases that we are already making and on top of the agreed increases that are already coming towards everyone, then you don't just charge money for solar panels out of the top hat. That's my point: macro is correct, but is the micro also correct? The same goes for the statement that you can take a higher mortgage to pay a heat pump. Sure, if you have the money, you can. But for a lot of people, that scares me: do I have to take a higher mortgage for a heat pump? Also, Minister Wiebes van EZK's statement that it costs only 0.5% of our combined income, while we also spend so much money on unhealthy things, is true on paper, but is not immediately reassuring for the average family. In short, if the ordinary, hardworking Dutchman becomes the child of the green account or has the feeling of becoming, then we risk losing the support for that great change that is needed. A number of questions on this point. What is the situation in this respect with regard to the agreement agreed in the government agreement to involve the environment more in the construction of windmills, in particular in order to benefit the environment? That's an agreement in the coalition agreement. After all, it really matters if that windmill near you gets something for you too. An example of how it is possible is the choice in the government agreement for the agricultural sector. We are limiting the size of the pig population, with prospects for the sector and with support for young farmers, who generally handle the environment extremely carefully. For they provide us with food, they protect our landscape, and we must offer them a common perspective. Plans must also have effect. That is a very important point, I think. We shouldn't just talk about paper. If a reduction in emissions here only leads to more emissions elsewhere, it is pointless. That is why we have also agreed that the Netherlands should not make all entrances in Europe. As the coalition agreement states, we are trying to get Europe along, because only then will it make sense. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what is the state of European commitment? We know his fine speech in Strasbourg, with a view of 55%. But which colleagues did he speak specifically? What is their commitment in concrete terms? Because in the end, we have to deliver. In 2020, Europe, but I can assume that countries, like the Netherlands, are also looking at where we are going. What, for example, will Germany do? Germany has a major problem because it has closed down the nuclear power stations. That seemed to be a very good measure, but at the moment the brown coal plants are reopening. Belgium also has a major problem with nuclear power plants aging. What are they gonna do? In short, which country does the Prime Minister now have the impression that he is prepared to pursue that 49% or, even better, that 55%? Are there any countries that have indicated that they are going for other purposes and that they are not participating? And what is the European ambition in the end? It was officially 40%. Is the Commission going to increase it and, if so, where? Because we will gradually have to look at what this European goal is going to be. If we have the answer to these questions, we can see whether that 49% or that 55% is indeed an objective that we should pursue with Europe or with a leading group, whether we should push other countries even further, or whether the other part is coming and a number of countries say: we want to go very far, but not this. That is what we are going to stand for, but the goal is now: 49, rather 55, and to get Europe with it. My question is, how far is that going? These were the comments, Madam President, which I wanted to make myself, without interruptions, on the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u149	It sounds like music to me: 49% it is and 55% it should actually be. Compliments for that. But when it comes to justice and ensuring that citizens do not have to pay for it, I have already asked a few times now. Mr Buma says that we should not charge citizens with a higher energy bill. This cabinet raises the citizens' energy bill. It has no effect on CO emissions. Why does he choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u150	I have heard you mention this particular point a few times over the last few days. This concerns, in particular, the refund of taxes. That's a purchasing power measure, more or less wrapped in the energy bill. And what this coalition has chosen with great support from the CDA is not to do purchasing power repair through accounts, but through a general tax reduction, which does not refer to the greening debate. I know that we are indeed going to increase that account. That's what we agreed. The question is whether, after that, with the plans we are making now, we will continue and continue. My point is that that is not wise, because you already see that a lot of people are threatening to drop out. If we do things differently and find something that people can live with together, if we manage to limit the uprising that is slowly taking place against windmills and solar panels, then we can get a lot further. If we don't, you and I will run into a wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u151	I agree, but it seems as if Mr Buma is bricking that wall himself. Because this cabinet increases the energy bill. Then you can say: it was a purchasing power measure. Yes, it is. Do you know why it was in there? When the energy bill goes up, it goes down proportionally at the lowest incomes. We can't solve that entirely through taxes. That's why we chose to build this discount into it. That way you make sure that people can continue to pay their energy bills. I just charged it in my contribution. In GroenLinks' plans, the energy bill of an average household is €200 lower, while we achieve the maximum goal we need to achieve Paris. I would like to ask Mr Buma: if he really is serious, I have heard him very often in the media about the support for climate change and I would like to see if there is an alternative way to deal with increasing the energy tax for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u152	I actually want to say two things about that. I think this is typical of the way Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u153	Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u154	Clover is my name.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u155	...Mr. Clover is busy. Purchasing and greening are two things. This measure is independent of greening. That's why I'm not calling him here. That was a purchasing power measure, wrapped in the energy bill. He's got nothing to do with greening, so I'm gonna leave him out of it. Next, Mr Klaver says: do not do this tax. I'll point him out. This measure amounts to 50 million. His party told him that not to say out loud to all citizens: there will be an additional EUR 2 billion on packaging. He wants an extra two billion euros. For your existing home, you would have to pay an extra 1.5 billion euros in taxes. Why? Because there's a charge per square meter. It's also people who pay for it. If you have a car, you're going to have 8 billion extra taxes. So Mr Klaver can all tell stories about purchasing power and I know what, but there is only one champion here in raising taxes, and that is GroenLinks. The fact that Mr Klaver then talks about this measure, which has nothing to do with greening, is almost too crazy for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u156	I'm just getting really excited about the 2017 election campaign. I still have good memories of that, too. It's just gonna come all the way back. Do you know what one big difference is? GroenLinks indeed raises all kinds of taxes. That's right. But we write them down in our election program. So people can just watch what we do. That's a big difference with some parties, like yours in this Chamber. You're too easily ignoring the point about a higher energy bill. The energy bill is rising under this cabinet, under your responsibility. You're trying to separate all that. That's policy language. People see their energy bill getting higher. Just when you're talking about creating a basis for support, the energy bill for normal families shouldn't go up at the moment, just go down or at least stay the same. Why? Because the energy transition is going to bring with it enough already. We have to make sure that the big polluters go along with it and that it is not paid by families. That you are now raising the energy bill, I'm sorry, that is contrary to the fine words and the harsh words you speak about the climate tables. Those climate tables, which are negotiating, do so at the request of this cabinet, which you are part of. You should put a stop to this House and say: the citizens' energy bill is not going to go up next year. We do not need these climate tables; we can arrange that here, you and I, if there are a few others involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u157	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u158	All I know is that GroenLinks then comes back with all kinds of different taxes, like a packaging tax, which have to go up. You don't tell the whole story about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u159	Now for the energy load.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u160	You say yes, but it's what you do. Well, that's the difference, isn't it? You mention "doing" in the opposition banks. If you're in, it's gonna be different. Then you're gonna do it together and it's not always gonna be your election program anymore. That's what happens that wasn't in your election program. And yet, despite all that, I'm glad I'm taking that responsibility, because I know that when it comes to the future of the Netherlands, you'd be better off than standing aside and talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u161	I'm really standing here watching a Viennese waltz. It's going around the corner. I had a very simple question. It was really super simple. The energy bill is going to rise through this cabinet. Is Mr Buma going to do something about that? We come up with proposals. Are you going to support our proposals to ensure that the energy bill does not go up? Super simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u162	For that, we need to see what comes out of those tables. My big point isn't that the account went up. That's what I said. 'Cause that's true. I even have my autograph underneath it. That's government. The question is, in large measure, how do we proceed? If you don't want that question answered by me... This is about something much broader: this is about how we support the future. I am concerned about the fact that a climate table, which I believe should be negotiated with one another, is itself seeking out the media in a way that I think is only going to startle people. Then we're going to look at all the measures, but first I want to see something from those tables. I want that processed, and I want to see what it takes. It is also very important that I want to know what other countries are doing, because there is absolutely no point in an alleyway. Then we are all going to weigh up what the various measures have to do. You can take one out and say it's all up to GroenLinks. I see it does a lot more than that. For me, it's about the complete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u163	The last comment and then I will go to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr Buma was quite eager to answer right away. The whole point is that these climate tables aren't ready yet. They are proposals and there is still a policy to be developed. I hope that we, as politicians, will make something of that, because there is still a lot to be done, especially when it comes to industry. It's not about those tables. It's about the policy of this cabinet. You can't say with dry eyes that citizens shouldn't start paying the bills and then be responsible for increasing the energy bill. That doesn't really touch either side, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u165	But I'm not saying either. I know that the bill is paid by the citizens, partly by this cabinet and partly by this payment. What matters now is that I am going to put it down before you again, and that is that we are in the discussion for a sort of next round. We all feel that more is going to happen. That's a very good chance, but we don't know that. We have agreements in the coalition agreement, but more is likely to happen. Then I want everything to be carefully weighed up. When I see in the summer that a first measure is being thrown into the public for a while and that we are all going to have the question of whether it will be greening, I think that is extremely unwise. In fact, this ended in an interruption by Mr Klaver in which he actually said what I have been saying since the beginning: then those climate tables should shut up for a while and not tell them what they want. Come up with the plan, let that pass through, see what the effects of the different measures are on CO emissions, costs and so on, and then decide. Then we have the whole overview and then we know what the costs are for the citizens, but my warning is that, as I saw it this summer, I did not have the idea that climate tables were working for the citizens. Citizens see very well that something needs to change, but they also want to know that they can go through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u166	My question is about sustainable, future-proof agriculture. Thanks to the policy of the CDA in recent decades, five to seven farmers have to stop their family business every day. That leaves megalomania which are run by a few of those big cowboys, who are hitting the countryside. Tubbergen is a very good example of this; that is a very unsafe municipality. I heard Mr Buma say that we should give young farmers a chance and that young farmers are generally environmentally conscious. Does Mr Buma not agree with me that we can make demands for the EUR 75 million grant that is exempt for young farmers, so that this subsidy should apply to young farmers who are going to be future-proof and sustainable farmers? That means: organic, ecological farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u167	I have to tell you that I think the Minister should look at all the conditions. The minister comes with that and he has to weigh it. So, unlike that fund, I'm not gonna give you what's in it right now. Several things will play a role in this. I very much believe in the idea that by encouraging young farmers, sustainability can get an extra boost, because very often it is so much so in my own in-laws that when the new generation starts farmers, new measures will also be taken. But you'd have to have the opportunity. I try to give you what I find complicated in the discussion with the Party for Animals: these are people who work hard, who know damn well that the landscape is their future and do what they can, but who give us the food on our plate. If we constantly say to them, 'These are the words you constantly use 'crime', I think that is serious. Together we have this task of sustainability. This is one of the things that I think is the beauty of this cabinet where there are no two compromises in the sense of 'it will all be' but where we are doing it together. We are giving this agricultural sector a future and we say to them: that future is, especially when it comes to pig farming, a future with clean-up. I would also say to you: appreciate that happens. You, too, can contribute to this, because the sector must stand up for our future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u168	It is very good that pig farming is being cleaned up to a small extent. It is also important that we move towards a reduction in the livestock stock. The Council for the Environment also says that, and that is not a Party for the Animals-Adopt. This also means that we must provide young farmers with a framework within which they can become farmers for the future. Of course, this starts with a subsidy of EUR 75 million, which we all pay, which enables us to demand the quality of our food, the quality of the environment and the quality of life in rural areas, where more and more people are experiencing problems from fine dust, ammonia, smell and so on. So I would once again ask Mr Buma, yet from a party that, like the Animal Party, is always engaged in agriculture, to present a vision and to indicate: Cabinet, this way we go, if we choose climate and choose animal friendliness, then we also give our young farmers a framework within which they will have all the space to shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u169	Again, my point remains that it is much better for the cabinet to do its job. I know this minister as someone who certainly wants to keep that balance forever. We see a proposal and see what it means. I think that's the most pure thing I can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u170	I do not expect such a weak answer from someone who starts with big words about the future of the Netherlands in 2039. Then I expect him to represent the future of agriculture from the point of view of the CDA. As I am now listening to the answer, I understand that it really simply means that the EUR 75 million can also be spent on mega stables with a young farmer at the head. I hope that Mr Buma can at least rule out the fact that the EUR 75 million will be given to young farmers and then turn it into pig flats or chicken factories.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u171	Again, it's a repeat. The minister has to do her job. I hope that will come soon and then we will discuss it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u172	I think there is a vision for the future when it comes to agriculture. It's called "Cringing Agriculture." So maybe that'll reassure us for the ultimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u173	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u174	I have a question, perhaps more to reassure myself and perhaps a few other people. I think the questions that Mr Buma is asking about the energy transition are very real. He has expressed them before, in an interview with Elsevier, in which he has said that it must be just, that he is concerned about where the bill comes from and who can be taken into account. That's very much about how: how do we get to Paris? At the same time, it is at least as important to say that we must go to Paris. I believe the Prime Minister made the comparison with reconstruction yesterday. It was pretty big. You can call them the Delta Works. It was obvious that something had to happen, that we were going that way. And it was how, of course, constantly a subject of discussion. But especially for those who have a high regard for stewardship, it is also important to stress every time, in addition to the real concerns that I share, that we are going to Paris, because it is going to be going to Paris, and then I have to use CDA jargon for a while about an earth that we want to pass on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u175	In my view, that is, as it were, the common base in the whole of climate policy. I would point out that if we want to do this effectively, we really need Europe or some of it. We really need to avoid this, because that can happen if the countries around us are going to say: well, give my portion to Fikkie. You know, the point is that too many countries are still on that line. There are also countries that are very happy about their climate forecast and they are talking about the 40%. That is why my question to the cabinet is also about the world to be won. I think that's a big task. We are all talking about these national measures now, but if we succeed, for example, in doing aviation tax, kerosene tax or CO European, then we talk about such a totally different world than when we do it alone. So that's what I think is the big assignment. Really make sure we can do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u176	Agreed. All entrance is indeed not an option. This is indeed a global problem and we will certainly have to join forces at European level, and in it we may need to form a European leading group and write it all down. And at the same time, as I see it in Minister Wiebes' work, it offers a lot of opportunities and many opportunities for innovation. When it comes to the built environment and you see what builders change, how entrepreneurs jump in there, how they see opportunities and how we can share our technology from Delft, Twente, Wageningen and other places around the world, it's important that we get to Paris again. Sure, it's about how every time. But it is also a route with lots of opportunities and lots of possibilities. That is something we need to say out loud, in addition to the real questions that Mr Buma has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u177	This is a very justified point from Mr Segers, because in my view the core of what we need to agree on, and essentially from what the coalition agreement begins, is to offer those opportunities in it. This is about innovation and the large amount of money that we have put aside for innovation and sustainability, about Invest-NL that also has a sustainable reason, and about reducing the landlord's tax by sustainable investment. That's why I'm so sorry that this summer I only hear things where people say, "Is that what it is?" This while it's becoming something completely different. This can become a project that helps the Netherlands first on sustainability. And not only that: innovation and industry of the future. I want to prevent us from going out of the way of "the bill being paid very much and it's all annoying." We don't have to, but this is when we have to make that difference. Not without reason have I made the comparison with immigration and the discussion in the 1990s. For a long time that was unspeakable and we all had to do it, until a lot of people got angry, but then it was too late. I think we can do this together. I am convinced that the coalition agreement also provides that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u178	Agreed. Above all, it is also a question of financing. So yes, we have costs and then the question is how we do it justly and with support, and how we do it so that we keep the world clean for our children and grandchildren and work towards a sustainable future. I think this offers a lot of opportunities. If we do have that dot on the horizon and want to get to Paris, then it must also be a very exciting story, from which a lot of innovation and lots of beauty comes. I think that's the joint task we both feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u179	Very good. I'm going to book the Thalys!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u180	I, too, was alert to what his impact would be today just this summer after Mr Buma's interview. I notice today that he points out two points that he says we should be careful not to lose groups. Internationally, North-West Europe, in the sense that we do not anticipate and other countries do not participate. And in the Netherlands, if we don't make sure that people also understand that this is an opportunity, that this is innovation, that this is a new economy and that it is also, in the end, just a new economy, and that is one of the most important reasons for me: the survival of the earth is making it a bit safer again. I have just heard Mr Buma defend a difficult measure on an earlier subject so incredibly motivated. I hope to retain the enthusiasm with him on this subject as well. When we look at other European countries, they will think: gosh, those Dutch, that doesn't work either. Then you pull each other down and you get some sort of "after you" behavior. But I am also talking about the Netherlands itself. And I thought that was a bit of the danger that Mr Klaver drew us to, namely by saying that people are not going to notice it at all. Of course, from every transition people will notice something. You can say: you put it down to business. Yeah, but if you do that too much, they'll charge it back to consumers before you know it. This transition will be complicated, but I hope that the enthusiasm and enthusiasm of Mr Buma's difficult measure will be found with him in order to defend this climate agreement as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u181	As a coalition partner, you say thank you for this interruption. With the others I say: what kind of interruption is this? That's pretty much the difference, but I'll answer them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u182	That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u183	Where my point is now, here's the thing. The crazy thing about this is that making decisions isn't even that hard. As far as everyone's communication is concerned, "we're going to charge business more costs": I'm also the hero if I do that now. I only know what you are saying, and you are right to say that these costs will be passed on in due course. So it's not that easy at all and that's why I sound different. The other measure is now under discussion. But I know we'll be glad we did it later. On this sustainability measure, I say: now pay attention so that we are later glad that we have done the right thing and can do it together. But the objective is not controversial, as far as I am concerned: a very big climate change problem that we in this world need to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u184	I would also like to thank the honourable Member for this answer, which once again encourages me to continue with him in all seriousness. If there is an agreement in the coalition agreement that is already being worked out so prominently and which I believe is connected and a real vision of the future, then it is not just a climate law. I am extremely proud that this has been done with seven parties, but that is paper. But if there really is an agreement coming up soon and parties like CDA, D66 and others in this house are able to reach each other... I think that could be today's important message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u185	That wasn't a question. You don't have to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u186	Could I have another glass of water, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u187	We'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u188	Now that Mr Buma has a dry mouth, I can ask a question. He says that the Netherlands should not operate unilaterally and that we should look closely at what is happening in the rest of the world. We hear that a lot. I have read with great interest the Macro Economic Exploration, the Cord. On page 29 there is a very nice box, which explains the effect of one-sided performance. This shows that it's a good thing, that it's an advantage if you're ahead of the troops as a country, if you're afraid to walk in front of the troops. Does Mr Buma agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u189	I have to say quite frankly, it really depends on what and how you're ahead of yourself. The high risk is also mentioned. That is that we are reducing CO here, which ultimately means that the same amount of CO or more is produced in another country. That is the impossible thing to do when looking at a situation in which the Netherlands applies a CO reduction within its borders. That means we have to do it together. That's why I'm nudging it. I also call it a nuance because, as I have just said, you are much better at taking cross-border measures towards industry, towards flying, towards mobility than any country does anything else. I signed for a flight tax, but I also know that we have had it before, and that it is not so effective. I want effective measures with as many countries as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u190	That's what I want. I just want to make sure that Mr Buma is not against us taking unilateral action. What the CPB is finally showing me is what I think is a very good addition: it is that taking action, setting firmer standards for business, actually leads to competitive advantages, which is very good for our business. There is therefore a very important reason to be in favour of Europe. In the end, everyone in Europe and in the world must get to Paris. So we're all going to that 49% and eventually 55% by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u191	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u192	But if we are sooner and dare to operate before, we have a competitive advantage. Can we ensure that the Netherlands is at the forefront of this and that we are the first to take the sustainability measures needed for our business? This seems very strict at first, but ultimately they will benefit from it and we will have a competitive advantage over the rest. I'd like to do that together. Is Mr Buma prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u193	My point is that, in the end, it will prove to be very unwise. There's more than this table. Like I said before, where do you lead and where do you not lead? There is a risk of setting higher targets. We've talked about pulling out headquarters before. I have mentioned the example before, and I call it again: Hoogovens. You have included an increase of EUR 2 billion in the tax for large consumers in your election programme. It's one push of a button in India, and Hoogovens is gone. Then you say: that is good, because we will have less CO emissions. I'll say 10,000 jobs away. But really, the automotive industry needs that aluminum. That's why I call this again: it's not that easy and beautiful of "hup, high goals, and we're walking in front." There are many more factors, and if we don't take them all, then eventually we might not have anything at all, because then we'll run into a wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u194	On page 29 of the draft budget, there is no table but just text. There's a very nice description of how it works. I'd say, Mr. Buma, take another look at it. It is not someone from GroenLinks or from another green club who says: maybe we should take the lead. It's just one of our mathematicians, the most important one here in the Netherlands. He says it's actually not as bad as the competitive disadvantage of leading the way. But I'll give you this. It's about size. You can shoot through it, too. Indeed, it can also lead to companies leaving. The only thing I'd like to hear from you is this. That's what I'm looking for. There's got to be a balance. What are you doing together in Europe and what shouldn't you be ahead of? But let us also acknowledge with each other that sometimes it can be very good to be the first to take action. That creates a modern economy. That's gonna get us ahead of ourselves...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u196	... and that will ensure that we meet the climate objectives and create jobs for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u197	So the question is: what is the price you pay for it socially? You have to take that into account. Is it okay? That's actually what's important to me when you move on. Shouldn't we make sure we can all wear it? And if it turns out that the countries around us are not participating, I think that is a very curious figure. The second point is that we can set these targets on paper, but we need to achieve even more in the implementation of phase 1. We have so much to do. Then I'd rather do the right thing in real life than just on paper and only in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u198	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Let me now turn to Europe and the Brexit. In six months' time, the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. How will the British look back on that decision in 20 years' time? Every day it becomes clear that the British are going to pay a high bill, and so are we. The final outcome of the Brexit may be the opposite of what is ever meant: not less bureaucracy, but more. Not more NHS, but less. Because of this Brexit people suddenly see that much of what we take for granted has been achieved thanks to and not in spite of the European Union. Dutch politicians who are still advocating a nexit have strayed far from reality. However, there is serious discontent about Europe. We have had a banking crisis, a financial crisis, a debt crisis and a migration crisis. There are new challenges: China, Russia, Turkey. Terrorism and the fight against climate change, and above all a European objective. I also mention the global cyber threat. These uncertainties require a stronger Europe, but also a different one. A Europe that is more than a free market. A safe home, where people can live in peace with each other. How do we build this Europe for the future? Not as a federation, we know that by now. With 27 Member States you cannot make a single sausage. But we're gonna have to find it normal to work with groups at different rates. Smaller groups within the EU, which may not be the ones left behind. The climate-head group is one of those. But it can also be done in the field of defence. In fact, the euro group has been such a leading group. In the end, it is important to me that we cannot have a Europe that must always wait for the weakest link. The WRR has written a very interesting report on this. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that. That doesn't have to happen immediately in its completeness the day after tomorrow... Oh, I hear it does happen in fullness. That's all the better. But think also of a country such as Italy with its weak financial discipline, the risky banking sector, and I must say that it is increasingly not a very constructive attitude towards other countries. Look at what was very recent news from Italy, not to mention how people deal with the free speech; the newspapers in this case. Does the Prime Minister share the CDA's view regarding Italy's financial position that Italy should first clean up its own financial mess and comply with international agreements before the Netherlands starts sharing financial risks with Italy? One more thing about the defense cooperation. Mr van der Staaij asked me to do so. That defence cooperation does not mean that we can spend less. It's not like that's gonna make it all cheaper. It's gonna be a little more efficient, but we're gonna have to get that 2% eventually. I have already put Mr Van der Staaij's question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about demographics, we must also talk about how population growth is achieved. This is, to a large extent, through immigration. The point has been made earlier in an interruption of my contribution. Immigration is difficult to predict: think of the year 2015. But we know one thing: migratory pressure will only increase in the coming years. Africa's population is increasing from over 1 billion now to some 2.5 billion people around 2050. Is there food for those people and work? Is there a future for these people? Or is Europe the country of promise for these people? For years now, the Netherlands has been pursuing a strict migration policy. It is not just through regular channels that you have a residence permit, but perhaps that is why all those who are now crossing from Africa are immediately using the asylum procedure. They're applying for asylum right away. This also means that the asylum procedure, with all its uncertainties, plays a role in the question of how we look at the demography of the future. The key question is: how can we restore asylum policy to the humanitarian task that it must be, namely to provide security to those who individually flee from persecution? This brings us to an old dilemma, because many Dutch people think that a restrictive asylum policy is necessary. At the same time, we want to catch the individual refugee with a face with us. All we have to do is look at the unrest about Lili and Howick last weekend. The standard answer to this dilemma is always: shorter procedures. It went around here for a while, too. I have to say something about that, because shorter procedures were already promised by Job Cohen in 1998. Sometimes these shorter procedures are also an alibi to discuss the real, more complex, more painful causes, because the problem is not the length of the procedure, in so far as it is a legal procedure. Very often the asylum seeker gets the results very quickly after he has arrived in the Netherlands. No, there are other factors and these factors have proved to be much more difficult to address since then: the undocumented entry at the start, not the length but the accumulation of procedures on the road and the impossibility to effect expansion at the end. Those three things require the overthrow of what is sacred in our homes, because why is this change so difficult? That is because international standards ultimately determine our national margins, for example the UN Refugee Convention, concluded in 1950 for a totally different world than today. Meanwhile, almost all developed countries have signed the treaty, but you have two types of treaty states. You have countries like the Netherlands, which apply it, but there are also a lot of countries that say they agree but do nothing with it. Then there is the question of what is still the normative and moral effect of the Convention. It is also the reason why the CDA, and also the European People's Party in which the CDA is involved, has long advocated the amendment of that treaty: not less humane, but fairer. In the coalition agreement, we agreed on an investigation to see what should change here. I ask the cabinet, after Secretary of State Harbers undertook an investigation last week, to take this issue with emphasis. How do we look at the international framework in which we pursue our refugee policy and do we need to adapt it in order to limit the legalisation and put humanisation first? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Choices are needed to strengthen our country over the next twenty years, and this requires the elimination of dilemmas. A sustainable pension does not exist without reform of the system. Building on the future layout of our country cannot be without policy choices about demographics. Jobs for the future will not remain if we do not dare to fight for companies, including the big ones. Hateimams don't stop if we don't tighten the limit of freedom of speech. Fighting terrorism is pointless if we do not give our services the power to process data. The challenge of migration cannot be managed without an adaptation of the international structure. And can't rule without having the guts to make those choices. This coalition consists of four totally different parties but one thing binds them: a better Netherlands starts making choices. Parties watching from the sidelines do not strengthen the Netherlands. And if they're just criticizing, they're more likely to contribute to the fragmentation. Politically fun for the short term, but death in the pot for the long term! The CDA considers it its responsibility, and hopes to find the whole Chamber by its side, to contribute to the long-term choices: in ten years and twenty years, for 2019 and for 2029, and for the anniversary year 2039. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u200	I missed an element of integration for a moment, because I also heard Mr Buma say some pretty firm words in his Schoo lecture last year. I share a lot of that. For example, he mentioned that people have continued to celebrate their own culture, faith and language, that there is a failure in integration and that we, he too, had hope for enlightenment but that that enlightened Islam has not happened. Even he called himself a clash of civilizations in our house at times. I tasted a lot of kinship in that with my idea that we need to be more focused and firmer in order to better integrate the oppressive elements, which Mr Buma also talked about and which are present in parts of the Netherlands. I did hear criticism of a partial aspect of my plan earlier, and I fully understand that, but is he prepared to think about a targeted neighbourhood approach? Or does he have an alternative I could think with? Not only do we find it regrettable that integration is lagging behind, but we also do something to ensure that this freedom will be available to everyone in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u201	Let us not underestimate what we have already written in the coalition agreement, and also what we are going to do, about strengthening integration, about compulsory integration, about learning the language and about crime. There's a lot going on in there. I would very much like to think along with you on the approach. Where I have a hesitation, there's neighborhoods. I have been in a cabinet, at least as a member of parliament, that the problems were limited to 'we have 40 districts and they get a stamp', and that did not work. That was, of course, very money-oriented, but there are also many vulnerable people outside those neighbourhoods. I think what you're doing is looking for those vulnerable people. We must look for those places where integration does not work and where it actually becomes the opposite. The new generation is more orthodox and farther away from society than the previous generation. That's the search. We can make them very well together. I think we'll be able to make it with a lot more. In your plan I would ask myself whether it is about certain neighborhoods that have much more than that mix; they have a double mix. or that you need to look more broadly at where the causes lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u202	I am pleased with this answer, because in whatever way we are looking to identify the people who suffer most from a oppressive culture in the Netherlands: that is a means. We are happy to share the goal and I think that is a good point of departure for further work and progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u203	One more thing about that. We didn't just... in our coalition agreement... There's... That might be the cliffhanger for the next debate. After all, tomorrow we have quiet Thursday and then we continue Friday. You've got everything these days. I have not responded to your perception of freedom, but of course we do have the basis of that freedom that we share together. As far as I'm concerned, it's more than we say to people, you're free and you can do whatever you want. There are a number of values and standards in our society that we do want to give them. So it's more than value-free but free to do your thing. If we agree on this, we are still much further along and we can organise something beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u204	I fully agree with Mr Buma that this freedom presupposes shared values and, at the very least, assumes that you grant that freedom to others, and not restrict it. So it's more than just that. Equivalence, responsibility. I think we're gonna make it a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u205	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u206	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u207	Mr. Chairman. A foreign minister who lied about meeting with Putin who he didn't seem to have had at all. And our prime minister didn't think that lie was a problem until it got into the paper. The dividend debacle, in which the Prime Minister really could not remember a filing cabinet full of pieces about the dividend tax. The stinking deal with big polluter Shell, which cost society more than 7 billion euros, while the rest of the Netherlands had to pay for the crisis. And a new foreign minister who should be diplomatic, but who did not turn out to be able to do so in rooms. About as long as this cabinet sits there, I may be chairman of the most beautiful party in the Netherlands, and these were the four debates that the group chairmen held in this Chamber at this time: debates on lying ministers and on a prime minister who seems to be particularly in favour of big business. And then some wonder why people are losing faith in politics. Fortunately, today we can talk about the state of our country, the future of our society and, as far as I am concerned, the need for change. Mr President, I know you might not give it to me, but I am 33 years old and I am increasingly aware of one thing: what serious extension of social security has my generation and the generations after me actually experienced? And we've been constantly hearing about the blessings of the market, but we've been getting privatisations, lagging wages and selling out the public sector. With the advent of more market, morale disappeared. Last Saturday it was exactly ten years since the American bank Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. It turned out to be the beginning of many crises: a financial crisis, an economic crisis but perhaps above all a crisis of confidence; all in all a system crisis, sparked by bankers and fueled by politicians. People lost their jobs, their care and their security. Weirdly enough, these billions were not made by the economic elites; they were made rich by all that gambling. No, those billions were pulled out of society. Dozens of billions have been cut back by this Prime Minister on what is ours all. The age of AOW increased, study funding was abolished and the number of uncertain contracts exploded, while an affordable home is still hardly to be found. The cultural sector also had to bleed. More and more photographers, musicians and actors are having difficulty living off their work. Seventy-seven thousand people working in health care lost their jobs. Care homes were closed down and home care was also cut down considerably. What is perhaps the worst: ten years later, hardly any lessons have been learned. The financial and economic elites simply go back to business: bonuses, extremely high salaries, tax avoidance and even fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u208	I'm just thinking back to that period. My party had three seats and the SP had 25 seats. If you have so many ideals, and if you want to see the world so much differently and above all set up, isn't it important to use your constituents' mandate as well? I regret that in the stories of the Socialist Party in recent years. Each time the prediction goes well with retroactive force, but helping solve or prevent does not happen. That was also 2008. 25 seats for the SP and they did not manage to achieve the progressive weather.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u209	I do not know if the coalition is in agreement, but Mr Klaver has just taken the measure of the negotiations after the last elections, and Mr Pechtold is now even standing up to me to take the measure of elections that are now ten years behind us. I would like to talk to Mr Pechtold about why it did not succeed at the time, but I believe that it is now important to talk about the state of our country and that there is little point in analysing the elections that took place ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u210	I notice that a leader of the SP explains the quiet tone and the quiet language of me as "taking the measure." I was simply concerned with the historical perspective on which, I noted, Mrs Marijnissen's contribution is based. Let me just say that I myself, as a progressive politician, think of this every time. If we want to achieve something, if we want to invest, if we want to give opportunities, you can, as you're probably going to do now, take other progressive parties into account each time, but you can also bet your seats to do something about it. That's only what I wanted to tell you in your 2008 picture. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u211	I am now, I believe, nine months leader of our party. At that time, as SP, we participated in the Climate Act, with the entire coalition, even with your party and with the VVD. We don't do that every day as SP, I can tell you. I would like to say that we will support any good proposal. You can count on us for that, too. Last week I referred just now to Hans de Boer, who is also not necessarily the biggest socialist in the Netherlands, a letter addressed to this cabinet. I could agree with him, in this case, on the future of social work companies. I would just like to mention these two things in the direction of Mr Pechtold. If he comes up with good proposals, he really doesn't have to be afraid that we as SP will not build coalitions and look them up. More than I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. How big is the contrast? Here in The Hague, I now hear almost every day that the crisis is over and how fantastic the economy is. You don't actually seem to count if you don't participate in that jubilant polonaise policy. But what could we read last week in The Financial Daily? For the first time since World War II, the future of most 30s looks less good than that of their parents. The public sector is on fire. That's not what I'm saying, but that's what the teachers Jan van de Ven and Thijs Roovers say along with bus drivers, caregivers and police officers. People who are working day in, day out for all of us. For a little respect and appreciation they are forced to carry out the greatest actions in a long time. Care premiums rise, grandpa and grandma have to go to court more and more to get home care, the bus line has been lifted, the police station nearby is closed and too many declarations disappear in the drawer. The government doesn't give home when people need her. But when Shell and Unilever call, suddenly everything turns out to be possible. My question is: does the Prime Minister understand what that does to society? Does he understand the three-quarters of the Dutch who no longer believe anything about this polonaise policy here in The Hague? Does he understand the people who have the feeling: the government is not there for me? And can he imagine that people find it unfair that the big companies are being courted while their concerns are being ignored? As a SP, we also conduct a lot of our own research among people, including among 60,000 people working in the public sector. Our report The public sector speaks that more than three out of five employees dislike the increased bureaucracy in the public sector. In all parts of the public sector people say it: the market does not belong here. Against all research results and practical experiences, Mark Rutte believes in further rolling out and marketing our public sector. The result: the public sector is indeed on fire. On 2 October, one of the biggest actions in the public sector will be organised over many years: teachers, police officers, caregivers and many others. They do not ask for mountains of gold. They demand more respect and more appreciation. Enough time to do their job for all of us. And they get a lot of support from the Netherlands. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Veel meer steun dan Rutte III nog heeft onder de Nederlanders.]] Anyone who sees the social anger about the treatment of people with disabilities knows that sooner or later the social workshops will open up again. My good friend Hans de Boer passed by; he even agrees with me. And anyone who sees the obvious failure of market ideology in the public sector knows that sooner or later society will force the reconstruction of a public sector. And anyone who sees the ever-increasing care premiums, the money wasting changeover circus and the increasing power of health insurance companies knows that sooner or later a healthcare fund will be there. Mr. Chairman. Trust begins with certainty. Quite a few people have had one certainty for 40 years now: they don't get to spend anymore. For many years, our economy has grown, but many people have hardly benefited from it. An ever smaller proportion of every euro earned came from the people who also make the money. On the other hand, an increasing proportion disappeared in shareholders' pockets. While the profits of companies increased by 400%, people have not spent more than 40 years. How does the Prime Minister explain the exploding profits against an orphan public sector and the 40-year stagnation of the disposable income of ordinary people? A healthy and just economy requires a clear wage increase. In the meantime, I think everyone agrees on that. I am therefore pleased that the largest trade union in the Netherlands, the FNV, demands a wage of 5%. Even The Telegraph called it reasonable. That 5% is a first step towards a healthier and just economy. Does the Prime Minister share my view that a catch-up is necessary? Mr. Chairman. I think I am standing here for about ten minutes and I have not yet spoken the famous d-word, but I cannot escape it: abolishing the dividend tax. The ultimate example of raw capitalism, I would like to repeat to Mr Segers. This dividend debacle has been going on for a year now: a year in which the stinking deal with Shell worth 7 billion came up and a year in which it became clear that the gift voucher didn't come on the table at all during the formation, but that the Prime Minister has been talking about abolishing the dividend tax since 2010. I haven't been in this Chamber for very long, but I think it's pretty special. The Prime Minister has no support from society, no support from experts, no support from civil servants and no support from the opposition. And his coalition mates only support him with the greatest possible melons in his throat and knives on his throat. Rutte is holding his coalition hostage and is risking his own credibility. And yes, the coalition can win this in the short term. Sure. But the social account is huge, namely distrust and displeasure in our society. The Prime Minister loses support among Dutch people of all political preferences. People rightly ask for a prime minister who is there for all Dutch. EUR 2 billion is a huge amount, but it is much more. The abolition of this dividend tax has become the symbol of a political elite that is not at the service of society, but at the service of an economic elite, and that great social indignation is therefore justified. However, the political amazement about it as far as I am concerned is not. This billion-dollar gift to foreign shareholders is not a coincidence or incident. It's a symptom, a symptom of hanging from the ears to the economic elite. Mr. Chairman. During my life, I have just referred to how long that is. The tax on profits is almost halved. From Lubbers via Kok and Balkende to Mark Rutte, Shell, Unilever and others forced ever lower contributions to our society, from 48% to, as it now seems, 22.5%. And as profits exploded, companies' contribution to our society decreased. Ironically, the Prime Minister, who says he is disoriented from a vision, follows the neoliberal blueprint of the past few decades: lower, lower, lower, or else they might leave. Whoever wants to prove the bankruptcy of this ideology asks one simple question: Prime Minister, where is the bottom? Mr. Chairman. I do not understand why I have just told Mr Buma how the government agreement once came about that people with disabilities should be able to work below the minimum wage. I really have no idea at what point anyone there thought that was a good idea. But as with the dividend tax, it turned out that no one was waiting for it. No one thought it was a good idea. No party had it in the election program. And the heroes Noortje of Lith and Amber Bindels, and all the others, stood up and asked: does the minimum wage not apply to us? No, they were initially told. They weren't worth the minimum wage. They agreed: we're gonna win this. And chairman, they won. I am glad, very glad that the cabinet has listened to them. When is the cabinet going to listen when it comes to abolishing this dividend tax? Please tell us, Prime Minister, how much support you have to lose before you repent. How many people do we have to take out on the streets before you abandon this unjust plan? Justice. You have heard me use that word a little more recently, Mr President, and not without reason. For is it just that in our country two thirds of the wealth is in the hands of the richest 10%? And the rest, i.e. 90% of the Netherlands, the common man, has to do with a third of that wealth. And is it fair that the number of millionaires in the Netherlands is increasing rapidly while there is still so much poverty in this country? And is it fair that directors of large companies in our country earn no less than 171 times more than an average employee? And is it right that the Dutch Government should support the totally failed permanent war in the Middle East, which did not bring peace closer, but further away? And not only that, as it turns out; the terrorist groups that are being fought against were also provided with material. No, Mr. Chairman, that's not fair. And it is therefore not surprising that many people lose faith in politics, painfully nearly a century after the universal right to vote. In our country, as many as 93% of the higher educated people voted, compared with only 59% of the more practically trained voters. In the Molenkwartier, the district with the highest incomes in Rotterdam, four out of five people voted. In the district of Feijenoord you know that district of that proud football club, but it is also a district with much lower incomes. Why have all these people lost faith in politics? It is time for justice, in the country and in the economy. And I've seen what raw shareholder capitalism does to communities, in my own Oss, for example. Organon just passed by. That's the company where the contraceptive pill was invented. And I was kind of born and raised in Organon's backyard. Organon was much more than just work for us; it was the pride of our community. In the boardroom of AkzoNobel, which Organon was part of, the high lords thought differently. The company was sold to an American company. Organon had always made big profits, but the shareholders wanted to see even more money. And so somewhere in America, it was decided to close down the research department. About 2,000 people lost their jobs. Every day these workers walked in a protest march through Oss, and I regularly walked with them. You could see the despair and the sadness of the faces. A healthy company that makes a good contribution to our country, which appreciates its people and invests in the future: such a company is only possible if the balance between the power of the shareholders and the power of the people who do the work is balanced, if the power of the shareholders is reduced and those of the advocates of a great future is increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u212	I have a question about Oss. It's no coincidence that the SP is talking about that. When that departure of Organon was on the agenda, the SP told The Hague that everything had to be done to prevent that company from leaving the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u213	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u214	One of the things the SP even said: let's nationalize the company if necessary. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u215	Hm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u216	Isn't there gonna be more than "hm"? What did nationalizing mean? At that time Organon had just been taken over and I think it had a value of EUR 11 billion. That means that you were willing to give EUR 11 billion from public funds to shareholders. The majority were foreign shareholders. You gave 11 billion euros to take them off their shares and transfer those shares to the Dutch State. You wanted to give EUR 11 billion for a company and for 2,000 jobs. You can choose that, but you now speak big words while you then wanted something much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u217	Scientific research has been carried out into what exactly happened in Organon in Oss, how it could have come to this extent that, indeed, shareholders in America, who had never been to Oss, who had never taken one step in the company before, a company that was made great by the people in Oss, who lived and worked there, could decide that the research department had to close down. That's not just my story. That's what scientific research has been done. And do you know, Mr. Buma, what was the outcome of that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u218	I was still waiting for the answer to my question, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u219	I'll give you that answer. The result of the study was that the fixation on shareholder interests by top managers destroys companies and costs jobs. Not words from me as a socialist, but scientific research. And that is exactly the answer to your question. I was just about to go to a concrete proposal that I want to make here, precisely to curb the power of those shareholders to protect our companies. You'll make another choice. You say: I will go down in that race; we are even going to abolish the dividend tax, even if there is no research. You say yourself: I can't really make it hard either. We have another solution, Mr. Buma. We're not going down in that race. We are not going to abolish dividend tax. We're not going to lower any further in profit taxation. No, we're restoring balance, because the balance is out. The power of the shareholders has become too great in relation to the power of the people who do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u220	The only thing is that it's a completely different story than the one I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u221	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u222	My question wasn't that hard. My question was: isn't it true that the SP then advocated the nationalisation of Organon? That means, in fact, that you are not saying "no' to "no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to You shake no, but it's a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u223	No, no, I'm just telling you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u224	Or you should...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u225	I'll come up with a proposition. Perhaps you could also listen to this and respond to it and say what you think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u226	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u227	I don't know if we're gonna fix this. Look, you can nationalize in two ways. You can nationalize on the Venezuelan and then you don't pay anything. But you can't. At least I assume you weren't going to, because then we really have a whole different story. If you nationalize, you have to buy the company's shares as if you didn't know what you meant at the time, the property. That company was worth 11 billion euros. That was in the hands of all the shareholders you didn't like, but they had to be paid. Did you realize that at that time you just chose 11 billion to share and burden the State with a company... Then you're making pills like politics at some point! You can't. At the heart of the matter is that I do not understand that you do not even know what you have proposed, and you do have big words about this dividend tax. So back up, do you realize that you would have just paid out EUR 11 billion to shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u228	Mr Buma can laugh here and make a caricature of it, in the vein of: then you as a government make pills. I'm making a very reasonable point, Mr. Buma. That point is that the balance is lost. I don't hear about that. I didn't even hear about that. The balance is lost. People who've made the company big I've seen it myself in my own Oss people who work there, people who've made all those profits that are still not high enough and not big enough for the shareholders in America who people have too little to say about their own business. That, Mr. Buma, and I was just about to go there, is, as far as I'm concerned, the direction of resolution. And yes, it's true, you're ahead of a total solution. You say we're gonna go down in that race, 'cause who knows, maybe they're gonna leave, maybe they're gonna leave. You're going down in the race. I also ask you the question I put to the Prime Minister: where is the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u229	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u230	Mr. Chairman. In countries around us, employees often have more control over their work at the moment, for example through a employees' meeting that gets a decisive vote in the general meeting of shareholders, or a golden share for employees who can veto strategic decisions, such as takeovers and directors' salaries. Because, Mr President, is it fair for a student of Albert Heijn to work for more than 500 years for the annual salary of one director?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u231	Let me start by saying that I do not throw away Mrs Marijnissen's criticism of how things sometimes go, the decisions that shareholders make and the intentions they sometimes have. I am sometimes worried about shareholders making choices that are not socially optimal, but for their investment. That's what I'm worried about. The cabinet is also looking at protection structures. What Mrs Marijnissen is proposing now sounds sympathetic at first hearing. You can never get fired unless the employees themselves say, "You know what, close our tent."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u232	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u233	That is how it is when you have a decisive vote, a decisive vote. So that's gonna be complicated. The company will not be able to close unless the employees agree. But that does have a side effect. No matter how annoying it is sometimes what shareholders do, you spend shares because you need money to grow, to hire more people. So why would a shareholder spend his money to become part-owners of a company, when then others, its employees, have something to say about his property and get the ultimate say in what happens to his or her property and the value of those shares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u234	The answer is very simple, I think: because it is the employees who make sure that there are shares to be issued at all. Because it is the workers who ensure that there can be dividend payments at all. Because it's the employees who make sure there are products at all, that there are things you can have shares in. Because it's the employees who make the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u235	These are very few employees, because of course these workers are not all going to lose their savings to make that company grow, to make it invest, so that there are more colleagues and the company grows. You're gonna need foreign capital for that. That's why you're spending stock. You don't usually do that because you think: you know what, I own the company, but I prefer to give it away to others. That's what you do to raise capital. Don't you see that it can also cause damage to the entire economy if people from abroad have to choose where to invest, know: if I invest it in the Netherlands, I don't really have much more to say about my property? Is this not too radical a proposal to try to contain the fact that choices are sometimes made that are not socially optimal? 'Cause I'd like to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u236	If Mr Dijkhoff says that it is perhaps too radical a proposal, then I myself will become even more enthusiastic if possible. I believe that only radical solutions will help here. A little more or less is not going to bring us any further at a time when the power of shareholders has grown so greatly and the balance sheet is still missing, Mr Dijkhoff. I think that is why not only me, but the opposition as a whole is so critical of further lowering the tax on profits and abolishing the dividend tax. What you are doing with this is taking a step forward in that raw capitalism, with even more power and even more interests for the shareholders, instead of trying to curb that raw capitalism a little bit and bring back the balance that is so lacking. I think it's time for that. When I put it that way, I think: well, it's not really that radical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u237	No, when you say "a little" for something, it sounds a lot less radical. But I'm still going a little further. Mrs. Marijnissen actually started with a whole lamentation. I share her concerns; we've talked about that before. I also like that we have it even easier and better than the previous generation. But I thought it was a very one-sided image. Of course there is a great deal wrong with capitalism, in the sense that there are always people who use that system wrongly and who have misintentions, just as is the case with a communist system or a completely different system. There are always people who try to do more for themselves than for the common good. But in all these years Mrs Marijnissen mentioned, prosperity has risen enormously. In all those countries where prosperity is also rising, where care is greatly improved and education is greatly improved, it is because there is a system with a market that rewards people when they show courage, have creativity, make investments and take risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u238	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u239	So I would be a little more careful with that radicalism in relation to that capitalism, to which we owe all the prosperity of today. I'd be a little more careful to say from some decadence point of view: now that we have that money, we can dampen the source, because it doesn't sound like much fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u240	No, I think my point is exactly the other way around. Mr Dijkhoff says that I started with a lamentation. I do not recognize that, unless Mr Dijkhoff thinks that, for example, the teachers Jan van de Ven and Thijs Roovers, whom I quoted earlier, keep a lamentation. They say: the public sector is on fire. I am trying to express what I hear from them here, and I think they have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u241	I'm very sorry about this. I am trying to start a debate on content with Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u242	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u243	I heard her say it's still fucking because of all those years of capitalism. She also referred to 'neoliberalism' as 'neoliberalism', but I think that is more of a swear word; I myself am not one of 'neoliberalism' and said that it is all so bad and not progressing. I do not call the legitimate concern of those people 'complaints', as Mrs Marijnissen knows. So don't make the picture for those people like I'm saying they're complaining. They have legitimate concerns. That's what we're meeting, but we can't solve everything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u244	I heard for the second time that the public sector is on fire...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u245	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u246	... and that there will be a demonstration of which Mrs Marijnissen apparently shares the intention, namely that there should be more money for education. At the same time, you speak of "confidence that has been violated." When is trust being violated? When you do something other than what you promise. At the end of this period, this cabinet will pay 1.9 billion for education. That's nowhere near where the SP comes in. No, the other way around: the SP is far from reaching that amount and is hundreds of millions lower than this cabinet. Then you cannot say: the public sector is on fire; it is scandalous what happens to education? In your programme there is a cut in higher education and there is an amount for education and investment that is many times lower than what this cabinet does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u247	Mr Segers has undoubtedly noted that we have proposed alternative choices together with the Labour Party and GroenLinks. We invest extra in the public sector. I will not go back as far as our election programme, with which I believe we were the champion of public sector investment. I don't think that makes much sense right now. What makes sense, in my opinion, is the debate on how we stand now. We've had the eulogy of the throne. It was one big jubilee story, a political polonaise about how well things are going in the Netherlands. Then it must also hurt Mr Segers that the people who are on the front line of our daily reality, namely our teachers, teachers, nurses and agents, say that they feel that this cabinet is inadequate and feel that they cannot do their job in the way they would like to do it and that they cannot give the children the education they deserve. That's supposed to hurt you, too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u248	We won't get anywhere if we really paint everything in black and white and if everything in the cabinet is wrong and everything is okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u249	I interpret what these teachers say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u250	We really need to be real and really take a look at the facts. This cabinet invests 1.9 billion. The SP had 1.2 billion in its programme for education and a cut in higher education. You saw the figures presented yesterday. How much money does these pupils and those students end up with per child or per student in primary education, secondary education and higher education? That's an increase. You can't say "it's on fire and it's outrageous" if you've pulled out a lot less in your program yourself? I just don't think it's fair; I just don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u251	I repeat, the public sector is on fire. That's what I'm quoting two teachers with. They're two teachers, but they've got a huge support team and they've got a lot of support. As I said in my text, they may have more support than this cabinet. There is a great deal of support for those two teachers and all those others in the public sector who say: on 2 October it is up to us; then we are going to be heard from. Of course it is a good thing, as I believe we have said, that these investments are being made in the public sector, but there is a big 'but'. We've had ten years of crisis. Tens of billions have been taken away from the public sector. So that investment is still repairing that which is broken. I think it is right that these two teachers, with their very large supporters, are now saying: if there is so much jubilation here that politics is doing so well and if there is apparently even 2 billion left to give away to foreign shareholders, without any argument or any justification for it, then it is enough and then that money should be where it belongs, that is to say, with our public sector and the people who work for us all every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u252	Let me simply say that I find it really unfair to talk about the cabinet and the coalition parties as "the high-ranking gentlemen in The Hague who want everything, who set things on fire and lose confidence', while investing 1.9 billion, ensure that the amount paid per student at the school goes up, while the SP itself does not deliver any butter to the fish and has taken a lower amount into account. Then I find it unfair for good relations, but also for external confidence, not fair to give this outline of the policy of this cabinet, when you are much less in the books, but you are much less in the books, but you are speaking with such great words. I really don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u253	Mr Segers himself is also using great words about trust. It's not like I'm thinking here that trust in this cabinet is historically low. I assume you saw those figures yourself last week. I'm not thinking that the public sector is on fire. Again, I say this on behalf of those two teachers and a very large supporter. So you can take the measure, you can say that you don't think it's fair, but I'm trying to tell you here what we hear from everyday practice every day. And I'll tell you, I agree with these people very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u254	You're not sitting here as a politician just to translate sounds and take over without a hitch, you're also sitting here to see how credible it is when you take over something like that. Now Mrs Marijnissen hides behind teachers who say the public sector is on fire, but she doesn't say it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u255	Yes, I do. Absolutely. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u256	And then with an incredibly incredibly high level of education. During the previous cabinet period, the SP was cutting back, and I had many exchanges with Mr Roemer, and I never received an answer to EUR 1 billion in education. This time, the SP in its election program will pay 1.2 billion for it. This cabinet is worth 1.9 billion for education. You zoom in on Mr. Van de Ven and the other from primary school. You didn't take no for an answer, and this cabinet didn't take $700 million. Next week, teachers in primary education will receive a paycheck with an increase of 8.5%. They get a bonus, gross, I say, of $2,000, not promised by the SP, not promised by anyone here. That's what you should tell us on October 2nd. It's thanks to this cabinet and not the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u257	Where the pay gap is concerned, which was already mentioned at the beginning of this day...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u258	It's more of a knowledge gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u259	I think you yourself referred to the pay gap between primary and secondary education, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u260	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u261	Well, that's what I'm responding to. It is true that the closing of that pay gap was not in our election programme. If you want to make that point, fuck it. That's right, but I don't believe in anyone here, do I? Now the reality is that these teachers have a good point, not just because there are two of them and they have big supporters, but because we cannot get teachers because the workload is too high. We do go to schools in Zaandam with a four-day class week, because there are no invaders when teachers get sick. Then we can do two things, Mr. Pechtold. Then we can take each other's best shot at what was on whose election program. Well, then I also remember one about something that wasn't in an election program and which you have a lot less trouble with. Or we can find a solution. And then we say, and that is what we have presented today, together with the Labour Party and the Green Left Party, that there must be an additional investment on what the Cabinet is doing now that economic space is there. Because that's the worst part, we're not in the ten years that the crisis lasted. Now there's that economic space. Then we do make other choices. Then we do not opt for the abolition of dividend taxation, we do not opt for the further reduction of the tax on profits. No, then we choose to invest in decent education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u262	Yeah, that class believes it, but I hope not the rest of the Netherlands. I can tell you in every class that SP pays zero euros for primary education in its election programme and zero euros for the workload. Then there will be a cabinet which, last summer, dealt with what should be done in primary education, with various measures, such as a wage increase of 8%, 400 million to reduce the workload you are talking about and to ensure that there are new teachers in the classroom by halving the tuition fees on the pabo in the first two years. Those are measures. And I don't have to tell you that at a demonstration. What I have to do is put seats at a negotiating table and come to a common policy with each other, but based on your election programme. There was nothing in your election programme, and you are talking about the sector that is on fire. You throw oil on the fire, you light the trade yourself. Now put it out!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u263	Mr Pechtold may look at me so angry and address me with such firm words, but I really think that is a serious point, and that is that he is failing all those people in society who are worried. Then you can laugh at a demonstration on 2 October which has been announced and then you can say "you should not go to that demonstration," but I am also standing here telling my story. Right? We are also making our alternative proposals here, but I will also be there to support those people. And it would adorn you if you did, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u264	As far as I am concerned, I will stand next to you and then we will tell you together what we agreed when we approached the electorate and asked for seats, and what we then did with them. But then, together, we'll call both the facts as they're now recorded. The SP 1.2 billion and the cabinet comes with 1.9 billion. D66 would have wanted a lot more, but yes, we had to get together a little bit to the healthy middle. But with you at the table, I would have been lower. And that's what we're gonna tell each other. Mrs Marijnissen, I treat you absolutely seriously, but I do think that if you put society in parliament every time, and we all do so, you should keep your own credibility first. And that is why I do not think that with teachers in primary education who may have legitimate concerns about the workload, about the difference between secondary education and about all kinds of wishes that remain in the future, you can shield them by throwing their own eyes in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u265	Whether Mr Pechtold takes me seriously, I leave it to him. I will also be honest with him: I am not so interested in that at the moment. What interests me is all those people who work in the public sector. I am talking about the 60,000 people we interviewed for our research, who say that they are going crazy with bureaucracy and the market, and that they have been squeezed out for too long. Once again, Mr Pechtold can refer to election programmes. I think I've already responded to that. This morning we have presented alternative choices. In that we show that this can be done, as long as you dare to choose it in times when things are going so very well economically. We are coming out of the crisis and from a time when there has been enormous savings on the very public sector. Now is the time to opt for extra investments where they belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u266	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u267	How about I give you an unexpected compliment? Do you know why you can present those numbers? Do you know why this cabinet can do that? Because in a previous period, a party such as the PvdA had the courage to take measures to get us out of this crisis, among other things, which would restore employment and enable us to invest again. That is cooperation from the broad political centre. And then there's no use shouting on the left or screaming on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u268	When the arguments are gone, we get this kind of rhetoric from Mr Pechtold: shouting on the left or shouting on the right. You can take my story off like this, but I think there are a lot of people who think differently. It's not just screaming. We're presenting alternative choices, as I just told you. Moreover, I think it is a very legitimate story here and it is very important to ensure, after all these years of austerity, that investment is now being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u269	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u270	Mr. Chairman. We want to keep our earth habitable for generations to come after us. And so something will have to change. We are therefore co-subscribe to the Climate Act, an initiative together with the coalition. I have already said it and say it again to Mr Pechtold: we do not do that every day as SP, but where the good proposals are concerned you can count on us. Our businesses, homes and society will have to switch to clean energy. However, the great debate for the coming period will be: how are we going to organise this and, above all, who will pay and who will benefit? Currently, Dutch companies pay 1.8 billion less than they pollute and households 2.8 billion more. Let us put the bill on the polluting companies instead of on the families. Let me give you an example from our own practice. In the Amersfoort district of Liendert there are apartments from the sixties. It has never been properly maintained. The kitchens fall apart from misery, the shower is full of mold and curtains, is not in it, because the walls and windows are too bad for that. Recently, the housing corporation finally came up with a renovation plan for the houses. But what do you think? The residents did not get any improvements in the house, but on top of the house. They got solar panels on the roof. These residents had nothing against solar panels at first, but they did now. They say, "Go away with your solar panels; we want a decent home to live in healthy every day." Mr. Chairman. That's not how it's supposed to be! If we want to solve this huge problem for the future, we will have to tackle major pollutants and not charge the ordinary people with costs. Does the Prime Minister share my concerns? Does he agree that we cannot allow families to pay for climate policy? In society, so many people already show that things can be different. They're rowing against the current to make our country better, to make the world fairer. I talked about Amber and Noortje before, and we just talked about Jan and Thijs extensively. But there are so many more. Take, for example, the professors Jan Schellens and René Bernards. They discovered a new way to fight a certain type of cancer. They decided not to sell their discovery for millions on the market but now try to develop it themselves. The large pharmaceutical companies charge €100,000 per patient per year for this medicine. Thanks to the work of Bernards and Schellens it may now become almost 70 times cheaper available. We can support these heroes, for example by setting up a drug fund. This fund will make it possible to make medicines available at an affordable price. This is how we break the power of the pharmaceutical industry and keep new drugs affordable for everyone. Ten years ago, the crisis began in the financial sector. It was not a natural disaster, nor a coincidence, but a logical consequence of ideology, cultivated by politicians with a sacred faith in flexibilisation, privatisation and deregulation. After the demolition hammer of billions in the public sector, raising the age of AOW, abolishing study funding and an extreme increase in uncertain contracts, the conclusion is quite simple: bankers were allowed to gamble but society could pay. Despite all the jubilation in The Hague, it is not so strange that it bubbles and brews in the country. It's in the air. You can almost taste it. I therefore address myself today to all those allies outside this Chamber, who are also in favour of a more just Netherlands. We stand before the clean task of turning anger into courage. And we face the challenge of forming that broad, social front. For a country where justice wins the quick profits, morale wins the market and democracy means that power really lies with the people. A country where we do not choose the individual at the top, but for all Dutch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u271	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then I really want to make the proposal now or 'the proposal': I just decide! for a dinner break up to seven o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u272	We will continue with the debate on the General Political Reviews. We have now come to Mr Pechtold's contribution on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u273	Madam President. When I sum up the Millions note, I say: the Netherlands is doing well. The charges are going down. There's gonna be more jobs. And we're gonna green it up. As the King said yesterday, trust in the future is work in progress. But when I look at Europe and the world and summarise that picture briefly, I say something else. Because too many free countries, our allies, seem to have lost their way. Brexit, Trump and Putin are threatening the stable world order. The Italians are undermining the budgetary rules. Politicians in Poland are firing judges. In Hungary, democracy and the rule of law are being violated. It is a good thing that we are talking today about the Million Note, about the plans of this cabinet for next year. But I fear that we will be put to the test faster than we might expect and that international events that we do not have any control over will turn out to be problems that we are talking about today from a very different order. In a changing world, we are setting a course in full awareness that we are never going to get there alone. "Only you move quickly, together you will move on," said a wise mayor once. In a country of minorities nobody gets to be completely equal, just like at home, at work or at the sports club. It's gonna take a lot of cash. That is the beauty and, at the same time, the greatest challenge of our democracy. This coalition sets goals across generations: from climate to sovereign debt and pensions. We act on a mission for future generations and the goal is clear. The great opportunities that many Dutch people get must be accessible to all Dutch people. This summer I was short on Curaçao, a sunny and tropical part of our kingdom. You understand, I didn't want to go back. It was a lot cooler there than in the Netherlands. In other parts of the Kingdom, people have actually experienced the effects of extreme weather: the devastating power of water and wind, the cost to society, but also the personal grief. The threat and slow-moving climate disaster is not an elite problem. If there is one crisis that everyone has to deal with, then it is the climate crisis. As far as I am concerned, there is no time for artificial contradictions between Tesla's and tractors. Between liars and deniers. It is time for action: together the shoulders underneath. We still have 30 years to limit human-induced global warming to 2°C. With the countries around us, therefore, we want to go beyond the 49% CO reduction. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: can he confirm that Europe, and in particular our neighbouring countries, is also moving in the right direction? Who's in, Merkel, Macron, Michel? Let's speed up, because 49% is good, but 55% reduction is my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u274	The cabinet isn't going to be charged for anything. No hard targets have been set with regard to CO reduction. It is all very soft, so as to avoid a second Urgenda case, which the judge said should be reduced by 25% of CO by 2020. That has now been released and we are now looking at 2030. So much for the urgency of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u275	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u276	Now we have heard from the summer that Mr Nijpels with the climate tables still needs a lot of time to reach a climate agreement. We have also understood that Shell is particularly uncomfortable because it wants to receive subsidies when it has to invest in the environment. What does Mr Pechtold think of the establishment of such a large company?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u277	First of all, I agree with Mrs Thieme that the results of the past in this case are no guarantee for the future either, because the Netherlands was very behind countries such as Malta and Luxembourg. The parties such as yours and mine rightly said when we entered the elections a few years ago: this is one of the most important points. We have a sovereign debt, but the climate debt: I'm almost afraid to choose what I think is more important for the next generation to solve. Then we need everyone, and then companies that have such an impact on our consumer behaviour and on the old energy do not really need to step on the brakes. These companies should actually be co-responsible for the shift to new energy sources. Governments may be able to do anything with laws and budgets, but we, as consumers, also appear to be increasingly strong to show large companies what social enterprise is. I will give an example of this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u278	Sure. I am glad that Mr Pechtold also finds it impossible for companies like Shell to sabotage the polder that is now taking place at the climate tables. Anyway, there's urgency. We don't have time to waste. We must hope that something will come out of that climate agreement, but where is the stick behind the door? I can't find him anywhere in the budgets and nowhere in the coalition agreement. The Planning Office for the Environment cannot find it and Klaas van Egmond, former crown member of the Economic and Social Council, also says: "It is sabotage that is happening at the moment. Government intervenes and show courage." Does Mr Pechtold agree with me that this should indeed take place now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u279	I'll take the line, but not all the words. "Sabotage" and so on: I find that far too polarizing. But I agree with Mrs Thieme that a climate law is still paper, as I said in an interruption and even a climate agreement. What's gonna have to happen is that we... I believe that the last thing the Prime Minister did was compare the most important task since reconstruction. Why would you do that? Because you all feel the urgency, but also because you all see the odds and the politics that you don't let that get harder on one group or another. I think that is very important. But I invite you, Mrs Thieme, to join us, as we are working with so many parties to provide this House with broad support. Join in to make sure that paper becomes reality together!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u280	Mr Pechtold can count on that. The Party for Animals will do so during the debate on the Climate Law. What worries me and what is also my point during this interruption is that the VVD spokesman on the Climate Law says that it gives all flexibility to business and does not compromise the export position. This means that this proposal for the Climate Act is to make society happy with a dead sparrow. There are so many people who are worried about climate change! Will D66, together with the Party for Animals, ensure that the Climate Law gets real teeth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u281	Not only with the Party for Animals, also with the VVD. Because that is what I really think is the importance and the outcome of the negotiations of this last cabinet. I will not ask you what your assessment was, but formulate these kinds of hard targets and pick them up at the tables within a year means that the Minister did not have an empty agenda in the past year. It's so tight that we can have the confidence in each other that we can get out of there. I just want to do it with a broad spectrum as possible. Of course, there are parties who look at this from the recent past with perhaps less urgency than you do. I'll just put myself in the middle a little bit. But it only works if it happens together, and that's what I wanted to talk about. Mr. Chairman. I would like and often speak in this house about the importance of cooperation and we have established this cooperation in this Chamber: seven parties linked in a historic climate law. So it is clear that we need to achieve these goals, and now it is time to agree on the climate agreement, which is what we are going to do with it. Perhaps that is the biggest investment of this cabinet, an investment whose burden we will have to share over the coming years and decades. We are doing this together, for everyone and everyone, and I believe that the liberal polluter pays principle applies. The biggest environmental damage is caused by large companies and so we need everyone, agriculture, industry and also the transport sector. Fortunately DSM itself already takes into account a higher CO price. I think this is a good example of social enterprise, I say to Mrs Thieme, but waiting for the good will of business alone is irresponsible. I also expect actions from this cabinet. Implementing the Climate Law and the Climate Agreement requires political leadership. Our children and grandchildren have no voice in this house or at the climate tables, where choices are made for their future. Polderen is a means, but as far as I'm concerned, it's not an end in itself. The time for choices has come and we're losing more than we like if we waste any more time. I say to the Minister, turning off the gas tap is very good news, and I am not going to change it at all, but the people in Groningen also want to know when their homes will be strengthened. If that plan isn't there by the end of this month, you haven't been able to achieve anything like politics for the Groningen people. It's en-and, and not or-or.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u282	I would like to refer to Mr Pechtold's statement on agriculture as part of the solution to the climate problem, which agriculture must also take part in. I just had an interrupting debate with Sybrand Buma on the subsidy given to young farmers: EUR 75 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u283	Million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u284	Sorry, million. 75 million euros for young farmers. If we spend so much money on young farmers, I think we should also make demands on where that money is going. I asked Mr Buma whether he did not agree that this money should not go to the bio-industry, but to environmentally sound agriculture. He couldn't answer that. I expect Mr Pechtold to be able to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u285	I am looking in particular at the Minister, a minister who I know wants to look after not only today's industry, but above all the industry of the future. That money must be spent on the one hand on the needs of farmers. They're just having a hard time there; you said so this afternoon. Many smaller farms have not survived, and that has the effect of creating a lot of very large companies. You called them 'cowboys', I call it 'bigger enterprises', where animal welfare, but also healthy entrepreneurship, comes under severe pressure. Even in the end, people's health suffers from tension. I think it is important that we have found each other in this cabinet. On the one hand, a party like D66 said: can't it be with less animals in the Netherlands? The province of Brabant is already working on that. On the other hand, the Christian Union and the CDA said that we do need a responsible industry. Then let us look at the young farmers who want to undertake. On your justified question how they're going to undertake, I think if I... I have less sense of this than the Minister and perhaps you, but when I see young farmers who want to invest in a healthy industry for the future, they must also look at what we as consumers want today. This conversion must not be carried out under pressure and misery; the young farmers will simply make it on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u286	This month, the Minister of Agriculture has come up with her vision and even the farmers have to conclude, so we read in the main editorial comment that the lack of vision drives them to despair, because they do not know what the framework within which they can act is. Does Mr Pechtold care? Doesn't he also want to call on this cabinet to become much more concrete? All the more so since Mr Pechtold, as he himself clearly points out, is in a coalition with three parties, CDA, VVD and Christian Union, who really want to leave everything to the old? D66 is essentially the only one, as I know D66, who wants to take that step towards organic and sustainable agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u287	It's not because I'm in that coalition, but I've been talking to colleagues for a long time, and the minister was one of the tablemates for a long time during that period. I have been convinced by the enthusiasm, the desire for innovation and the desire for innovation, but also by the knowledge that it is not possible in this way. In a province such as Brabant, where a D66 deputy has been allowed to use that policy in recent years, this process has been started with the support of not only the population and politics but also the farmers. I am very pleased that we are now going to do the same at national level. People may say that there is no overall vision or whatever, but the most important thing is that there is money. It follows that we are critically following how this is well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u288	Mr Klaver, you will have the opportunity to interrupt, but the interruption must be really short, because it has gotten a little out of hand today, with all the group chairmen, by the way. This is a bad example for other Members of Parliament, who have to be brief every time. So set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u289	I just explained to my roommates during dinner break...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u290	That's a good example. Mr. Klaver. No introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u291	...Watch out, this is how you do it, as long as you can, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u292	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u293	Mr President, Mr Pechtold was, of course, always the king of the opposition. Then he faced Rutte, especially when it came to the negotiations on the social agreement. He also often faced the Minister of Social Affairs. They had to hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u294	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u295	Something really had to happen. That is what you see now at the tables when it comes to the climate negotiations. The industrial table isn't going anywhere. In fact, there is a massive lobby to ensure that there is no CO bottom price. How is D66 going to keep that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u296	You can do it. The answer must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u297	By using the best specialist in my group, the most impatient but competent Mr Jetten. I hear the Minister say yes, and that means that the Minister was already suffering from him this morning, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u298	A follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u299	Look, my confidence in Mr Jetten is almost limitless, I would say. It is therefore very nice that you have chosen him as the spokesman on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u300	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u301	But now you're just trying to get away with it a little too easily. I also expect the leader of D66 to take a position on this and, while he is standing here, to make it clear to industry, just as he did from the opposition to the Prime Minister: I expect the industry to come up with measures and to count on the CO bottom price. If industry doesn't, I expect politics to take control of it itself. You didn't negotiate it in a government agreement for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u302	That's right. I refer to the prioritisation in my contribution, in which I begin with the climate, in which, at Mrs Thieme's request, I begin by telling her what I think of Shell, and in which I begin by saying that I praise DSM for its own initiative. The rest of the business community can read the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u303	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u304	Those were open doors. I asked for something very specific. I am asking about the CO bottom price. It is crucial to achieve this sustainability. It's fantastic that that's in the coalition agreement. We see that there is a massive lobby at the industrial table to push that CO bottom price off the table. I think it would be a good signal if the foreman of D66 were to say here now, and give the signal to industry: you can try, but it is in the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u305	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u306	And it's gonna come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u307	You have recently noticed that if there is anything in the coalition agreement, even if there is a massive lobby against...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u308	Very briefly... No, you don't, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u309	I got the word from you! Look, I'm glad...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u310	No, no. You may make a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u311	Seriously, it's there. So we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u312	Good. Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u313	Mr. Chairman. Then our role in Europe. This is a crucial year for European democracy. The question in the European Parliament is now: are these the elections where national populists continue to break? Are we moving forward with the old, diluted, opaque parties and alliances? Or are we finally going to march, I'd say, forward? Are we turning the wheel and daring to choose Europe? The tragic advantage of the Brexit is that support for European cooperation in our country continues to increase. Almost eight out of ten Dutch people now support our membership of the European Union. But I don't want Europe to get stronger because the British show how bad it is out there. I want Europe to show that we are stronger together by giving a strong response to the issues of our time. That's why this cabinet, like D66, chooses a European future. Trade wars, the climate disaster, terrorism, border surveillance, refugees and attacks on democracy, the great problems of our time; we cannot deal with them alone. The answers are in Europe. That is why I welcome a Prime Minister who is beginning to tell this story more and more. He said that my thoughts on the European Union have changed. Well, it's about time. I am glad that, alongside the Prime Minister, more and more colleagues are going to embrace Europe. Glad that we are seeing fewer and fewer climate deniers there and now fewer and fewer European deniers. Mr. Chairman. Next year will be the European elections. They almost coincide with the Brexit. The headlines in the British newspapers speak volumes. The government there places food supplies, withdraws agents' leave and sees businesses leave the bushes. Even the British cabinet seems to slowly come to the understanding that the Brexit is causing enormous damage. Meanwhile, extreme right-wing parliamentarians hold Prime Minister May's government, frustrating the good agreements that could limit the damage. A Brexit costs the Netherlands about 15 billion. The Netherlands 15 billion. That is why I ask our Prime Minister: why is he not yet in London calling for an exit from the Brexit? It's not just gonna kill our neighbors. It is a huge risk for our economy, our companies and also the Dutch there. We have one of the longest-standing Heads of Government of Europe, a face-defining figure with the gravitas to make the unnegotiable discussable, to deal with difficult matters. Take advantage of that! I address myself to the Prime Minister. There is a vacancy for European leadership. Dealing with Prof. Dr. ir. Akkermans to speak: the name is mentioned. Mr. Chairman. In all that instability...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u314	Mr Dijkhoff finds it a little confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u315	No, not your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u316	No, I'm glad you didn't. I'd like to be unrecognizable in London for as long as possible to enjoy that beautiful city. I suppose it's a joke, but Mr. Pechtold brings it so seriously. Maybe there's confusion on my side. For the Brexit, which I am opposed to, there is nothing to the Prime Minister's detriment; I know he is listening in to Obama in England. He made a big call. That didn't really work, at most counterproductive. I agree with Mr Pechtold that it would be fantastic for the British to come to their senses if they remain in the Union. But we don't seriously think it would help if other countries, whether it's our Prime Minister, Merkel or anyone else, were to say in England, "You shouldn't do it." My problem is that it is so irrational that I do not think they will be persuaded when we say: please stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u317	No. I commended Prime Minister Rutte for the experience and position he can take in this debate and I call on him to do so. Why do I do that? If the rise of young people had been the same as the rise of the elderly in the Brexit, we would have had a remain. But what has not been said about falsehood, about 500 million going to health care and all other things that turned out to be false. You can see that the British are in a kind of trap where other friends are not only an economic friend, but also a long-term partner of the British may say: boys, do it neatly, do it well or don't do it and reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u318	I am totally in favour of rethinking, but I think that the run-up and that campaign I have read with amazement how it all went. I am just learning that it is not going to help if we do that, that it is going to get twisted pretty quickly and that the Brexitan hangers are going to say "you see, they need us, they beg Europe" and that kind of text. I think that now that they have taken that retarded decision, it is important to carry out the negotiations hard, so that they cannot think that they will get off well when they leave, and that is the only way to get them to come to their senses and get back on their feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u319	That's a strategy, too. But I'm not just of hardcore and let them feel it, because I'm afraid it's a boomerang that's going to fall back in our economy, our jobs and our prosperity levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u320	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u321	In all this instability, the Netherlands is a beacon of peace and reliability. The country is run with ambition, with healthy reforms and with "a deal is a deal." The cabinet we support is not perfect and certainly not only does our election programme, but is appreciated by our international partners and is still an example country for many. Greetings for the passionate Minister Kaag. She presided over the UN Security Council this spring and during a session on women's emancipation she took a full female delegation. The Russians were the only ones who didn't follow the example. It was a powerful signal, because that day women ruled the world on the initiative of the Netherlands and that is more than a symbolic statement. Because, as Minister Kaag rightly pointed out, there is still a great gap between the standards we set and the bitter reality. The success of such an initiative is a symbol for the Netherlands, for which a small country can be big. This cabinet also pays extra money for this international role. For development cooperation, but also for defense. My party is also convinced that in these turbulent times security is not free, but why is there such an incredible underexhaustment in the Defense Department? There's hundreds of millions on the shelf, but it's not being spent. Now I've been hearing for years that the Ministry is short of everything. The organization needed it and it needed it. Defence and education had to be equal, and I thought that was understandable in this coalition, but I find it distressing when it turns out that Defence is still not up to it. How is that possible? I expect the Prime Minister to give me a clear answer on Friday after eight years, because I am asking this question about every year. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the Netherlands through your eye hairs and take all international lists as a measure, we have very little to complain about. We are among the five happiest countries. We have the best care, more and more jobs, the greatest opportunity to be yourself and a wonderful infrastructure, but how many children are really given the chance to outdo their parents' welfare levels? When I see how much we still have to do to combat poverty, how many children without breakfast go to school and how many women of my generation and younger economically are not independent and when I see how difficult it is still to make a temporary job a permanent job, I love it when I read and hear 96% of the Dutch can buy more, but I say it myself. If you're one of the remaining 4%, that's not gonna do you any good. Prosperity is greater than ever, but uncertainty about its preservation has also increased in recent decades. That doesn't change the insanely happy feelings I have about that 96% record, because those are indeed historical figures. The better we get, the more painful it is when people are left behind. If this cabinet wants to be there for all Dutch people, I think that all attention should be paid to those facing the greatest challenges. So during the budgetary procedure, I want to see how we deal with problems, such as poverty and debt, where children are the victims. I really want to see how we can increase women's economic independence. I really want to see that we don't just score with pretty statistics. I want to see it work, too. I want to see how we tackle labour discrimination hard, how we make a permanent job possible, how we are going to find the much-needed nurses of all these extra billions for care, and how we really prevent loneliness in the elderly. For example, I hear more and more that the police should not only catch bad guys, but also guide confused people. And then I don't need any action plans from the Minister of Health, but then I want results. Too often people experience the government and all those implementing agencies not as help, but as a nuisance. That is why I ask this cabinet: how understandable does the Tax Administration actually communicate? Is the UWV really accessible for a personal conversation? Are the municipalities equipped to combine problems and solutions when it comes to rental and language disadvantages or psychological problems? Because the better a country is, the more attention you have to pay to those who don't come on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u322	Mr. Asscher, you want to interrupt, but you have heard my comment about long interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u323	You bet your ass you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u324	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u325	Beautiful words, but of course they also create expectations about what will happen next. Last year I interrupted Mr Pechtold about the cuts in the coalition agreement. In my view, they were unnecessary. Compliments on removing the measure to pay labour restrictions below the minimum wage; I am very pleased with that. It is a merit of Noortje, Amber and many others. Very good. What is still in the coalition agreement is a quarter of a billion cuts on people who are sick or disabled. It is a cut in the budget which is also in the books for next year. I think that, with what you have just said, we should actually delete that cut together. It doesn't fit the message of this cabinet and it doesn't match the current prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u326	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u327	Are you prepared to look with me at the deletion of that measure? Next year it will not be much, but it will be a quarter of a billion for vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u328	Noortje and Amber, I'm gonna say it once, including Tamara. The Secretary of State has listened and heard the debate over the past year. She has seen that it was not only bureaucratic but also that the measure did not achieve the objective we want. What is the goal that we do want to achieve? This is not just about whether extra money goes to something or not. What purpose do we want to achieve? We've been talking about these sheltered places for years. I remember the motion-Roemer/Pechtold or -Pechtold/Roemer: I don't really know anymore, but that doesn't matter either. In that motion we said: not only the government, but also the business community. As you yourself have noticed during your presidency, this is not always done by adding extra money. This is also done by ensuring that municipalities, that companies, that everyone takes up their responsibilities there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u329	I wasn't talking about sheltered workplaces, but I was talking about the cuts in your government agreement on people who are disabled. We are talking about 250 million, a quarter billion. That's what happens in this time of year. My question is: are you prepared to delete that cut? Because it doesn't relate to the social story you just kept. I'm not talking about those sheltered workplaces. Are you prepared to delete that cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u330	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u331	What are all these words worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u332	Well, because you're totally weighing up. Look at the income charts. All groups are improving in the coming years. For people in the lower income groups, for those who have a problem in the labour market, and I was also talking about sheltered work: there are all policies for the future. Is that clear already? Is that crystallized yet? No. I'm looking at the two social ministers. They are also busy with other issues, such as pensions. But as far as I'm concerned, it's a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u333	I don't think Mr Pechtold knows what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u334	Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u335	In his own coalition agreement there is a measure which means that bureaucratic judgements on the suitability of a person for work are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u336	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u337	If the guy doesn't have that job all of a sudden, he's gonna fall back into welfare. On that group, you're going to cut a quarter of a billion dollars. That has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u338	For years, we've been reviewing and seeing if the designation that people have still fits them. That is not new and that is also from previous periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u339	This is new! You're cutting a quarter of a billion dollars on those groups! All that social talk; you could have skipped them. Answer the question. Are you prepared to delete this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u340	I just answered that question with three letters: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u341	Well, then you can skip the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u342	Mr. Chairman. From January millions of Dutch people will see a substantial reduction in their pay slip, and that was also about time. Yet that is not the most important thing. Success is not primarily in today's purchasing power, but it is in the opportunities for the next generation. D66 has always been in favour of a strong public sector. Investing heavily in our education, care or infrastructure is one of the most sensible things the cabinet does. There are many misunderstandings about how much this cabinet invests. Six billion, to be exact. Is that enough? No, I don't think so. But it's a trend break. It's not an end point. This cabinet invests nearly 2 billion a year in education and knowledge. Good education is the driving force for equal opportunities and an essential condition for a healthy democracy. That's why elementary school teachers are getting their first paycheck next week with an 8.5% higher salary and a gross bonus of about €2,000 next month. Finally a bonus I'm happy with. The investments in the coalition agreement are now really coming to fruition: extra hands in the classroom, the workload goes down, less administration and rules, and more attention, in short, to the lesson. But we keep looking critically at where the money ends up. As far as we are concerned, this goes directly to the schools, to the teachers, to the classroom and not to the drivers. It has been a while since a cabinet invested so much in education, and so I also ask the relevant directors: how and when are you going to include the sector in that mission, so that teachers really get confidence and know that listening is being heard, but also notice that delivery is being made? Because it is delivered: smaller classes, lower workload, more attention to pre-school and early school education, 100 million extra to technical VMBO The MBO had also concluded a nice collective agreement, I understood the teacher register abolished, half the first tuition fee. A politician, chairman, once said: my biggest mistake is that I thought good policy sells itself. And so I warn the rulers of instruction: let them do what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u343	At the risk of getting another three-letter answer: are you prepared to remove the 19 million-dollar cut on MBOs, which means they're going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u344	No, that's a cut on a subsidy that employers get to help people get to work. Out of my mind, there's about 185 million left. We have said that the economy is now attracting more and those employers do not need to get the full pound and there are other ways of achieving the same result. So with a cut where 185 million remains, I think the effect that you and I want together is still guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u345	Secondly, is Mr Pechtold aware that there is more than 160 million in the budget for education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u346	Well, we first had the 500 million left by the PvdA as a gap in the budget, but after we have cleaned that up, and some structural problems from that budget, we do indeed have 1.9 billion extra for education, lumpsum. All those things that are the result of pain and misery have now finally been dealt with under this cabinet, together, I must say, with the Minister of Finance, who is open to that system of which we are all very gallant, to make sure that they know where they stand in schools. But, yes, we've solved the problems, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u347	That wasn't the question. The question was whether Mr Pechtold was aware that his budget had a mission of 160 million in education, for which he was responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u348	Yeah, that's right. And if you add 1.9 billion, you always have to answer, and the education party of the Netherlands first, that you can't just ask for extra money every budget period, but that you can also show the sector: here and there you have to work more efficiently, you have to have less bureaucracy and you have less of those expensive office buildings; not schools, but office buildings. It's okay to put a little pressure on the kettle there, especially if you invest such a huge amount of money in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u349	So that means that if I were to table a motion now that it would not be at the expense of the schools, a kind of motion-Pechtold; I have it with me, just to be sure, do you just vote for it? Because then it will be at the expense of the buildings, but not at the expense of the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u350	I always look at all Mr Asscher's good ideas, but I have become vigilant. Because when he talked about community nursing in the debate on the coalition agreement, we all thought it was a fair question, the whole coalition. But before that, I had that experience with the teacher's salaries. That was just in the transition to the new cabinet. You said, "Let's pay 270 million for these salaries." Well, there was room in the coalition for doing that. I thought that Mr Asscher was satisfied, especially if an additional 450 million a year was added to the workload. And then I hear: it's not enough. So I'm always open to new ideas for education from the PvdA, but I'm going to read the motion carefully first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u351	Good. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u352	Finally. I think that's very wise. I'm not satisfied either; that's right. You are now responsible for an education budget in which you cut back on the intensifications that have been forced by yourself. All I'm saying is, would you vote in favour of the Pechtold motion, which states that it doesn't go at the expense of the schools? Actually, you should. It's a good thing you're going to read her. I'll see how you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u353	Yeah, you can't walk away like that. You just have to have the guts to say to one cabinet for years that money should be added to education, never to deliver, to leave a gap in the budget that a PvdA minister is on, and now to say: there is also money for it to be more efficient, and that should not be allowed, when you wanted to invest 2 billion more than the PvdA in education. I like being open to it. Again, my outstretched hands, but I don't want to get nettles in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u354	One final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u355	I will have to respond to this, because Mr Pechtold is concerned with those outstretched hands. It didn't quite go that way. I know that we were very anxious to remove this nonsense of austerity, but D66 insisted that it stays in the books so that they would invest more cosmetically in education. Yeah, that's how it happened. I don't like it all so much, so I'm not gonna bring it up. I address Mr Pechtold in a very positive, pechtoldian tone, with the question: what if there was a Pechtold motion, which says that it is not at the expense of the schools; would he then vote for it? Then he says, "That's guts!" Yeah, you used to have that guts. It should not be at the expense of the schools either. Otherwise, all the good talk, just like the one about the disabled, is worth nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u356	Nice talk I've been holding there, too. But then if we had people sitting there, then we as D66 also made sure that we delivered. I admit that was not always easy in the previous period. But let's do something with those outstretched hands, or they'll become lame. I'm gonna take a look at that motion. But suddenly, I wouldn't want extra money or cuts. I also see the Minister of Finance looking very worried. He's tall, too, so he looks a little above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u357	Yes. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u358	So I don't think we can do business at this point, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u359	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u360	One more comment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u361	No, it's changed enough, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u362	In the past, Mr Pechtold didn't let it depend on what happened in trade-K what he thought of education, but he had an opinion on it himself. So I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u364	Well, I just said no, too, and now I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u365	The same goes for you, Mr. Pechtold. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u366	Mr. Chairman. The trust between society and politics remains fragile. Is there still sufficient support for political action and intervention? I want this cabinet to work on bringing people into the choices it makes. By that, I do not mean something as flat as turning on an extra PR office for communication about the big self-same. No, a cabinet in which I see many aldermen and pragmatics, threatens to lose people if it can't steal hearts, if it can't tell a story, and especially if it doesn't listen. I want a cabinet that explains complex decisions in an understandable way, so that public communication is also accessible to everyone. There will be an opinion from the Remkes Commission in December on how to draw our democratic rule of law to the present time. I ask: are you waiting for Remkes, or is the cabinet itself already prepared to bring the recommendations here quickly? I expect this cabinet to deliver that. In times of unrest, fake news and complicated messages, independent media is more important than ever. We see in the United States what happens if we don't cherish it. That is why I call on the Cabinet to have an eye for this too. I'd like a reaction, because there's a little dirt left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u367	I have a question for Mr Pechtold. The chairman of the D66 Group in the First Chamber, Professor of English, has proposed that constitutional changes be made easier. What is Mr Pechtold's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u368	Mr. Engels is one of my consciences. So when he says that, it's hard to lose him in there. Do you know what I want to watch out for, Mr. Buma? Now that we are setting up parts of democratic innovations each time and we have finally come to the point of having a committee, the Remkes Committee in this case, give full advice, I would also like to see how one change and the other change relate to each other. Because I want to be with you, I think, to make sure that the Constitution becomes something where ease and the spirit of time fall. On the other hand, I have also noticed that the search for two-thirds of the population, with all the elections, when we used to have a period of four years in between, is also getting worse. So I am not losing Mr Engels, but I hope I am not making you uncomfortable either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u369	That's a narrow cord, but let's not get restless. I'm just giving Mr. Pechtold why I said that. This morning we heard the proposal to make a law prohibiting the Qur'an and such. That's what you have to change the Constitution for. Gradually, it's not just about constitutional changes to get administrative renewals of D66 through, but maybe also about making things happen that we really don't want to. That is why I admit that changing the Constitution faster may be more dangerous than we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u370	Absolutely. Sometimes it's an annoyance, sometimes it's a protection. That's the balance we need to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u371	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u372	Mr President, I will conclude. That must be music in your ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u373	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u374	If you have principles, you must also dare to take government responsibility. If you ask the voters for seats, you have a duty not to sideline them. This cabinet has been working for almost a year now. It is a cabinet that dares to make choices. It's a team of doers and experts. There's a lot of experience there. That's why the bar is high. The rulers have already made a lot of big decisions. Sure, but the best is yet to come. The first year is over; almost three years to go. All the budgets and details will be discussed in the coming weeks, but I dare say today that this cabinet has come out well. There are still many hurdles to take, and now run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u376	I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u377	Mr. Chairman. How sporty that D66 clapping when you give me the floor! I'm sure that's gonna happen more often. Mr. Chairman. Today is a great day of reconciliation, Jom Kippur, the day that Jews fast in the Netherlands and elsewhere and look forward to forgiving their sins. It is the most holy day for believing Jews. I actually think this is appropriate, because we have our heyday here, the holiest day of the political year. That's how I came here this morning, having a good time. I have to say, Mr Buma said a bit about this, that the beginning of this debate was really nothing to show respect for each other and that we are also trying to listen to each other's beliefs, with great differences of opinion but in a decent way. Mr. Chairman. When I talk about reconciliation, of course, it creates expectations. Let's see how far we can get. First of all, I think it is important to note that we are having this debate under very favourable conditions, if you consider that only five years ago the television economists told us that growth would never exceed 1%. See, it's over 2%, compared to 3%. If you realise that in this Chamber three years ago the VVD Group gave the employment policy of the then cabinet an insufficient level and if you consider that there are more jobs now than ever, that is very good news for the people who have jobs. I see that Mr Dijkhoff remembers it. Maybe more importantly, if you see that we now see our own lives more positive, feel safer and help each other over ten years ago, then there is a lot to be thankful for. That is partly of course lucky, because things are getting better in the world, but it is also partly hard work by a lot of people in the country and also by the people there in trade-K. That makes all the more that sometimes I would like to wake them up from the complacent "why isn't there a little more Orange feeling?"-bubble. We just saw a small sample of that in the input of Pechtold. That was a fantastic contribution, but I think it would be fair to wonder why a lot of people don't share that enthusiasm. It's not that hard to find out. I was in Groningen two weeks ago at elementary school De Penning. I had a conversation there with the students about their dreams for later. These dreams are exactly the same as those of all the children, including the children we have met here today, such as the daughter of Mr Dijkhoff and the children of Mr Klaver, who came along. What do kids dream of? Become a top football player. It's my bad karma that I'm standing here at the same time as Ajax's game, but it was also my dream once. Maybe be a doctor or a dancer. But there's also a difference, because I said, "What are your parents doing?" And almost none of those kids' parents had a job. I said, what did you guys do in the summer? And none of those kids would have been on vacation. Yeah, a day at Drenthe with the city pass. Make no mistake, the municipality of Groningen is doing everything it can, and that elementary school is doing everything it can, and yet those children are not given the same chance to pursue their dreams, not the chance we would like to give them. If you look at what is ahead and how we deal with the golden opportunity of these beautiful figures, then it is insufficient and people feel that too little is being looked at in a positive way. In fact, people sometimes get a kick or a punch in the face. Often from the VVD, despite the laughter of the Prime Minister. A message of distrust, a negative message. "People in welfare get too much money. We're gonna have to cut that paycheck. Yeah, they don't have to die, but they have to die." Artists, art... "Hobby," said my esteemed former colleague Mr Wiebes. "You have to be tough with kids. Jobs in the collective sector are, of course, not real jobs in the economy." They're all messages that aren't trusted. Not the message that's needed right now. I heard another one this morning. If you are not from Wassenaar, but from the Schilderswijk: harder punishment! All of those messages that I think are: the VVD and therefore the conservative forces want to tackle everything and everyone, except, of course, the banker, the multinational, the one who makes a hundred times as much money as his own employees. I don't think that's strong. I think there is much more need for a positive message, a message of optimism. I think there's a more positive picture of people, where you see exactly what contributions all these people make. I think there is a need for a more positive, more progressive yes! Social democratic policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u378	I find it a very special reason when you say that people need a more positive story and then you make the story of the other one more negative than it was. I find that curious. I understand you need that first, fight for reconciliation, but maybe we can just skip that fight and look at the problems people have. Problems aren't usually positive. I am very positive about the solution. But in my view, you are making a number of contributions and you are skipping a few public sector investments, you are skipping the fact that my plan, which you have just said with a curious voice, is positive and is aimed at giving people a better future. So I would say, if we want to do it positively, we should both be positive, also about each other, and skip such a negative, weird run-up in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u379	I also think that we should skip the bash of people in the welfare, artists and people in the collective sector. I don't think that's necessary at all. Let's skip that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u380	And then we crack down on bankers who break the law under our eyes. And people, scumbags, wherever they work at the top of big companies, we also tackle hard. And all those other people who work at big and small companies and do their best, we are only positive about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u381	That's great. I knew you could do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u382	Well, I see you can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u383	Yeah, I knew you could do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u384	Then we'll just scrap that negative run-in you just took and then we'll get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u385	Fantastic! The next VVD congress I'm going to follow, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u386	Yes, the previous one was also very positive if you had listened to the whole speech and not just what you made of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u387	You think it's a good thing, say people in welfare get too much money, but I don't think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u388	Neither did I. That's why I didn't say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u389	Yes, you did. You thought the benefit should be reduced. Yeah, not so people would die. That's what you said. I didn't make that up, did I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u390	Then there is Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u391	I'm gonna do my whole speech again. That's easy, that's nice airtime. I said that most people who are of good will and want to move forward would ultimately be better off in my plan. That's what I said. And I think Mr Asscher agrees with me that most of the people in the welfare service are not there for fun. So I don't think if we look positively and with good intentions at the plans, you can turn it into what you just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u392	You are the only Dutchman who has heard a plea for increasing assistance in your own speech. Because there wasn't. Well, that's what you're making now: people who do their best need to get more money. I agree. We can meet today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u393	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u394	Mr President, I welcome the fact that Mr Asscher at least has a positive tone when he's handing out scurvy, but it's not very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u395	Yeah, it's pretty serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u396	Yeah, I think it's a very serious subject, too. And what you're doing with it now, I don't really know, and I don't care, but it certainly doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u397	Okay. If you don't care, I'll talk to the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u398	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u399	The people who are of good will should not have to decline. If in a plan we only look at how we can highlight it so that it fits nicely into the molts and the familiar things, then we never come to new insights and new ideas. Then we're gonna keep doing a little rounds around here and argue. That's nice for small snapshots, but that won't get the Netherlands any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u400	I suggest you proceed, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u401	I would like to point out to my honourable colleague that it really hurts to keep bashing on people who do their best and do not have it so easy at all. That's what I'm pointing out. Then you can say that it was actually meant to be very positive, but that is not how it happened. So that's why I told you I'd be following the next conference very closely. It really didn't happen that way. What people heard is that the VVD wants to lower the benefits again. I think that's a really wrong message. Mr. Chairman. Then what is it? How could it be? What would we want? I think there is a great urgency to do more, despite the plans that I like and which I am extremely pleased with, such as the investments that have been made, to do more than we already do. I think that's the really acute need of this time. If you see that in Amsterdam a few weeks ago a woman from 1942, who was taken into emergency psychiatric care and therefore actually had to go to a nursing home, was not given a place and had to lie in a cell for a number of nights, then human dignity is at stake. I know our prime minister would say that if Unilever left here, we'd be demoted from the honorary division. Well, I find that downgrading from the Honor Division. I'm not saying this is this cabinet's fault, you know, because I'd find that too easy. All I'm saying is that all of us here have an expensive duty to do something about it. If you say as a cabinet that you miss the Orange feeling and you don't get enough compliments, you should actually focus your attention more on that. It would therefore be appropriate for the passion that is now being shown to reward the shameless, in particular, people who have experienced very well that they lost their jobs in the crisis, while a number of large companies have been paying less and less taxes to solve these acute problems from now on. I call upon the Cabinet to do so. A more social democratic or progressive policy would also mean listening to what people are saying on the Erasmus Bridge. Two weeks ago, 12,000 teachers were there. I ran into a teacher, Carlien, who's in special secondary school. Special education for children who need a lot of attention is covered by the same collective agreement as for primary education. She is 46 and told that she was the youngest at her school and that she wanted to work less, but that she is constantly under pressure to teach more. She said, "They don't get the attention they deserve." She's got a stomachache. How come there aren't enough people in this business? Because if you're facing the choice of entering education, that pay gap is a huge problem. I'm really glad there's extra money for education. That's really good. I am certainly pleased with the extra money for the salary, but I think we should say here and agree that we are going to close that pay gap. We shouldn't leave those kids in the cold. The director of an elementary school that I met a few minutes later said that we're actually wasting the future of those kids and therefore our future if we don't solve the teacher shortage that's going on right now. The Prime Minister has seen cuts in education after all. I understand the financial rules, and I think it's all funny. Hoekstra looks strict, but we shouldn't do this right now. We really shouldn't do this. That money needs to go to the teachers. We need extra money to close that pay gap. We're not gonna cut back on the MBOs. Mr. Chairman. If you look at these differences, I will not repeat any voices, certainly not Mr Dijkhoff's, then you will see a very large gap on the subject. For us living is a fundamental right and for this cabinet living seems to be mainly a market. You can see the results. There's a housing shortage. He's really back. Tenants are trapped. The rent allowance is being cut by this cabinet by the deletion of the can-determine. That just means less money for people who need it. Starters on the housing market don't intervene in many places. In my city, Amsterdam, the madness is complete. This means that no teacher or agent who wants to work there can find a home there, nor can the next generation and the children of the MPs present here. We have to do something about that, in the rent and in the sale. The cabinet sees this problem and then says: what we are going to do; we come with consultative tables for middle hire. Well, I just had a debate with Mr Buma on what Jan Schaefer would say about that, but you can't live in a consultation table in the middle! That's actually worse than bullshit. Mr. Chairman. That needs to be dealt with now. That means it takes money to build more. This means that money is needed and that there is room for the corporations to invest. And that means we don't have to cut rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u402	I remember the period before the settlement agreement. At that time, the cabinet wanted to get more than 2 billion of the levy out of my head, I say 2.1 billion of the levy. We then said in the agreement with the C3 that this could be a little less. That's when we reached 1.7 billion. And now another 100 million goes from it in a structural way to ensure that other securities that also affect housing corporations are covered up in any case for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u403	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u404	My question is: do we keep together the incentive to build houses and make them sustainable? I would like to mention the provinces that want to invest in them, the municipalities and, above all, the corporations where I believe there are still some 10 billion on the table. It is about the incentive to put them to work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u405	Certainly, all appreciation for the fact that there is now an extra 100 million from the landlord's tax. I think that's very important. My main concern now is this. There's gonna be a technical moment for the viewers right now. This reduction seems to be counting. This is a question to the cabinet for 400 million. It's very negative. The cabinet has succeeded in excluding infrastructure from this. Wouldn't it be good if we also excluded the corporations from that? Because that wasn't really what it was meant for. It's actually a punishment for investing, when we should want there to be ambition. You see, I'm really trying to talk in "Pechtoldtaal." Ambition, building more, and then you have to reward them, just when they're building houses. So if we could agree to that, then something's gonna happen in the housing business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u406	Then we can agree. But let us maintain here that if there is 10 billion in the corporations on the shelf, if the cabinet ensures that negative effects of shifts and taxes are covered again, we will all just say to these corporations as well: boys, there is an assignment with you now, not to tell The Hague what can't be done all the time, but to just show what can. I think that is very important, even if we get involved in technology. I hope the PvdA will say that with D66 and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u407	If we can eliminate that risk of 400 million, I am sure that will succeed. Then we have achieved something. Mr. Chairman. When you think about the question of what makes man certain of his existence, it is about living, but then of course it is also about working. That is where the contrast between the announcements and the fine intentions of the cabinet and what we are seeing now is quite considerable. When the cabinet took office, it indicated that self-employed workers should be better protected. We have not really heard so much about this, but the problem is very big. Yes, there are many more jobs, but the inequality is huge. The photographers who make us look bad all day are generally not insured. And so there are a lot of self-employed people who, when they get into an accident, are alone and left to their fate. I don't think we should want to. I do not think it is appropriate in a social country to dump the risks on the shoulders of people who really want to work, but who do not always choose to work. There was a lot of support in this Chamber to deal with Deliveroo when delivery men were suddenly pushed into thezzp-ship there. The judge has said: the legislator is up. I haven't heard from the cabinet at this point. It is really very important that that happens. If there are any good proposals, I would also like to support them. I would like nothing more than to ensure that self-employed workers also have greater security of living in that labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u408	I agree, but dealing with independence and false self-employment is something we have been working on in politics for years now. But you call it insurance. Look, your camera will fall in the Knight's Room when you're not paying attention! I believe we have that photographer in our midst right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u409	He's embarrassed behind his plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u410	The Prime Minister has already announced that the worst picture of me will be forwarded to the editors. But that depends on the camera! There are, of course, possibilities as a collective guarantee, because I want to make that point. But I agree with you that, if independence is apparent or enforced, we must call on the cabinet, and certainly the minister who has been talking about it in recent years, to do something about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u411	Luckily, it was his camera and it wasn't him. I think we're all happy about that. If a photographer breaks his arm, he's not insured at all. That's what I'm talking about. If you become disabled or become sick as a self-employed person, there is no safety net. There are possibilities to insure you, but the cynical thing is that it's far too expensive, especially for people with these kinds of professions, to do so. This applies to many people who are now self-employed. They're actually worried, because what happens to the family when bad luck hits you, especially if you have a family with two self-employed people? That is what I am talking about and I think that we have a greater responsibility than saying: you can be assured. No, social security is also there to share risks. When people work, they also need to be protected. You have to be sure of your existence. There is also a need for more initiative from this cabinet to defend, promote and protect equality, the fight against discrimination and the rights of men and women. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he views the initiative proposal, including the Labour Party, in order to enforce equal pay for men and women. It's a shame it has to take so long. I have already mentioned our initiative, together with GroenLinks, to provide the abortion pill through the GP. It's a muddy figure like the cabinet handled it, but I think it's important that coalition parties have the space to look at it freely. Because yes, it does add a lot to women's lives if they do not have to go to a complicated anonymous clinic, but can go to their own trusted general practitioner. On this point, the cabinet must and can do better than it is now. Mr. Chairman. There is therefore room for a more social, progressive social-democratic policy. I'm gonna keep going on that pay gap. In Zaanstad there is a four-day school week. Why don't we call that a state of emergency? Why is this not being used as an important breaking point in terms of the rules of the game to do something extra for these children now? Where did this lack of compliments and trust come from? You can almost see Pechtold saying it, and you can almost see the cabinet thinking: there's 1.5%, isn't there? I'm very happy about that. People need a little more space in the wallet, but behind that 1.5% on our purchasing power point cloud, people need to be valued, respected and seen. Then they truly do not understand that this cabinet chooses to reduce the income tax and abolish the dividend tax. We have heard all kinds of arguments for it and new ones today: we will abolish it, because there will be a legal risk. The Prime Minister said it is an irresponsible risk, with the structure of our economy. Buma said it's about 2 million jobs. What we're actually seeing is four frat balls behaving badly at a party. The cock does damage, because it has to and it will. And yes, the Prime Minister is lonely on this point. He's the one who believes in this measure, along with his own fibers and Paul Polman. One boyfriend does even cooler and says: it's about 2 million jobs, I believe it is. The third one changes in strategy: we would have preferred to spend it on education, but we think it's important, so it has to be. The fourth actually washes his hands in innocence and pisses a melon. But it's gonna happen. It's gonna happen and it's gonna piss people off and it's gonna make people cynical. No misunderstanding: I have nothing against large companies, quite the contrary. Big companies are very welcome here. But they have to obey the law instead of dictateing the law to us. They are getting a lot in return: a fantastic country - we have just heard the rankings again - with a well-educated workforce, with links to the world and with a stable democracy. A fantastic country where you can trade with the whole of the European Union. But with that country, with that country's values, it's part of that country's DNA that you also contribute to other people's chances. And then you're not gonna piss on the dividend tax if there's any kids going to school without breakfast. And then you don't go to the Tower. You should not ask what Rutte can do for you, you should ask what you can do for all those ordinary Dutch who do not benefit, who are not a foreign shareholder. That's what you have to do! And, Mr President, as long as the cabinet does not come back from that, it is right that there is such criticism, it is right that this is called the Shell I or Unilever I cabinet. Buma just said, "Go talk to an employee like that." Well, that's good if it's not the top man. I've been looking up one of Unox's employees, Alex den Brok, 27 years Unox. Is that Unilever? Yes. Oh, no. Sold last year. Because Unilever has actually disposed of almost all production jobs. The shareholders told me to. I told him, "Oh, Alex, how nice is it that our Prime Minister wants to abolish this dividend tax for you with the help of Buma? How great is that? Have you heard of it? Are you talking about it at work?" He's a herb mixer and he said, "I know the secret to the recipe of the smoke sausage on your plate. And yes, they're talking about it at work, the dividend tax." And you know what he said? "I'd rather they spend it on people who have the poor." He said, "I'm done having fun with those shareholders. Those shareholders don't want my pay to go up. They want those jobs sold. They want to shut down the factories. Shouldn't you spend that money here in the Netherlands?" And I thought, "Alex not only knows more about that sausage, but also about what would be wise right now." Mr. Chairman. The key question in this debate is whether this Prime Minister, in his lonely journey into the dead end, is prepared to turn around, to pursue another policy, to listen to the voice of the people rather than the voice of the CEOs, the voice of the money. And, Mr. Chairman, that is necessary. That's necessary! The Netherlands is facing an incredibly important time with great challenges. They came through here. This cabinet has said not to want to rule with that narrowest base. The King was still talking about a cabinet a hundred years ago that did it. I think that is right, because the challenges facing us require more support than a majority of one. But then you have to listen. Then you must not react so arrogantly to every intervention and every suggestion from this Chamber. These challenges require much broader support. We talked about climate change. Yeah, we're all gonna have to do that in a way that creates jobs and that's fair. We talked about migration. I am in favour of putting a state committee to work and thinking about it. I am in favour of thinking about a more humane, more human system, where we receive refugees without having those cynical boat trips on our consciences. That's what I'm here for. I am in favour of a Europe in which we stand up to all those authoritarian leaders around us. That's what I'm here for. And here comes, um... At the word "authoritarian leaders"...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u412	Mr. Buma!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u413	Exactly. That right of interruption must be abolished, but while there is still... I'm just gonna take a look at the state committee. I ask Mr Asscher whether he too is prepared to look at the Refugee Convention. I realize that that has a great status, but if we're honest, we can't avoid adapting it to the demands of time. So my question is, are you willing to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u414	I do not share Mr Buma's conviction, but I think that committee should be able to look at everything. I believe that the treaty requires us to offer people safety and that this is also an obligation that we should never let go of. But I think that committee should look at everything. I think they should also look at how to deal better with labour migration within the European Union, a subject that has not really been addressed, but which in my view has been one of the causes of Brexit. I find it too easy to say: that is now over. I think better solutions are needed there. If you put such a committee to work, I would like it to be that the debate on migration is not always a debate in which everyone accuses the other of wrong intentions. Not that you just did, Mr. Buma, but it happens quite often in that debate. I would like it if we could have a rational debate on this and then I will always defend that we should receive refugees in the Netherlands. But let that committee do its job. Mr. Chairman. Globalisation presents us with the task of maintaining our openness and, at the same time, of regulating and tame it much better, and of forcing guarantees that large global trade flows do not lead to the exploitation of workers here, but also not to exploitation in countries elsewhere. It's not that easy. We will have to do so in a European context. The technological change offers us great opportunities to make the lives of a lot of people much better, but here too we need to draw a line, to stand up for the fact that not all the data we produce together become owned by a number of large, low-taxing American companies. For the parents of children of primary school age, I would like to ask who now has the data of Fortnite. I see a couple of parents nodding worried. Minors play that game, find it. It's of enormous value, data about children who are now underage and later mature. Their behavior is mapped. Let's embrace progress, but let's make it work for us. Mr. Chairman. The most important thing we can do to prepare our country for the future is to use this golden moment in our economy better than we do now. This means that we should not continue with the pile of gifts for companies that are not having a hard time at all. It also means that we now have to invest in education, in health care. I am very proud of the proposals I have presented to you with Jesse Klaver and Lilian Marijnissen, because it is important that you show us alternatives. This would enable us not only to see the satisfaction of this cabinet here, but to show the Dutch that we have not only heard cynicism about politics, but actively combat it. For me, that is the core question of this day. The Cabinet responds on Friday. The different parties replied on Friday. Are we all going for a more positive, more progressive, more social-democratic answer to the questions of our time? Or is this coalition with its 76's going to march on to the size of the stock exchanges? We're gonna live to see it. It's Day of Atonement. Surprise me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u415	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u416	Madam President. Prince's Day was a sunny day and the cabinet had a nice message. Unemployment is falling, and around 96% of Dutch people are improving. For an average family, this means an extra €500 per year. After the biggest economic crisis after the Second World War, that is good news. The figures look even better than the first predictions before the summer. The cabinet has been able to do a little bit more for low incomes and that is good work. Households with only one income, the so-called sole earners, who, like no other group, have seen their purchasing power fall in recent years, are at last making a first catch-up. That too is good news. Madam President. The economic recovery has many fathers. As a coalition party and a member of the former 'constructive three' I count my blessings, but a party that should also be mentioned here is the Labour Party. It was this party that for five years felt the responsibility for overcoming the economic crisis and took that responsibility. In all the differences of opinion that exist and continue to exist, the recognition of them also fits. Thank you. The economy is doing well, but is our country okay? No matter how beautiful, money and income are not an end in themselves. They are means for a good life, good living together. Recently I spent a day with Henk Willem van Dorp. He is the owner of a large installation company that he once started himself and that grew into a beautiful company with more than 1,200 employees. His company also now benefits from economic growth. He writes nice black numbers. But what really drives him is the concern for creation, the shift to renewable energy, the sustainability of houses. He controls his business in a social way, by sharing profits among his employees, by spending part of the profits on charities and by striving for a fixed percentage of workers who are remote from the labour market. Not profit is sacred. It's necessary, I'm sure, but it's not sacred. The care of men and the creation is sacred to him. What applies to Van Dorp installations also applies to our country and should also apply to the cabinet. This cabinet has planned to bridge gaps, to reduce contradictions. I will keep reminding the cabinet of this mission. This is urgently needed in view of the social state of the Netherlands. This year, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of Kim Putters has once again outlined the social state of the Netherlands. That too sometimes looks suspiciously like a sunny Princess' Day, because we have a high quality of life. The level of education is increasing. The number of crime victims is falling. Most Dutch feel healthy. Life expectancy is rising. Meanwhile, the cabinet invests over 6 billion in education, in care, in security and in public administration. Good collective agreements have been concluded. An additional billion a year is invested in families. That's all good and necessary, and yet... The economy is doing well, but is our society doing well? We cannot relieve people's real concerns by appealing to the billions that this cabinet invests in society. The worries aren't gone either if you want to put a 2 billion-dollar scoop on top of that. For we see that our society is becoming increasingly divided, that the differences between us are becoming more persistent and that concerns about our ways of dealing are increasing. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau notes that we are increasingly different from each other, because of our education, cultural background and age. The baking bike parents don't know the now famous Henk and Ingrid at all, and vice versa. The Saabrijder with spencer has no idea of the world of life of a Moroccan-Dutch kickboxer and vice versa. The stressed, hardworking parents of three busy teenagers have a completely different life than the older ones who regularly feel lonely. Perhaps I should add that an average archbishop and a friendly Liberal group leader also have little understanding of each other. And never the twain shall meet. Only if Frisian youth block the way for anti-Black Piet activists, very different people meet for the duration of an afternoon, but it didn't come to a good conversation at the time. Madam President. What is at stake in a tribal society is society itself, the willingness to learn from one another, to take care of each other, and the will to take a little account of each other, to grant the other his freedom, his faith, his doubt and his disbelief. When columnist Bas Heijne had to summarize the gospel and he had to translate it "love your enemies" for secular Dutch people, it came together for him in the call: come out of your bubble. There are at least two places in our society where we come out of our bubble and where very different people meet, poor and rich, highly educated and low educated, employer and employee, native and Dutch people with a migration background. The first place is the church square. For the sake of good understanding within the coalition, I would like to mention just as quickly the second place, the sports field, or if you like, opposition, the sports canteen. If society is dear to us, we cherish our church squares and sports fields and give space to religion and sport. Madam President. Fortunately, we can also do more than cherish church square and sports field. The start of social service this week is very hopeful. It is a wonderful tool to take young people out of their bubble and to have a wonderful experience in caring for others; care for the elderly, for nature, for that sports association. 15,000 young people are about to start, and that is going to be a lot more. My question to the Prime Minister is how we are going to speed up this important project. How do we practically ensure that, to quote the king, we don't just live side by side but live much more with each other? This cabinet also makes work of dignified ageing, with which we want to strengthen the link between generations, combat loneliness and overcome the gap between young and old. Such plans for the revaluation of old age and for voluntary organisations working with older people and increasing well-being strengthen our society. Public service broadcasting is also one of those marketplaces of our time, where very different people meet. It has two pillars: external pluralism and qualitative news and expression of opinion. I am concerned about how safe these pillars are in the current system and the current media landscape. Public service broadcasting may still be there for everyone, but less and less of everyone. In my opinion, anyone who is allowed to broadcast when or when should be more democratic and therefore more influential by viewers and groups of society. Where the NPO has a big line through, for example, I mention what was threatening to set up religious programs, I would also say here: cherish this square for our differences and for the good conversation about it. If we want to maintain the quality of news and public opinion at a time when facts are becoming less and less important, it would be good to settle the Berlin Wall between public service broadcasting, newspapers and other news companies. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the cabinet intend to work on the future of a multiform and quality public system that can withstand the changes in the media landscape? Madam President. According to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, an important factor in people's well-being is the extent to which they direct their lives. People who experience that they have direction over their lives give their lives on average an 8.4. People who don't feel that give that a 6.3. Whether it's education, care, your living environment or your local government, it's crucial that people regain control and ownership. The coalition agreement has written nice intentions about this such as space for cooperatives for renewable energy and the so-called right to challenge, where a neighborhood can take over a neighbourhood centre for example. What's going on with these plans? How can we give people more ownership and control over public services? Madam President. Prince's Day was a beautiful, festive day. And yet, despite all those slings that were hung, there are also people who think these days: this is not about me, this is not my party, my life is outside that point cloud of that purchasing power festival, I fall outside the recently concluded collective agreements in which decent wage increases have been agreed. The economy is doing well, but are our young people doing well? If there's a group that has a lot on their plate, they're young people. Two years ago, together with KBO-PCOB and Omroep MAX, we wrote the Manifest Ageing. I think it's time for the manifesto to be rather young. It is the first time since World War II that a generation of young people have grown up that is worse off than their parents. On average, 35-year-olds earn less than their parents earn at that age. Especially for that group of least-earning young people, it is increasingly difficult to become a quarter of a dime. Young people find it harder to get a permanent job, more often suffer from more debt and less quickly buy a house. They build up a pension less quickly or they don't build up a pension at all. There is a great responsibility here for the Minister for Social Affairs, who is certainly also the Minister for Youth. It is crucial for young people to have a sustainable pension system and therefore to have a reform based on solidarity between old and young. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister about that. It is also very important for young people to reduce the gap between flexicurities and permanent employment. In this area, too, a warm encouragement to take up the proposed legislation. Madam President. What I am deeply concerned about among young people are the increasing debts that students incur. Every second the national student debt increases by €55. If I'm to believe ISO's student debt gauge, the total student debt is already over 20 billion. This is becoming increasingly a millstone around the neck of our youngest generation. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this should be high on the agenda. Now the cabinet has presented an ambitious debt approach, but the perspective of young people can be even stronger in this respect as far as I am concerned. Because it is crucial that young people are already working on knowledge about money and the prevention of debt. I therefore call on the Cabinet to involve youth organisations and student organisations specifically in this broad debt approach, so that joint efforts can be made to prevent problematic debt and awareness about borrowing. Madam President. A group that may have looked at our feast of Princess Day with some alienation are those young people who are less likely to enter the labour market than students and who are also suffering from debt and poverty. Probably didn't watch Prince's Day at all. That's how far their world is from ours. The more important it is that we look back at them. We are a rich country and we must not rely on children to grow up in poverty, that young people's debts destroy their opportunities and that vulnerable young people cannot find work. In view of them, it would be good to release EUR 25 million for the implementation of the covenant of children in poverty, for additional money for voluntary organisations such as SchuldHelpMaatje, Humanitas and the Salvation Army helping people out of their debt and for the third point on job opportunities for vulnerable young people in secondary special education and practical education. Just at a time when we are doing well economically and the average purchasing power figures are wonderful, we must keep looking at the people who are left behind, at those who were thinking yesterday "and this is not about me'. I want to think about them and I want to do it for them. Madam President. Especially when it comes to the future of our young people, we are also talking about the earth that we are passing on to them. Our children and grandchildren deserve a clean environment, an economy that does not waste materials, but reuses them and an agriculture that must become a circular agriculture. I do not want to shift the huge cost of climate change to future generations. With the broad signing of the Climate Act, we are taking a significant step towards the Paris climate goals. I am confident in the innovative strength of our business, but I also look forward to the further implementation of the climate agreement. Madam President, I have one more concern that I would like to share with the cabinet. We have talked a lot today about good living together, and that is precisely why I would like to urge the Prime Minister to raise the issue of the position of refugees in Lesbos and other Greek islands when he travels to Brussels tomorrow. Their situation is sometimes degrading, shameful and sometimes even dangerous. I urge the Prime Minister to work for better conditions and a solution to the situation at the European summit tomorrow. I'll come to a conclusion. At the beginning of my contribution I referred to Henk van Dorp, an entrepreneur for whom profit is important, but not an end in itself, an entrepreneur who bridges gaps in his business and an entrepreneur for whom care for creation and care for people is central. That's what I want to tell the cabinet. Sure, growth is important. But only if everyone counts, if we have an eye for our young people and our elders, if we cherish our church squares, sports canteens and sports fields and if we take good care of the creation. Only then is our economy not only going well, but step by step also better with our country. In this important work, I wish God's blessing to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u417	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u418	Thank you, Mr President. Many people are deeply concerned, I am deeply concerned, about the state of the environment, about the state of the country and about the state of politics. Last week, the Central Bureau of Statistics announced that with the current emissions of CO, we are still a long way from the Paris climate targets. In spring, the joint planning agencies in the book De Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands showed that the prosperity in the Netherlands has grown, but that we have been running backwards in well-being for 40 years. Last month, EenVandaag announced that more than half of the Dutch did not notice the economic recovery. On Monday CBS announced that people in our country are very concerned about the environment. Seven out of ten people see that nature has been severely damaged. And 90% say they're very worried about that. And this spring, Rabobank announced that the disposable income of Dutch households has not increased for 40 years. Teachers, nurses and police officers stop and demonstrate because of low rewards, high workload, stress and burn-outs. The Millions note exudes a completely different reality. The cabinet speaks positively of ambitious environmental objectives, of substantial investment in society and of sound budgetary policies. The Millions note claims that the Netherlands is doing well because the economy continues to grow, households are going to consume more, companies are going to invest more and house prices are continuing to rise. As if the well-being of Dutch people coincides with the increase in gross domestic product. Nothing about the lame sustainability performance of the Netherlands. Not a word about the social fuss about the abolition of the dividend tax. No sign of the deep scars that have left ten years of crisis in society. Not a word about the breach of trust between citizens and politics. Mr President, this is the 12th Millions note that I am allowed to comment on. I have never seen such complacent political propaganda. It grows into economic self-congratulations. The ecological and social costs are being shifted to future generations. Or they can be shifted to businesses and citizens, who have to decide between themselves who does what and who takes the fall for what. People, animals, nature and climate are the children off the bill. And I haven't even mentioned the meaningless purchasing power tags that have been leaked, under the motto: satisfied citizens don't complain. But the predictions are based on quicksand. That is not my position, but the Central Planning Office itself thinks so. For years there has been talk of a disgrace of populists who would be doing facts-free politics. Well, if that's the definition of populism, then this cabinet can do some of it. Once upon a time, the Millions note was a reliable factual account of the government budget and government policy intentions. This is what citizens expect from politics. It must be fair, reliable and transparent. If not Rutte III. While the VVD goes from one affair to another, the cabinet shows with this propaganda that it does not take the citizen seriously, that its own image is more important than people's concerns and that it does not care about the deep breach of confidence between politicians and citizens who have caused ten years of crisis. Mr President, according to the Millions Note, the cabinet takes exactly the wrong measures, and let short-term interests always outweigh long-term interests. The cabinet is proud of its sensible budgetary policy. It is proud that the budget surplus is being used to pay off the public debt and that, in its own words, it does not transfer the account to our children. But when it comes to our climate, the cabinet does so in every way. And how! Delay and delay is what beats the clock. The cabinet lays the responsibility for sustainability in business and civil society organisations, and deinst back legal sanctions. As a result, three years after Paris, we are still polding and getting the targets out of sight. Former crown member of the Economic and Social Council Klaas van Egmond says: poldering is sabotaging, stop it! Let the big business take part in the decision on laws and rules that increase their costs? That's not gonna work. You're not gonna let an offender decide on the level of his punishment? Shell's lead boss thinks it is perfectly normal to publicly demand that taxpayers, you and I, help the billion-dollar company financially to meet its environmental obligations, and so it can still not be ruled out that the costs of implementing the climate agreement will be borne by citizens and that the billion-dollar subsidies for large business will be maintained. And, Mr President, the same applies to agricultural policy. Agriculture, and livestock farming in particular, has major problems: agricultural poison, ammonia, particulate matter, soil pollution, animal suffering and food scandals. If we do nothing, livestock farming will in 2050 absorb all the permitted amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands. More and more experts, such as the Environment Council, say that we are not going to achieve the climate objectives without a radical reduction in our livestock, and thus a reduction in our meat consumption, and thus a radical change in our food production. Because: the longer we wait, colleagues, the harder and more expensive it will be for farmers to switch. But what does the Cabinet do? It continues to seek refuge in subsidies for manure fermenters and air scrubbers and allows for further intensification and scaling up in livestock farming. The reduction of livestock is taboo, is anxiously avoided. And the argument? The Netherlands wants to be the butcher and milkman of Europe, and preferably also of China, Japan and Australia. Shortsighted economic interests outweigh the welfare of animals and humans, more than the climate. The same applies to the other sacred cow: aviation in general and Schiphol in particular. These, too, make a substantial contribution to our ecological footprint, although these emissions are excluded and the aviation lobby has managed to avoid the Paris agreement. And here too: above all, rely on solutions such as biokerosin. And yes, the cabinet re-introduces, after it's ruled out, the flight tax, but keeps it so low that a sandwich in the Thalys costs more. It still does not charge any VAT on kerosene, but on tap water, does not interfere with the expansion plans of Schiphol, Lelystad, Eindhoven and other airports, and undermines unpleasant reports on this by hiring self-colored counterexpertise. It trusts that polluters will stop polluting on their own. Slide and slide, even here. I can only conclude that Rutte III continues on the path taken by previous Cabinets: to create a welfare state for multinationals by beating up the welfare state for people. The large business is paying less and more and more people are paying more and more. Since 1980, corporate tax rates have been halved, and Rutte III wants to reduce them further. Costs: nearly 3 billion euros per year. Much has already been said and written about the abolition of the dividend tax. Apart from the Prime Minister, no one knows why it is happening, no voter has voted for it and no one understands its logic. This account may also be paid by citizens, inter alia by increasing VAT on basic necessities from 6% to 9%. According to the Cabinet, abolition is good for everyone, while we all know it's good for only one company: Unilever. Mr. Chairman. The Millions note is pure propaganda. Even more sad is it when you read the passages on the reduction of corporate tax. Under international pressure, the cabinet is finally going to do something about the tax avoidance by multinationals. It's about time, you think. But what does Rutte III do next? The Cabinet compensates multinational companies for the loss of circumvention opportunities by lowering corporate tax rates. It's rewarding the thief for his theft by giving him the loot. Mr. Chairman. We face unprecedented challenges. Climate change has become almost irreversible. Climate refugees are heading our way if we can't keep the temperature rise below 1.5°C. Nature beeps and creaks. Water scarcity is imminent. Soil quality is decreasing. The diversity of species is rapidly decreasing. The inequalities between people in terms of life opportunities and opportunities for development have increased sharply during the crisis, including in the Netherlands. Young people are less likely to have a permanent job and other colleagues have already said it and thus less chance of retirement. They're less likely to have a house. They have to pay more for their education and put themselves deeper into the student debt, debt on which they have to pay more interest when it comes to the cabinet plans. Since the start of the crisis, global debt has increased by 50%. But our ecological debt has also increased. Earth Overshoot Day fell on 1 August this year, and in the Netherlands on 14 April. That's the earliest date ever. What does that date mean? On that date, on 14 April, we have already prepared all the raw materials and resources that the Earth can produce each year. So the other months we live on the puff of future generations. And every year that date shifts a bit to earlier in the year. We live as if we have almost two globes at our disposal. In the Netherlands we even live as if we have 3.5 globes at our disposal. In doing so, we are taking an ever-increasing advance on the future. It's us who let that happen. It's not a natural phenomenon. So it is we who can do something about it, and we must do something about it, if only for our children and grandchildren. This Millions note is really a missed opportunity. The cabinet congratulates itself on irrelevant figures and pushes forward what is really important, namely an environment policy with teeth, while it is really not so difficult and there would have been much more possible within the framework of this coalition agreement. Why is the tax reform not used to give real value to CO emissions? Why is the increase in VAT not used to make sustainable consumption cheaper and unsustainable consumption more expensive? Why not introduce a meat tax and a vegetable and fruit bonus at the same time? Why not start with the end of the bio-industry, if you know that the current size of the livestock is unsustainable? Why is the income of the dividend tax not earmarked for sustainable investments, such as the gas-freeing of Dutch houses? It could have been a wonderful way of getting the big business to pay for the sustainability of the Netherlands, instead of letting only citizens pay for it. And why isn't there going to be a real flight tax? "The polluter pays" may now become a reality. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. I am not suggesting that this is the answer to all our challenges, but it is first steps that Rutte III is not taking. It points in a direction, a direction the cabinet doesn't point. Continue on the old growth path, that's what the cabinet does. As if the crisis had not demonstrated the total bankruptcy of neoliberal growth thinking. As if there was no need for plan B, although we know there is no planet B. This cabinet is trying to make desperation convincing instead of hope possible. The cabinet no longer tries to move people with the power of dreams, but with the fear of nightmares. "If we do not abolish the dividend tax, jobs will disappear. If we do not give the European Union more power, we will lose it from the emerging economies. If we do not conclude free trade agreements, our prosperity will disappear. If we don't merge hospitals, we can't guarantee care." Fear, fear and thinking in impossibilities. Many people are fed up with the fact-finding policy and longing for a policy that looks beyond the limits of the feasible and that is not intimidated by the existing but is looking for the possible, especially now that the limits of growth and growth fetish have become so clear. That is what the political citizens should offer: hope, hope for a life that offers each of us sufficient opportunities for life and development within the limits of the earth. This requires a new social contract, not just for people but for the whole planet and all its inhabitants, human beings and animals; from "human central" thinking to "eco central" thinking. Mr. Chairman. How is it that the cabinet has not yet started the system change that follows? How come the cabinet has so little sense of what people's real concerns are? Part of the answer is the unhealthy Dutch tendency to declare the compromise sacred in politics. How come we're so fixated on that? We have seen this before: political opponents who, with a card game, forged a coalition agreement that was bound by contradictions and then held each other in a political grip for four years; compromise. Coalition formation is no longer a means of achieving political ideals, but an end in itself, even if the ideals must depart from them. The examples at Rutte III are for picking up. In the Blok affair, a played apology from Minister Blok was enough to keep a fact-free minister on board, where the entire DNA of the Christian Union and D66 rebelled. We see it in the dividend tax: D66 and the Christian Union don't like this measure, but just like Block: everything for the government agreement. In the words of Sybrand Buma of the CDA: "The fiscal agreement is good for the coalition." The argument is always the same: we have received so much in return. But none of the parties has apparently checked whether the whole thing is good for humans, animals and nature. The parties' interest clearly outweighs the general interest. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the core of my concerns. During the four cabinets that I have seen passing, politics has become more technocratic, more and more detached from the citizens and increasingly dependent on the economic interests of multinationals. If there is anything to be said about the tax on dividends, it is that the relations between the cabinet and the business community are far too close. The Prime Minister and successive Ministers of Economic Affairs have had dozens of talks with the presidents of multinationals. The current Minister for Economic Affairs even put together a genuine prayer book, in which he spent hundreds of hours working to get Unilever's head office to the Netherlands. Lobbyists of the big business run the door to ministers and the representatives of the people and politicians do not hesitate to cash their political capital into lobbyists and multinationals. It is democratic blurring on a large scale, on an unprecedented scale. You see it everywhere. Shell and other major polluters can join climate tables and decide on the rules they will have to comply with later, just like the agricultural lobby, which also had great successes during the formation, so nothing happened. ING's lawyers also made such a fine business............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Convicted environmental criminals are allowed to contribute to new environmental legislation. Banks come during the Week of Money to explain to primary school children how saving and borrowing works. Apparently, you can't start guilt early enough. The brutality, after the crisis we've had thanks to them. Shell and Unilever co-finance research or commission it. Shell even supplies guest lecturers technology and controversial educational material to poor schools with a shortage of teachers. The food industry that makes mega-profits on junk food and is therefore directly responsible for the obesity epidemic is strongly represented in the national prevention agreement to prevent obesity. This is irresponsible and shortsighted. The close relations with the large business damage the prestige of the political office and of our democracy, one of the oldest in the world. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of whom is the prime minister in trade union "K"? Who's he representing? I can only conclude, and more and more citizens with me, that the Prime Minister is shielding with the public interest to serve the private interests of some. It is unworthy of a Prime Minister and unworthy of a democracy. We've been guessing about the motives for a very long time. Is it out of contempt for parliament? Dumbness? Because it's possible? Out of short-sightedness? Greed? Because it's a promise, isn't it? I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what inspired him to deal so recklessly with the public interest, the social standing of his office, politics and parliamentary democracy. I would like to hear from him why he is so careless about the interests of our children and grandchildren, of animals and nature. In this context, too, I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u419	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u420	Madam President. 50PLUS does not only move into the country in the four weeks before the elections. That's what we do at other times. Two weeks ago, our staff and four group members went on a bus tour of a large number of municipalities where we were so successful during the last council elections. And that's instructive, because just outside this building you can hear what's living in society. You will notice time and time again that the Netherlands is a beautiful country to live in, but the people we spoke to also think that our country is in decline; decay in many areas. Think of the balding in the public sector. People at home have a lot of concerns about that. Of course, my supporters complain about the fact that the AOW is not prosperous. And outright anger is about the fact that the government intervenes in the possibilities of indexing most pensions through artificially low interest rates. There is even a threat of discounts for millions of participants, even though some sectors have already been cut short. And yes, we see the Prime Minister now rehearsing all his corny answer that he wouldn't go over it. People at home know better. They also designate him and with him the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union as the culprits in sticking to rules that put older people behind for ten years by making previously promised indexations impossible. They disgust that they were good enough when they had to help from the moment the crisis broke out and are dumped now that the crisis is over. Year after year they were not allowed to benefit from the recovery. And again, the cabinet decided that workers in particular could enjoy pluses. In 2016, they received around 5 billion. Then you can't sell the loves for the elderly if you know that during the crisis, of all things, pension assets more than doubled from 700 to more than 1,450 billion euros. And yes, after all the zeal of 50PLUS, there is a plus in the plans for 2019 for the elderly, but after the previous pluses that have been predicted in recent years and that have been loved afterwards, I think: first see, then believe. It is precisely in a year with at least two important elections that I understand that this cabinet does not want to drive half of the 50-plus voters into the arms of my party. But after all the minuses of the last nine years, this plus isn't nearly enough. They do not close the purchasing power gap between workers and those who have worked hard. And no, Madam President, I don't have a graph on me this time, but it's still engraved on everyone's retina. In 2017 and 2018 that gap became much larger and will certainly not be reduced in 2019. There's more people are angry about. The most commonly mentioned is the resistance to the abolition of dividend taxation. And the criticism of the Council of State was not mild either. Angry people are also by not solving the elderly unemployment. At the moment, about 140,000 elderly people are looking for a job. They are also angry about holding hard at an ever increasing AOW age, while there is no eye for people who thought with difficulty to reach the 65. A rich country like the Netherlands can afford an AOW age of 65 years. It's a matter of civilisation. It's a political choice. Parents have the best interests with their children and grandchildren, but also young people feel abandoned. Last week, the news reported more often today that part of today's 30s is worse off than their parents. This also applies to the lowest income group. They become increasingly difficult to find a permanent job and their own home becomes even more an illusion. Studying is increasingly difficult for our youth, and there is another gap between rich and poorer families. Such developments. People are rightly annoyed by the fact that there are abuses at UWV and ING. They've had enough of all the bullshit. Think of the news about the fraudulent Poland and grabbed by the big boys who always escape, while a welfare mom has to answer for a tenner. People at home see the members of the coalition parties no longer as representatives of the people but as politicians who let the self-interest, the party interest for the public interest go. The coalition agreement has become a dictation with 76 members as a voter. In this way, the confidence elevates and we are being taken less and less seriously by the people at home here in The Hague. We must not ignore that. Now it is only indignation and apathy, but if we do not turn the tide, I sincerely fear that our democracy may be shaken. Each of us has to take care of that. 50PLUS therefore looks forward with extraordinary interest to the opinion of the State Committee on Parliament's system. The people in the country we spoke, longing for the pride of the past, for the feeling that we as Dutch belonged together, that there were values that bound us together, united us, that we strengthened each other. It is not so long ago that citizens in the Netherlands were able to rely on good public services. Today too much is left to the market. Market thinking has nestled in the heart of our society. It is thought in terms of profit and capital rather than people and their happiness and well-being. 50PLUS believes that we should leave less to the market. You can also question whether we have become happier with market forces in healthcare, public transport and, for example, the postal market. We see a further increase in the number of visitors aged 50 and over to the food banks. In 2017, food banks provided emergency aid to over 132.000 people. The percentage of Dutch people with payment difficulties is increasing enormously, and there is still no good debt settlement for people who have got into trouble. Last week, the National Ombudsman called the alarm clock on this issue. Too many people are on a waiting list for a suitable home for too long. By 2030, 1 million new homes will have to be delivered. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it's okay if care gets close to people. And that municipalities are directing this, is understandable, but the differences per municipality are too large, as far as 50PLUS is concerned. We said that before the decentralisations became a reality. We therefore want a framework in which the municipalities make choices. Now it may be that you get a stair lift assigned in Breda, while you fish behind the net in Breezand. And a loan to make your home more sustainable might get you in Haren, North Brabant, but not in Haren, Groningen. Our cultural heritage is being squandered at a rapid pace, war heroes are being denounced, the Sinterklaas party has been demoted into an integration debate and you have to be careful in some places if you want to put another Christmas tree with lights in your front yard, I read recently in the General Daily. Our army has been so cut back, it's gonna be pitiful. Police officers, caregivers, teachers as well as postmen are undervalued. Even the proposal of 50PLUS to reward brave officers with a medal was fired by this cabinet. Perpetrators get more attention than victims. People who are at risk of falling between shore and ship because they become disabled, unable to come along or simply unlucky feel molested and cornered. And I can go on like this for a while. It can be summed up by the fact that many citizens do not feel heard. They think of us as politicians who are only working on our own career. What's the next function? Commissioner of the King? Mayor of a city as big as possible? Something very important, but especially well paid in national or international business? Citizens hate this kind of job hunters. How many Members, Madam President, have left your Chamber for a position other than a representative of the people? The Dutch aren't protesters yet, not yet. But the citizen's patience knows limits. The riot crows. If we do not listen better to the citizens, there will come a time when democracy will be shaken because of our fault. And I told you before: 50PLUS is very concerned about that. There are also concerns about the increasing individualisation of society. Sometimes this is due to global developments, sometimes it is encouraged by the government and certain political parties. 50PLUS continues to believe in good, collective solutions. 50PLUS is therefore also mordicus against personal, individual pension pots. We want to maintain the existing pension system as much as possible, mandatory and collective, and we call for collective schemes forzzp'ers. I come to the target group for which 50PLUS was primarily established. Last Thursday's Telegraph headlined it on the front page "Ouddere hands in." And what does De Telegraaf write from the mouth of none other than Peter Hein van Mulligen, chief economist of the Central Bureau of Statistics? I'm quoting literally. "The only group that has been really skipped in the purchasing power wave for years are pensioners. After the economic crisis of 2008, the purchasing power of older people fell sharply until 2013. Despite the economic recovery after that, their purchasing power barely increased. Pensioners cannot change their income situation by working more or making promotion. The purchase price of older people is therefore highly dependent on the indexation of AOW and pension and on fiscal measures. And that pension has often not been indexed for some time. As a group, pensioners have more and more purchasing power," Prime Minister Rutte continued to defend them in recent years "because people who stopped working in 2017 have a higher pension than older people who died that year, and if women have more often built up their own pot. As a group they do have some, but that is of course of no use to you as an individual." Thus still Peter Hein van Mulligen in the Telegraph. 50PLUS has been calling it for years and has been hoarded, ridiculed and flogged by opponents. But now there is finally the confirmation of the chief economist of the CBS. That is why the cabinet is now taking a very small step forward. I'd like to say too little, too late. It is not strange or striking, Madam President, that as many as three quarters of the population think they will not improve. They feel the facts very well. They are right to feel that the predictions of this cabinet are always not being fulfilled. For example, this cabinet initially predicted a plus with the macro-economic recognition in hand for 2017. It was gonna be a miserable thing. This cabinet predicted another plus for 2018. And yes, Madam President, this year too, it will be an even greater minus. The plus that was predicted yesterday for 2019 is therefore viewed by the people at home shoulder-picking and with argus eyes. If the Princess Day predictions of this cabinet were true for 2017, 2018 and now again 2019, older people would have a plus of 3% by the end of the coming year. Madam President, far from it. Even if the forecast of 1.5% for 2019 were to come true, that is at most to keep the promise for 2017 and 2018. I told you, too little, too late. The AOW increased from 2017 to 2018 with less than three tens. All the cost increases will have to be paid, such as rent, municipal taxes, the care premium, the own risk, energy costs, energy taxes, public transport, the newspaper and even the stamp. Madam President, the VAT increase is not only bad for people with a small scholarship, but also has a huge impact on the millions of Dutch people in the border region. What are the border effects that will occur as a result of this VAT increase? Take a look at the supermarkets just across the border on Saturday. There are often more cars with a Dutch license plate than with the registration number of their own country. After the VAT increase, that will certainly not be any less. 50PLUS wants a detailed overview of the expected border effects for citizens and the economy. Earlier today, I had an interrupting debate with CDA colleague Buma. Like 50PLUS, he also believes that more age-resistant buildings should be built and more homes should be built for senior citizens. It's a good thing I'm even finding a government party by my side right now. An additional reason to ask for a comprehensive response from the cabinet. Madam President, 50PLUS is not just a word. This year we come up with a counter-budget. I will hand it over to you through the messenger, Madam President, including a CPB transfer. At the Financial Reviews, my colleague Martin van Rooijen will discuss this further. It is a budget with different choices and other priorities, so that people at home know that it can really be different and that there is a choice. If this cabinet doesn't want to do it, the people at home can choose for themselves. In March, in May next year and perhaps even earlier. 50PLUS has incorporated eight priorities into a counter-budget for 2019. First, we freeze the AOW age in 2019 at 66 years and then reduce it to 65 years in 2020. Secondly, we increase the AOW, the minimum wage and also the welfare allowance by 3%. We reduce our own risk in the Health Insurance Act by €100. We increase the elderly discount by €200 extra. We reduce the landlord's tax, so that additional funds will be made available for the new construction of, for example, senior homes and for the necessary sustainability. Sixthly, we're investing 500 million extra in the IRS. He really needs to get his act together faster. Seventhly, we abolish the tax on tap water, an additional compensation for the VAT increase of the cabinet. And eighth, of course, the penalty goes off the table. We fought hard for that, with Martin van Rooijen first, and we continue to fight for that. That fine, these people have to pay if they've partially repaid their housing debt, must go to the trash bank. We maintain the planned reduction in income tax, but 50PLUS clearly focuses on a well-earned catch-up for older people. And we pay this, among other things, by not abolishing the dividend tax. A separate legislative proposal is necessary for this, but the cabinet has not listened. The reduction in corporate tax is reversed and we freeze the labor discount. In addition, following the CBS's statement that older people have been lagging behind for ten years, we count on support from MPs who still have some social feelings for our initiative proposal to temporarily increase the calculation rate. And finally. Let no one forget that it is the older people who, without this being seen in the figures, make an economic contribution to society. They look after grandchildren so parents can work. They do volunteer work in hospitals, old people's homes, institution kitchens, libraries and sports clubs. They're carers, and they all do it for free, for nothing, while we're all on board. To sum up, Madam President. 50PLUS is clear. We make clear choices. At the end of this month, our country will have eighteen consecutive quarters of growth. That's exceptional, even if you look at the past. Only once was this higher. We believe that there is a far too small group that benefits from this, and that is why we choose the over-earned and much-needed catch-up for the elderly. And we look forward to the next bus trips of 50PLUS into the country. The elections are coming, perhaps sooner than many people think. We're looking forward to it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u421	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u422	Madam President. Do you know who it was for yesterday a beautiful Prince's Day? Well, at least for the school kids who were on the route the coach passed. We have also passed by with guests from the group and you see, regardless of the contents of the speech of the throne, a great enthusiasm among all those schoolchildren for the festivities of the day. I was grabbed by someone with a very special idea for the future. A girl grabbed me and said, "That little boy over there from my class, she wants to be you later." Well, that was very honorable. Mr Dijkhoff also mentioned the ideas of children about what they would like to become later, but in that context I have a quiz question. Do you know that there was someone in the room with a very special ideal? He said, "It seemed to me as a child to be Solomon," and its justification was as follows. "I saw it all in front of me: making wise and just decisions all day long and then by nightfall only people who are grateful and happy to go home."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u423	Mr. Pechtold, you know the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u424	Well, Chairman, I've been digging into the Bible more and more lately. But that girl had to point out that little boy's ambition... Didn't you tell that girl it could be her, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u425	I'm not used to being so paternalistic about prescribing girls what they want. I think they can do that very well themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u426	But it was funny how things went and I can also tell you that it was not Mr Pechtold, as far as I know, who used to want to be Solomon. But then who did? Solomon, the wise king of Israel? I can still see a lot of asking looks. I have actually learned that I have to leave the answer until the end of my story, but I want to break the tension already: it was Prime Minister Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u427	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u428	He told us that during the so-called sermon of the layman in the Duinzichtkerk in The Hague. At least I'm assuming that's true, that's true. I'm getting that confirmed now. "Make wise and just decisions all day long, and by nightfall only people who are grateful and happy to go home." Well, that is indeed a wonderful ideal. He's already very close, I hear him say in box-K. We know the Prime Minister as an optimist, but I think it will still be quite a lot to get everyone to go home grateful and happy. He said that he had that feeling in response to the stories of Solomon which he was read from the children's Bible by a grandfather. I don't know exactly which stories of Solomon, the wise king of Israel, have made such an impression on young Mark, but I'm sure they included the familiar story of the two women who came to Solomon because they were arguing about a child. They both had a child. One of those children died at night and both claimed to be the mother of the living child. How did Solomon get out of here? What is wisdom? Then Solomon fetch a sword, and pretends to cut the child in half, and each shall have half. One woman is okay with that. Well, I guess it has to be. The other woman hates it and says, "No, don't do that; give the child to her." Then Solomon said, "Now I know who the real mother is," and the rightful mother will have the baby in his arms. A wonderful piece of extraordinary wisdom and that is called "a salomon judgment." Madam President. Even now, there are plenty of them: the difficult dilemmas, complex headache files, difficult issues that you say require a salomon judgment. Let me start with the proposed tax on dividends, at the moment with the best known care child of Rutte III. Is there really no creative other way to strengthen the Dutch locational environment than with this very far-reaching measure? Perhaps that ingenuity à la Solomon can still help in this. The cabinet insists that you should not look at these plans separately, but in conjunction. But if you look at that overall picture, we wonder if a wise balance has been found. Indeed, take a look at the overall picture, also for families and for the entrepreneur on the corner. At any rate, what is not balanced is the tax burden for a earner. There is really a world to win for a family-friendly tax policy, by no longer taxing those self-employed families to the highest level. What can we expect from the cabinet in that? In the context of good family policy, we also advocate the restoration of family allowances for 17-year-olds living at home and in higher education. A lot has changed about the funding of studies, and it is wrong, we believe, that there is now no child benefit for that group. Economically, the Netherlands is doing better, but are the truck driver, the cop, the soldier, the nurse, the older one with the little pension really going to notice that? That's what I like to hear from the Cabinet. Of course, today it has also been a great deal about all kinds of environmental measures and climate measures, and that is necessary. But we also insist that it be feasible, reliable but also affordable for ordinary families and for smaller businesses. Not everyone can just touch the heat pump. Mr. Chairman. It would be good to offer more air to smaller entrepreneurs, to family businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises are praised on paper as the backbone of our economy, but in practice it sometimes remains the underprivileged child. The SGP calls for further reductions in labour taxation. I would also like to mention a very specific point: entrepreneurs are faced with a higher tax claim on past profits that they have left behind in their business. What will the Cabinet do to prevent them from becoming the child of the account? What entrepreneurs and others want is less rules and more space. Farmers are already dying for that. It is good that there has been a good vision of the future of agriculture, but do entrepreneurs really have the room to make the battle? In the context of the outstretched hand, I would like to mention a very specific point on the part of the SGP Group: it would help all those farmers who suffer from all kinds of different weather conditions, drought or water pollution, but who find weather insurance very expensive, to obtain exemption from the insurance tax, as is the case in France. Could that also be possible in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. The SGP calls again for attention for shopkeepers who do not want to be open on Sundays. Earlier this week I heard another poignant story. In a new shopping mall, the rental contract of an entrepreneur seemed to be in the clear, until the last moment the rent ricocheted off at the mandatory Sunday opening. What is the Cabinet going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u429	The broad weather insurance that Mr Van der Staaij mentioned is a point that our group always lives on. Can he further indicate how he would like to deal with this? You call the insurance tax. Perhaps you could give us an exact idea of what the idea is about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u430	I mentioned that this is also being applied in other countries, for example in France. It is therefore clear that it is possible, at European level, to exempt from the insurance tax so that it becomes more attractive, easier and affordable to take out such insurance. Salomon's judgment asked: how can you make a good decision in difficult issues? I was also thinking of asylum policy in this context. Can children like Lili and Howick stay in the Netherlands? It has already emerged in various contributions today. Of course, you can give such children their future in the Netherlands, but what is really bothering the SGP is that so little has come of all the promises to counter the accumulation of procedures. To quote only one spell from Solomon: "The delayed hope hurts the heart." If Solomon had only made a decision about that child after ten years, no one would have found him wise. So it is also about speed in important decisions. Why isn't there a definite green or red light much earlier? How does the cabinet prevent training from paying if after repeated noes it suddenly becomes a yes? I would also say: please do not bring up yet another committee, but take that up, for example very concretely by not giving the opportunity to wait for the whole appeal procedure in the Netherlands again in repeated proceedings. In any case, do not let it wait in the Netherlands again, as far as it is not possible to limit it. Mr. Chairman. Those who browse in the old Acts often encounter the salomon judgment in the Chamber debates. I've been watching. The MP Gerbrandy, indeed the former Prime Minister, became a Member of Parliament after that; that could also be a future perspective, Solomon quoted in the fifties, when the government suggested that the police should be housed both in the Interior and in the Justice Department. Gerbrandy said that that doesn't work. With this solution, the cabinet says that the child is both, and that's not going to work, of course. I would almost say that was prophetic, because that decision has now been reversed. But it is still a concern whether we can actually invest enough in security, not only in police services but also in our armed forces. By Solomon's horses and chariots, our cavalry only sheds pales. Good thing extra money is going to the armed forces now, but what does the picture look like in the longer term? I had an interrupting debate on it with Mr Buma for a while. He'd already passed on the question. Mr. Chairman. The salomon judgment has already been cited in an example of a bad compromise. Indeed, if that is missing, then you have a bad compromise, and also now. I was thinking: what exactly is the most unhealthy compromise in this cabinet? There are quite some compromises that you say: I get it, one gets something right and the other gets right. But if I had to mention one thing that is really the most unhealthy compromise in this cabinet, I would say: that is the drug deal, or the experiment with state weed. Unfortunately, the Netherlands has an extremely bad name when it comes to drugs. We're at the top of the wrong lists. Crime is huge. We would say: go and pay attention to combating it instead of putting a lot of energy into such a state weed experiment. It's the reverse world. The impression is given that drugs are not so bad yet, while the health damage and misery are enormous. We call for these state-owned weed experiments to be stopped, but to be fully committed to the fight against all the miserable drug users. Mr. Chairman. Doing justice requires wiggling and weighing. In Solomon's spells there is a call not to deviate to the right or to the left, and to turn the foot away from the evil path. By responding to this, the policy can gain wisdom. We call for greater protection for vulnerable lives. Why has it become so self-evident to guide women who are unwittingly pregnant towards abortion clinic, when there is so little help and support in carrying out the pregnancy? Isn't it shocking that the advertising of suicide powder in the Netherlands has already made a young victim? It is time to tighten up the penal code in order to combat this more effectively. We would also like to call on the cabinet to counter the evil demonisation of Israel, as in the UN Human Rights Council. King Solomon's name is and remains forever connected with the Jewish people, Israel and Jerusalem. And then there's something else. It would be wise to pursue a more restrained admission policy and to have more regard for the dark sides of Islam. Recent research on growing salafism shows that this concern is right and serious. What can we expect from the cabinet here? Madam President. How did Prime Minister Rutte ever get to Solomon? It is nice that he also says about this in the sermon: "I myself think that my youthful preference for Solomon's story was inspired by the message my grandfather had written on the cover of that children's Bible. And that was in fact the mission of a deeply-believing man to his grandchildren." The cover said, "The fear of the Lord is the principle of wisdom." Indeed, that is Solomon's wisdom: not just some cleverness, but stamped by the realization that true wisdom is a gift of God. The fear of the Lord which Prime Minister Rutte's sage referred to is a respectful and loving fear of God and an eye for His good commandments. The SGP is celebrating its centenary this year. Many times in those hundred years Solomon's wisdom has been cited: fear God, keep His commandments, that is for all men. That's our call now, too. Solomon's stories are beautiful and his wisdom is impressive and inspiring. But do you know what really impressed me as a young child, which, frankly, scared me a little? That that wise king in his later life sometimes went quite wrong. It's women's stuff and stuff. Fortunately, history doesn't end with Solomon. Centuries later, a man lived who could say, "More than Solomon is here." His name is Jesus Christ. And the beauty is that in Him all the treasures of wisdom really come together. He who hears and does his words is wise. Madam President, that was and is at the heart of the message of the SGP. Ministers and Secretary of State and fellow Members of Parliament wish and pray to you all God's wisdom in the many work that awaits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u431	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u432	Madam President. Take a look at this picture. Do you remember this picture? This photo was taken on Friday 7 September at a concert by Anouk at the Scheveningen beach, 12 days ago. On the picture we see the rulers Bruins and Visser, Deputy Prime Minister and CDA Crown Prince Hugo de Jonge and of course the inevitably grinning Prime Minister Rutte. Four party animals who celebrated their own party after a normal working day. Everything is fine with us and life is beautiful, they radiate. Worried to listen to music and drink prosecco on the beach. No one can touch us, they must have thought, and that's what they're radiating. 'Cause we rule this country. But while Bruno, Hugo, Barbara and Mark were carefree singing and drinking, at the same time the Dutch children Lili and Howick were waiting in great tension. There would soon be a decisive ruling for them from the Amsterdam court. Before the children threatened the abyss at that time. They threatened to be deported. They threatened to leave their boyfriends, their school and their country. Half of the Netherlands rightly fell over this right-wing rotten cabinet because of the ice cold insensitivity they expressed. This picture is exemplary. It's like we're living in one country, but at the same time in two completely different worlds. Partying ministers and insecure children. Every time I think the gap can't get any bigger, Rutte and his associates get it together to further widen the gap. See Klaas Dijkhoff today with his plan to introduce postcode racism. Mr. Chairman. It's about the gap in this country. The gap between, for example, the self-image of this cabinet with breast-knocking and a good news show versus the image of society where 400,000 children live below the poverty line and more than 1 million people struggle to make ends meet at the end of the month. The gap between a cabinet that has an iron asylum policy and the people in the country who ask for mercy for two Dutch children. The gap between the everyday reality of multicultural society in which diversity is an enrichment and the Stef Bloktheories of a government that sees diversity as a danger. A gap between people with a migration background and people without a migration background. A gap between multicultural Netherlands and xenophobic Netherlands. A gap between Tesla riders who drink prosecco in Italy and people who can't even go on vacation and have no car at all. A gap between canal belt socialists and real workers, who have nothing in common anymore. A gap between people who can afford a heat pump of €20,000 and people who cannot charge the ever higher energy bill. Mr President, a gap between rich and poor. According to a new publication two weeks ago, the Netherlands has a huge inequality in wealth. It was mentioned earlier in the debate today, by Mrs Marijnissen, I think. The 10% richest Dutch have 68% of their wealth. Only in the United States is power inequality greater. This cabinet is doing everything it can to widen that gap further. On average, high-income people are making significant progress, while low-income people are making a poor, poor, low-income couple of tens and, in some cases, Nibud has shown that they are even declining. The ordinary Dutchmen, the Henks, the Fatimas, the Ingrids and the Ahmeds, do not notice anything about the recovery of our economy. They have to pay more for their groceries through the anti-social VAT increase of this cabinet on everyday products such as bread, cheese, eggs and vegetables. If they become ill, they have to pay for the €124 health premium and the terrible risk of €385. They must pay €150 more for their energy. They have to pay more for their home because of the demolition of the rent allowance. They must pay more for their studies because of the antisocial debt system and the increase in interest rates on student loans. And I can go on like this for a while. The ordinary, normal Dutchman, to whom the recovery of our economy is due and for whom this cabinet claims to stand, gets dirty stench after years of austerity and pain. They get a knife in the back from Rutte, from Pechtold a stair in the stomach, from Buma a slap in the face and from Segers a judaskus. Why are ordinary, normal Dutch people so aggressively abused by this cabinet? Why this senseless violence towards hardworking Dutch people? And who are those ordinary, normal Dutch people? Who are those hard-working Dutch people the established political order is talking about? I would recommend that everyone take a look at the wholesale market in Rotterdam at 5 a.m. And take a look at a meat processing company later in the day. Take a look at the port of Rotterdam or at the staff responsible for the security of Schiphol. There you see hardworking Dutch people who look very different in diversity than the hardworking Dutch, the ordinary, normal Dutch that this cabinet means. By the "normal, normal Dutch" this cabinet means the foreign shareholders of the multinationals and the bosses of large companies. By the "hardworking Dutch" this cabinet means the gentlemen in chalk stripe suits who are the boss of the health insurance companies and earn hugely high salaries. By the "hardworking Dutch" this cabinet means the real estate magnates, who are currently filling their pockets. It is then unforgivable, really unforgivable that this cabinet chooses to distribute to the super rich, the slurp multinationals and big business. While Henk, Ahmed, Ingrid and Fatima face pain, degradation and burdens, the profit tax on slurp multinationals and large companies is reduced by hundreds of millions. While Henk, Ahmed, Ingrid and Fatima have to bleed hard, companies like Unilever, Shell, Philips and AkzoNobel get a fantastic gift of billions of euros with the abolition of dividend taxes. Mr President, the dividend tax: the "d-word" is already mentioned. It's kind of like the nobility worked in old times. They were exempted from work while the serfs and the horns had to work themselves to pieces. As the nobility used to be dormant, foreign investors are now becoming dormantly rich. It is mainly British investors who receive a gift from the Netherlands of 2.1 billion euros per year. This is supposed to be done to keep Shell and Unilever in with their head office, while Unilever itself indicates that the dividend tax does not play any role in choosing the location of the head office. I haven't heard a bigger excuse than the climate of establishment, even in earlier versions of this Rutte cabinet. Mr President, the bottom line is that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. What the normal Dutchman has coughed up since the crisis is now being given away to large companies and foreign shareholders. In times of crisis the money was first defrauded by people who work hard, and in times of growth the money flows richly to those multinationals. That's theft policy. That's asopolicy. That's a demolition policy. So the big money and the super rich are the boss in this country. The large multinationals have direct access to the cabinet. The Bilderberg meetings of the shadowy financial elite are being trampled by our government. And former executives can, of course, count on a gray feature in big business after providing services to the established economic order. I call a Gerrit Salmon. It went to ABN. I call a Jan Kees the Hunter. It went to KPN. I call a Wim Cook. He went to ING. I call a Camiel Eurlings. It went to KLM-Air France. And then the question is justified: where is Mark Rutte going later? Mr President, it is in any case painfully clear that the members of this cabinet are the puppets of the Malie Tower, the gang members of the banking sector, the runaway of the multinationals. The long arm of the Malie Tower extends to the Trêveszaal. And that long arm holds the pen when drawing up the Millions note. Hans de Boer does not need a seat at the table at the Council of Ministers. His mind is fully present. Incarcerated in one's own equal, the cabinet is rarely open to arguments from people outside their own circle. The outstretched hand that Mark Rutte says is sticking out of the door that is ajar, is often a raised middle finger. This finger is mainly about keeping the door to influence on government policy tight. The real fine words of the cabinet, but they have become totally unbelievable after a year. That also proves the most recent poll. It shows that the majority of the population and the majority of the coalition parties no longer have confidence in this cabinet. The cabinet has been ruled out after a year and that is a great achievement. Mr. Chairman. Why do we allow Rutte to continue to rule? Why aren't we able to bring about change? Why can't we take back our country from all those politicians who are only there for the sake of big business in the hope of taking advantage of it one day? Why can't Henk, Ahmed, Ingrid and Fatima join forces to stop serving the interests of big business and break down the demolition policy? This is because the established political order has imposed a way of thinking on society that aims to counter any kind of change. The established political order does everything it can to strengthen its own dominant position. The established political order uses distractions to distract us from the real challenge we face. How do you do that? Actually, it's very simple. You let all those people who are actually in the same situation and therefore have the same challenges in life, whether they're called Henk or Ahmed or Ingrid or Fatima, think they're the greatest possible enemies of each other. You design fakes and turn people against each other. People are not allowed to work together. They have to live together so that the critical mass of resistance to the established political order cannot develop. Instead of dealing with the real problems, people must think that they are each other's problems. That is an ancient machiavellian wisdom that Rutte unfortunately controls too well; divide and rule politics, because a divided people is easier to rule. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that since the beginning of 2000 the established political order has been grooving into ethnic politics and stuck integration thinking. It serves an interest. They create a problem that they can then exploit electoralally themselves. Logical that in response a movement of people with different backgrounds arises that no longer take it and unite to claim their position in the country where they were born and raised. They have the nerve to say to those who say to them that they should leave, 'Get out of here!' That's DENK. Perhaps not always politically correct, I admit that, but I do express the feeling of a group of people who were not and are not heard. Mr. Chairman. After the disappearance of the barrier and the end of the Cold War, two major distribution and control mechanisms had fallen away from the established political order. Communists were no longer the common enemy and society was no longer precisely divided between Protestants, Catholics, Socialists and Liberals, in which only the elites were in contact. It is therefore no wonder that thirsty was sought out for a new common enemy. It is therefore no coincidence that the debate on integration has received a strong and electoral support during the very same period of time. Then a debate was held in this house about problems with Surinamese. A debate was held on the Moroccan problem, on problems with Turks, on Sharia neighbourhoods, on Sharia courts, on the so-called threat of all Salafists, on long arms, on hate images, on genetic incompetence, and on so much more. Active, but also active, is a picture of a society that would be on fire, and that is all the fault of a group of people. Sinbokpolitics! Does anyone really wonder why this is being stirred up and who has an interest in it? Mr. Chairman. The King spoke yesterday in the Throne speech about the four Dutch achievements and he mentioned equivalence as the first. Yes, that is Article 1 of the Constitution, the most important and most beautiful article. "All those located in the Netherlands shall be treated equally." And yet more and more I get the feeling that this is a matter of sham equivalency. It is no longer a feeling, because the evidence of unequal treatment is piling up. I mention the inequality in obtaining an internship, in job applications, in promotions, in educational advice, in the government itself and even in the staff here in the Chamber. Apart from security and cleaning, there is no equivalent reflection here. I refer to the inequality in the police and the military, in the recording of declarations or in the arrests, in the constantly being called in a negative way in your background or in political developments in your country of origin. One of them supposedly has to distance himself from everything, and the other is never asked to distance himself from anything. That's a tough double size. Is equivalence really equal in the Netherlands? I'll give it to him, at least Wilders is honest about that. But many colleagues in this Chamber are deliberately or unconsciously hypocritical of that. Mr. Chairman. You're supposed to be yourself in the Netherlands. Everyone says you have to be yourself. I wonder, is that really the case? Can you really be yourself in Holland? Does the freedom of expression apply to every Dutchman to the same extent? Does the freedom of religion apply equally to Jews and Muslims? I often hear that you can't go through certain Amsterdam neighborhoods with a yarmulke. I'm sorry. I do not think that is possible; let me be clear about that. But I haven't heard from anyone so far if you can make love to a djellaba on the street. For certain Islamic costumes there is even a law that regulates that nikab is in some cases prohibited. A certain degree of submissiveness is required of Dutch people with a migration background. You may be yourself, but if you step outside the box, you're gonna get bludgeoned back in your loft. You may be yourself, but not right now. You may belong to it, but only if you meet our way of life is a way of life dictated by the VVD. You may be yourself, but you must first jump through the hoops of the politically established order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u433	I'm not advised to do this, but I want to be myself, too. I also hear Mr Kuzu being himself all the time. I'm listening to it a little bit. I understand it's a bit over the top and polarizing, but I'm still trying to see if we can get somewhere. I think you can be yourself in the Netherlands, but it is also true that we have leading, free values here that you have to embrace. If you're tolerant of others, you're tolerant of yourself. I think there are a lot of people who can be completely themselves in this country, whatever religion they adhere to. The fact that sometimes there is a fool who discriminates against it, for example when hiring people, is something we have to fight together. But we do need a shared basic link, don't we? There are currents that really say: well, it's nice that they have that democracy and that freedom; we use it, but we don't want them. Then it's about the most extreme currents, for example salafism. Of this, Mr Kuzu will say: that does not fit here, for they deny the freedom of another to do so? Surely there's a bottom you can't sink through? You can't say: I'm so good myself; I'm going to argue against democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u434	Two things about this. First of all, I find it strange that Mr Dijkhoff accuses me of polarization here, while this morning he polarized in the newspaper with his postcode racism. Then you also see where it goes wrong in this room. Mr Dijkhoff speaks of all the Salafists as one group and puts them all on the same footing. In the previous period, Minister Asscher wrote a very clear letter to the Chamber in which he distinguished between three different groups within the Salafist movement. I say yes, for people who want to use force to ruin other people's lives, we must have an approach. We have to do that with all the means we have. But a large part of the salafists do so in their own way of life. I will defend that until the last moment, even though we are the only ones here in the Chamber to do so. They do it in their own experience, and they don't hurt a fly. I'd say in particular, Mr. Dijkhoff, leave those people alone. Let these people be themselves, just like you can be yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u435	That's enlightening. Then we agree on one category, but not on the other. I do not agree with Mr Kuzu on this point. If you don't use violence, but you do find democracy and the freedom of others ridiculous, the religion that others adhere to doesn't really feel right, thinks that your daughter shouldn't work or that you want to decide who she marries, if you want to do so and say "I am myself," then I would say: then you can't indeed be yourself in the Netherlands. Then it is time for you to become a better man and embrace equality and freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u436	Then I would like to ask Mr Dijkhoff: is one of the values we share, for example, that we are against the death penalty? Are we against the death penalty? Are we in favour of equality between men and women? Are we in favour of equality between gay and straight? I say yes, but do you think everyone in the Netherlands should say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u437	For the equality of men and women, surely. You can have a different opinion on that privately...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u438	So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u439	... but if you, in your own environment, in your own family, are oppressive and impressed that your daughter is worth less than your son, I have a problem with that in our free Netherlands. Then you don't have to use violence, but with me, the bar for shared values is a little higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u440	As the father of a daughter and a son, I try to treat them equally. That's one. The second is that the answer to the question I just asked Mr Dijkhoff is, therefore, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u441	Yeah, but it's supposed to happen the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u442	Yes, exactly, but the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u443	Mr Dijkhoff has already been here. You're supposed to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u444	The answer to my question to Mr Dijkhoff was therefore yes. Then I would like to say, Mr. Dijkhoff, why are you only passing on to people with a migration background and those neighborhoods where it wouldn't be good? Today, for example, Urk was also mentioned. Do you think it's all right there with the equality of men and women? Do you think that there are sons and daughters treated in the same way? Why do you place the problems of so-called failed integration only on a particular group of people and why do you not see the other group of people wherever that goes wrong in this country at all? That's exactly what I mean by the double size that bothers a lot of people with the VVD's policy on this theme, Mr. Dijkhoff. Take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u445	Finally, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u446	Yeah, finally. I find it creative but regrettable that Mr Kuzu can turn an approach aimed at taking an extra step to help people who suffer most from lack of freedom and insecurity into something negative and stigmatizing. I find that regrettable. All errors and violations in the Netherlands are addressed. There's no difference, but neighborhoods where it's worst, you'll also have to help the worst and most. I expected Mr Kuzu to be on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u447	I just think this is ridiculous. Here are just put words in my mouth that I have absolutely not used, as if those people are waiting for the help of Dijkhoff and his associates. That's one. The second is that I am definitely in favour of dealing with backlogs. That's what you do by investing in the neighborhoods that matter. That's what you do by investing in education. That's what you do by investing in fighting poverty. These are all areas where the VVD doesn't give at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u448	Mr Kuzu quoted Urk. I would almost say that the day will be over in no time, but that is a really wrong example when it comes to the relationship between men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u449	Then let's call it Staphorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u450	It is striking that in Urk there were just men who intended to vote for Geert Wilders, but that the women said: that does not happen; it just becomes the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u451	That was a point of order from Mr Van der Staaij, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u452	I thank Mr Van der Staaij for this valuable addition. Then I'd rather have the SGP than the PVV. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the established political order. For the established political order, once and for all it must be clear that these divide-and-control games no longer work. We are now dealing with a generation that is very well aware of what is happening in the Netherlands and in Western Europe. We are dealing with a generation of boys and girls who are mature and certainly no longer submissive. They have their own will and do not ask for tolerance or tolerance, but for acceptance and respect. They claim their position in this society. Mr. Chairman. DENK is concerned about the climate. The Netherlands needs climate change, not only from the meteorological climate, but also from the political and social climate. I'm worried about all those boys and girls who become alienated from the country where they were born and raised, the Netherlands. I'm worried about all those talents that we're gonna let go because a politician or a minister thinks it's necessary to score at xenophobic right. I am concerned that social displeasure on both sides at some point turns into something no one can see the consequences of. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands there is a silent civil war, a civil war on social media and on the Internet. People fly into each other's hair there like never before. It is a battlefield on the internet, where the Dutch face the Dutch. One's on one another's feet. Threats and insults follow each other at a rapid pace. It's like a peat fire that could turn into a real fire. And I'm really worried about that. Mr. Chairman. Then we have a cabinet with four celebrating directors at the moment when Dutch children are in danger of being evicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u453	One comment. When Mr Kuzu talks about the forms of communication on the Internet, he has to start with himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u454	It's been noted. Then we have a cabinet, in which also the Crown Prince, the successor of Mr Buma, stands: four festive rulers at the moment when Dutch children are in danger of being evicted. Then here's what we're wondering. Do we have confidence in building the foundations of future generations in a cabinet that, after a year of government, no longer has the trust of the people? Do we have confidence in increasing the solidarity in a cabinet whose members are being dragged out of hand to refugees, Muslims and people with a migration background? Do we have confidence in closing the gap between rich and poor in a cabinet that is mainly rich multinationals and that is suffocating the normal Dutchman? I don't have much faith in it. The people in the Netherlands have no confidence in it. And as far as I'm concerned, the members of the Cabinet are allowed to party for as long as they can on this photo, but let that be a farewell party. Mr. Chairman. I just told you. This cabinet has been ruled out. It is time for a new election, in which the ideal of DENK can come to its own, namely that 17 million people in all their diversity and diversity find community sense in their citizenship of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u455	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u456	Beautiful things, the real beautiful things: / your hand that for the first time strokes a cat coat, / your mother who worries connects your knee, / six maggot horses in the sun, / the thunderstorm that August started with, / Diana's hand that slipped off to your pants, / her body where you blindly found the way in / a word like furniture, mulberry, ravelin, / the find of a just not shaky rhyme: / beautiful things, all beautiful things, / like the trains on which I kissed, / the soft waves of a drinking room, / a girl's room that smells to nobility, / the wonder that a day never repeats itself, / o, beautiful things and my mouth designate it / before I have reconciled with the ritual shine debates here. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, the cabinet has not produced much in poetic language, but much in fairy tales and parables. Mark Rutte had the King read fairy tales in the Throne speech yesterday in the Knight's Room. You never had it so good, is the tone of Rutte's fairy tales. Foreign headquarters are flying like mushrooms after the abolition of dividend tax and thousands of high-quality jobs are magical in the fairytale book of Mark Rutte and Hugo de Jonge. Minister of Finance Wobke Hoekstra handed us yesterday the Million Note in the blue booklet after having extensively maintained the Chamber first about the exciting experience of South Pole Adventurer Roald Amundsen in 1910. Let me start with a parable today, too. Once upon a time, there was a farm run by animals. The pigs were the boss. The other animals worked all year as slaves on the farm. At some point it seemed as if the farm had become more prosperous, but without the animals themselves possessing more wealth, the pigs of course excluded. Yet the pigs assured the other animals: you have never had it so well. And as the pig was never tired of declaring roaring, the supervision and organization of the farm required endless amounts of work. For example, Brulbeer told the animals that the leaders spend a huge amount of work on mysterious things every day, such as files, reports, motions, reflections and investigations. Those were large sheets of paper that had to be described from bottom to top and as soon as they were described, they went into the stove. That was of the utmost importance for the farm, says Brulbeer. The pigs didn't produce food themselves, but their appetite was never affected. The pigs went to more and more trouble to look like humans and to rise above the other animals. They were going to wear human clothes and at some point even walk on two legs instead of on four. Madam President. These words come from the world-famous book Animal Farm by George Orwell, published in 1945, the year with which the King began his throne speech yesterday. Orwell had prophetic powers. It seems as if he describes the Netherlands under the reign of Mark Rutte's VVD. Better than ever, the Prime Minister calls incessantly. Only a lot of animals and a lot of people in this country notice very little of it. Orwell's story continues. Every time the animals on the farm realize that weird things are happening and want to protest against the pigs, the sheep are taking action. With endless blah, they keep the animals in line. If the animals, or the population, want to protest against the fact that the pigs start walking on two legs, the sheep burst into thunderous bleating. Four legs good, two legs better. By the time the sheep settle down, the protest has already ceased. In the sheep of Orwell you will recognize the biased left-wing media that constantly defend the partyoligarchie and create a suffocating politically correct climate. That's another climate problem. An open debate on the issues that really matter must not be conducted, but must be constantly overwhelmed by side issues, often carried with a large dose of emo. Indeed, the political situation in the Netherlands is becoming more and more similar to George Orwell's Animal Farm. Many politicians pretend to stand up for the voters, but they are mainly concerned with their own interests and their own careers. Members of parliament see membership as a stepping stone for a nice next job. The party framework of the traditional parties is on the hunt for an administrative position, regardless of talent or suitability. And Mark Rutte is mainly working on his next position and will be in the EU, as even Alexander Pechtold is beginning to see his interruption today. And that is what the outdated political system we have in this country is excellent for. I know, because almost everyone in this room has whispered to me behind the scenes just as ridiculous, just as horrible and as ridiculous a waste of time as I am to capture these moral flies in the hope of getting the eight-hour report, why and with what effect? The coalition won't listen. Arguments are pointless in this house. It is all for the stage, it is all a sham, as the debate on the pointless abolition of dividend taxes shows. So the question that arises, colleagues, is: who is the boss in this country? Who can influence or decide anything? Is it still Mark Rutte? Is it the King? Is it Juncker? Is it Soros? Is it Angela Merckel? Is it Paul Polman from Unilever? Those who are not in charge in the Netherlands are the voters. It did not ask for a EUR 200 billion of money-consuming energy transition that would cost him a quarter of his income in order to possibly bring about an increase in temperature of 0.00007°C in 80 years' time. That voter did not ask for decades of mass immigration that has seriously undermined social cohesion in the Netherlands and has serious disruptive consequences for our care, our education and our security and is a huge attack on our welfare state. Immigrants who would be needed to pay our AOW are now the largest consumers of tax money who are paid by hard-working Dutch people, often FvD-choosers. How can we continue to require these people to continue to finance these fairy tales, which apparently also affect the VVD? The voter did not ask for the introduction of the hopeless euro or the abolition of the dividend tax. The latter was not even in any election programme. The same applies to the VAT increase we received. It was also not included in any election programme, except in the GroenLinks programme, a party that wants to impose its own lifestyle on the entire Dutch population through tax legislation. The voter had not asked for the EU Constitution, and therefore voted by 62% against that Constitution in a referendum in 2005. Nor did the electorate ask for an EU association agreement with Ukraine and voted 62% against it in 2016. And Ollongren's Orwellian 1984 drag law couldn't count on a majority either. All these referendums ignored the electorate's wishes. In fact, Rutte and Ollongren didn't know how quickly they had to destroy this last piece of voter control. The consultative referendum was abolished in an instant. Only in the GDR was a referendum once abolished when it was recognized that this would threaten the power of the established clan. The Netherlands has become an Orwellian animal farm, in which citizens must pay as much tax as possible to the government and, in particular, keep their mouths shut. That's why a day like today is so sad. Such a sham debate, so much played indignation. All that appearance of representation, that appearance of democracy. There's a tough fight of interests going on. On the one hand you have a small group of people who look away from the real problems from a brew of naivety, group goodness and personal career interests, sticking their heads in the sand and thinking: as long as it takes my time. Mass immigration means that the children who are now in primary school will still see them becoming a minority in their own country. If we look at the figures of the CBS, we can see again the influence of George Orwell, who introduced the concept of "newspeak" or political correctness. Figures are buried statistically because third generation immigrants are no longer registered as such, and the problems associated with them therefore no longer return to the statistics. Terrorists are called "confused persons." It is one big language game with the aim of concealing the real things. Since the elections of 15 March 2017, since the last Lower House elections, more than 140,000 non-Western immigrants came to the Netherlands. That was 260 non-Western immigrants a day. That is a city like Maastricht in a year and a half. Less than 2% of the 2015 status holders now have a full-time job. The problem goes on, the problem gets bigger and bigger and nobody does anything about it, let alone it gets named. This policy is therefore not sustainable at all, to use a fashion word. To change this, FvD wants to introduce the Australian model, where we no longer lie on our backs but decide who comes in here. We've all worked it out. All information can be found on our site. Furthermore, we want to stop this crazy energy transition and invest in innovation and infrastructure rather than in the obsessive reduction of CO. If you are afraid of flooding, you should not raise dikes and not force people who are already struggling to buy a heat pump for €20,000 so that in 80 years perhaps it will be 0.00007 ̊C less hot. Investing in innovation and concrete solutions. That too can be introduced by the Netherlands tomorrow if we seriously think about this in this house. But that's not gonna happen. The coalition does not listen, but dribbles with flour in its mouth. Mr. Chairman. A prime minister in his afternoons prepping for something in Brussels. We have seen it before: Lubbers, Balkenende, each time the national interest is squandered, negotiated, given away at the international gaming table in exchange for the personal career ambitions of that politician who wants to go higher. That is a phenomenon, a symptom of a deeper system crisis. It comes from this non-functioning democracy that we have here. Again and again, existing politics gets away with playing out the Netherlands and giving up the interests of the population, to serve that own career again, because democracy does not work. The only instrument the population had to use to counter this trade-out that is constantly taking place has been abolished. The referendum, once introduced by D66, but now destroyed by that same party. FvD will launch the change on 20 March 2019. It's time something really happened. And it's possible. On 20 March, the Dutch people will have the opportunity to punish the ongoing immigration, the policy of economic predatory construction, the insane energy transition and the obsession with CO reduction, the giving away of power to the EU and the reduction of our referendum. The Forum for Democracy is ready and the countdown has begun as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u457	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-19-tweedekamer-5.u458	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. As I said at the beginning of this debate, the Prime Minister will address the questions of the Chamber at 10.30 a.m. on Friday. I thank everyone, including the people in the public gallery.
