ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66 for his question to the Minister for Legal Protection about the message that the probation would like to refuse clients on a death list. I call Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Just two minutes, Mr. Chairman? I thought it was four. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the board chairman of the parole board gave a nice interview to the Volkskrant. Mr Van Gennip, poked and beaten in the probation work, clearly explained what really works to make a safer society: not only more punishments, but action that helps to prevent recurrence. It was an interview that was taken from my heart. Reclassification and resocialisation are key concepts in preventing relapses, but we must, of course, give the probation the opportunity to do her job well, even if she is dealing with very difficult groups. And the parole groups are often very difficult. Mr Van Gennip therefore expressed concern. More and more often, the probation is faced with convicted persons who are subject to judicial review but who are not really well supervised, because they are too threatening to contact the parole workers, or because they are themselves threatened and, as the chairman said, are sitting in the waiting room with a bulletproof vest. It is understandable that the chairman of the board wants to save his people. At the same time, we have to deal with these groups. After all, we know that about 60% of all prisoners are addicted and that an equally large proportion have mental illness. The target group with which the probation is working is therefore becoming more and more complicated. My questions to the Minister for Legal Protection are therefore the following. Is the probation sufficient to guide this difficult target group in a good way? Is the Minister prepared to examine how the treatment of behavior change can be better adapted to this particular, complex group? What does the Minister actually think of Mr Van Gennip's suggestion that some reporting meetings should take place at the police station? And finally in this first round: what about security at the parole offices? Is it guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me say that parole workers must do their job safely. I fully agree with Mr Grothuizen. This means that intimidation, threat or physical violence cannot be tolerated at all. The probation work is difficult, especially when working with an increasingly complex target group. I also read the interview with the extortioning director of the parole board. Of course, I immediately picked up the phone here too, because this issue of such threatening situations was not previously shared administratively with me, but I take that seriously. More generally, if you look at the nature of the work, the probation has been paying more attention to the safety of its employees in recent times. For example, specific measures have been developed for high-risk clients. Clients are divided into different levels of risk or threat. The methodology and safety measures that are appropriate are then identified at each level. For example, you can think of the police station as a conversational location, the suggestion that Mr Groothuizen has just made. Or you can select more clearly which parole officer you're putting on someone. Or you can choose not to have one but two probation staff interviewed. So within the parole board, these kinds of conversations take place. In addition, and I understand that from the probation, there is also a need for a better exchange of information, for example with the prison system, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, because they sometimes have information that may be relevant for determining the level of threat but not always arrives at the probation itself. I would like to support these measures. If we in the Ministry can do something about that, I'll be there, too. I made that offer yesterday. As a result of this, the probation has indicated: let us first map out exactly the nature and extent of this problem. But at least they know I made that invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister for his first reaction. I understand he's been calling pressure from all sorts of articles in the press lately. It is good to hear that he is at least on top of it and that the probation is taking a number of measures. But I'd like to broaden it a little bit. The Minister spoke, for example, of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but I always see in the press that the Council of Justice, in a more general sense, recognizes the problem that Mr Van Gennip raises. We see a group that is actually too aggressive or too disturbed to be properly supervised. We know that many of these people are in prison too, and that sending people untreated is extremely unwise if we are working on a safe society. My question is therefore: does the Minister not agree with me that, much more generally, we should look more closely at risk profiling? Then I'm not just referring to the risks of parole. Then there is the question: what exactly is going on with people and how can we get the punishment or measure to work as closely as possible? Does the Minister agree with me? Is he willing to pick that up? And is he willing to sit down with the D.A., the justice department and the parole board about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. This individual screening and the profiling of potential threats and repeat risk in the medium term seem very relevant to me. If you don't know who you're dealing with, you can't let go of a good intervention on someone like that, so make sure someone like that gets treated right or gets a good approach, which ultimately reduces that risk. I agree with Mr Grothuizen. I also believe that these kinds of issues will be discussed in detail in the forthcoming plans on more effective sanctions, on more effective sanctions. I say immediately that parole itself plays a role in this. It is already the case that parole does not only carry out community service or supervise such situations. She's also already being asked by the D.A. to advise on what appropriate sanctions are for suspects. If we bring those two close together, the circle will be round again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the Minister for his reaction. I am very pleased to hear that he agrees with me that we need to look more broadly at this risk profiling. What exactly is wrong with people? How can we best prevent people from falling back into recidivism with punishment or with a measure, a package of both or in the future, perhaps even with a completely different instrument? Because only if we really work to prevent repeated crime will we be able to make the Netherlands safer and prevent them from making more victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP. Or was Mrs. Van Toorenburg earlier? Yes, Mrs Van Toorenburg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this debate is getting a little surreal. Are we talking about people who are so dangerous that we have to protect our parole offices from people walking outside? These people should just report to the prison system to make an office there of the probation and if people don't behave, just don't open the door anymore? I think it's kind of a weird story. Like we're almost arming our people outside looking for someone to be safe outside because they're so dangerous on the street. That can't be the intention. So if the minister wants to take this into the law he's working on, it's worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	The target group involved in the probation is not an easy target group. You often have to take measures to ensure that the people who work there can also do that job safely. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that, of course, a limit must be drawn somewhere. I therefore believe that what Mr Van Gennip rightly says in his document, namely that the threat is sometimes so great that the order is returned to the Public Prosecutor's Office, is the right way forward. If an alternative punishment doesn't go because someone behaves incredibly badly or is a huge threat, then you just fall back on the old-fashioned prison sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. People who work day after day for the security of our society must also pay particular attention to their own security. In this respect, I have great understanding for parole workers who say that target targets do not belong in our waiting rooms. I understand that, but we must make a distinction. On the one hand, there are people who are threatened. In my view, we must find an alternative for them to securely monitor the probation. On the other hand, there are people who themselves express the threat towards the parole workers. I read in the article about throwing furniture, guilty of violence and death threats. In fact, I don't understand what these people are doing in probation. Then what's the penalty for that? Not just an additional sentence, but also the execution of the sentence that was still open? Can I hear the Minister a little more clearly on this than in what he has already promised in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	What Mr Van Nispen says has been taken from my heart. That line, the inclusion and consideration of behavior, should be followed not only at probation, but in my opinion much earlier, namely in prison when it comes to whether or not someone can qualify for, for example, a conditional release. We will soon be discussing this when the law is presented here in the House of Representatives. But that certainly applies to parole supervision. If you're dealing with someone who's on parole and who doesn't comply with the terms or threatens parole, as far as I'm concerned, it's just back. I like to talk about this, also with the probation, also because I can't bring it home properly. I'd like to know where this is playing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I was very shocked when I heard how serious the incidents are and that people are apparently still on parole. I understand that orders are sometimes returned to the state's attorney's office. First of all, my question is whether this means that people are going back to detention right away. The second question is whether there is always a threat report. These are, of course, people who perform a public task. Is there always a standard report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	I can't say that for the full 100%. I think it should be. I believe that we should have a very clear standard for people working in prison, police or probation or in other public tasks, namely that threats, intimidation and violence are not tolerated and will always be followed by a report. I also like to record this subject with the probation. In any case, we will always give that to you, but I do not dare immediately to put my hand in the fire to ensure that this is followed up in full by the organisations. Giving back to the state attorney what the fallback option is, depends a little on the modality in which prisoners or clients, let's just call them that, because they're not all prisoners. In the event of a conditional release, there is the possibility of sending someone back to prison. A community service can also be converted into a prison sentence, but there are also other forms of supervision where there is a stick behind the door, but not always towards the prison, and where the prosecutor can always come to a different enforcement than was originally agreed with the probation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
