ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is Mrs Westerveld's question, on behalf of GroenLinks, to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would like to welcome, on the message 'No more money to help students find work'. I call Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than 66,000 students go to secondary special education or to a practical school. These are students who often find it a little harder to learn. Many of these students do not get a diploma either, because that is not what practical education does. In short, this is a group that deserves special attention. Precisely for these pupils, we need to be ready to offer them good education in small classes and to help them get to the labour market. These students, for example, do not become lawyers, but fillers in a grocery store. Schools for secondary special education and practical schools do great work. I myself recently visited a practical school and saw how teachers help their students in every possible way. The European Union grants EUR 363 million for seven years. This pot is managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment and is intended to help pupils to work. Schools for practical education and secondary special education, as well as municipalities, can apply for grants. This money is used to bring pupils into contact with employers, for example, or to obtain training certificates, because that is not in the regular funding. This scheme runs from 2014 to 2020, but it turns out that the money is already running out. That means that a very large group of students will suffer. This also means that people are being dismissed; people who are helping pupils to find work and to get in touch with employers, so that they have a future after school. In addition, schools count on this amount. They now have a gap in the budget. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she agrees with me that we should accompany this particular group of students to work. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State how this could be done. How is it that such a math error has been made? And why is the amount not evenly distributed, but after a few years already gone? How's the Ministry gonna fix this? And I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she would like to talk to the schools in the near future in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mrs Westerveld for her question and certainly for the compliments she has given on practical education. I recognize the passion with which they want to help students who are not always easy to work for. I think we share the ambition that we want to put our shoulders on it to make it possible to participate, including for vulnerable people, especially vulnerable young people. We do this in different ways: through regular funds, but also through additional funds. One such additional source of funding is the ESF, the European Social Fund. Mrs Westerveld is right to say that there is about 363 million available for seven years. That is more than half of the ESF budget. Over the past decades, for almost 60 years, money has remained. Work was carried out in several periods and the money remaining was then put into a third tranche. It is actually the first time that you could say that the scheme is very successful and that the money is already running out in two boxes. We saw that coming, so we also issued a profit warning in that regard. We saw that a third instalment would not be possible. This is, of course, extremely unfortunate, because we can see that very valuable work is being done here. But certainly also because it is an additional flow of money and there are also regular possibilities to do this, I hope that we can continue this good work. I will certainly talk about this with the sector, with the schools. I'm afraid that won't work for the summer recess anymore. We have, of course, already had contacts from the Ministry, but I will do so personally, after the summer recess, so that we can continue to shape this ambition with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Secretary of State for your reply. The Secretary of State says it's very successful, but that's what I'm assuming this money is needed. Moreover, I hear from the schools that an error of assessment has been made. So it's a math error, which the Ministry is responsible for. What we are seeing now is that vulnerable students and schools are the victims of the mistake that has been made. I would like to ask the Secretary of State once again what she is going to do to resolve this. I also want to ask her if people should be fired from these practice schools. If so, does she know how many people are involved? Mr. Chairman. From 2021 onwards, a new programming period will be added and so a further subsidy can be requested. I'll ask the Secretary of State what this means. Does it mean that schools and municipalities will have to stop the programmes in which a lot of time and attention has now been sitting for a few years and then start them up again? What does that mean for the expertise? Is it going to be completely lost now? Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, also spoken with the people of the ruined schools themselves. They indicate that there would be a conversation with the Secretary of State last week, but that this conversation was cancelled two days in advance. I would like to ask the Secretary of State again if she is willing to talk to these schools to see a solution before the summer starts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to say that the money is available for seven years. That is indeed a considerable amount of money: the 363 million referred to by Mrs Westerveld. The money has a ceiling. This budget is it, so there was no more money. We have given the schools the opportunity to spread the money over a longer period of time. So we have extended the horizon in that respect. We also have regular means with each other to put our shoulders under this ambition. In the agreements we made with municipalities, we have identified supporting vulnerable young people to participate and make them work as a top priority. This enables a joint effort from SZW and from the municipalities, including through the resources available to municipalities. Indeed, I have unfortunately had to cancel the personal conversation I would have because of other busy activities, because it is a busy last Chamber week. I'm going to do my best to do that before the summer, but at least immediately after the summer recess a personal conversation is planned to see what we can do with each other. When it comes to the period after 2021, there are also discussions in Europe at the moment. The amount and use of the amount shall also be negotiated. Then we can go to the Netherlands and see how we are going to use it. I can well imagine that we will continue to regard the inclusive labour market, which these ESF funds also want to contribute to, as an important priority, but I also think that we will have to continue to go through the appropriate process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thanks again to the Secretary of State for the reaction. I also hope that it will be possible to have a conversation before the summer, so that it will hopefully be clear to these schools after the summer, but especially to the students. I do have a question about the municipalities. The Secretary of State now says to ask the schools to talk to the municipalities about it. We hear this more often here in the Lower House, that there is a problem nationwide and it is said: well, go to the municipalities. I ask the Secretary of State whether this means that all these individual schools must ask all these individual municipalities if they can get some extra money. Does she expect this to be successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I do attach great importance to clarity. That's why I did let last week's conversation go through with a whole expert delegation from the Ministry. I'm gonna do my best, like I said. In any case I didn't try to move it away, but I tried to indicate that besides this additional money flow there is also regular infrastructure. For this purpose, the municipalities are an important point of contact. We see that municipalities also often work together in labour market regions. There is also an effort to work with the municipalities from SZW in the coming period. I also hope that we can at least keep the infrastructure together and expect a good commitment in the future tranche as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone gives these students opportunities for a nice job. At the same time, a lot of employers are jumping at people. Surely it cannot be that a shortage of European money can lead to fewer young people getting a job in the end? My question to the Secretary of State is, therefore, whether, whatever the funding may be, she can promise that this will not lead to a reduction in the employment opportunities of these pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr President, I am actually very pleased with Mr Van der Staaij's question, which gives me the opportunity to emphasise that there are some 100,000 participants involved in the funds we have just talked about and have therefore received an internship or a job. This week, we also saw that the market and the public sector have achieved more than the job deal together. The signals from employers are also: we really need everyone and we are willing to invest in people. In reply to this question, I referred to the additional money flow. This is without prejudice to the fact that, with other additional projects or with all the regular resources we have, we will continue to work very hard to achieve these objectives, because I agree with Mr Van der Staaij: surely at this time it must be possible to give everyone a place in this labour market. That's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	I believe that Chamberwide agrees that we want to help all these young people, so that these funds are also very important. Is the Secretary of State therefore prepared to consider whether it is possible to raise funds on his own to cover the period up to 2021, or perhaps earlier in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	The money has been made available for the seven-year period, whereas we have now spent it in a shorter time. But there was a ceiling on this budget anyway. So, unfortunately, it is not possible for this money flow. However, we have agreed with municipalities that we are going to make the coming period a top priority of helping people who are vulnerable in the labour market. All the lectures have been formed so slowly, so we can get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	It is somewhat cynical: in Brussels, sometimes billions are thrown away with ease, and now the money is gone at once for this group. Does the Secretary of State not think that this task, to guide a vulnerable group to work from practical education and from special education, should in principle be our main task? She says: there will be additional plans. But she did not answer Mr Gijs van Dijk's relevant question: is the Empire going to pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	I tried very briefly to outline the infrastructure we work with. It runs for a very large part through municipalities. Municipalities also have resources for this. They can also shift these resources between themselves. If they have a practical school or a school for special education or have many students from those schools, they can also make extra efforts and offer tailor-made solutions. In addition, we had an additional cash flow. We have earmarked the ESF money for the Netherlands for an inclusive labour market. I also think it is right that we should continue to look together to see if we are going to do that again in the future. But these negotiations are being held in Brussels. It is not up to the Empire to make all kinds of specific funding flows, but it is up to us, together with municipalities, to see where we can give the priorities hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. I see that the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State is present for the next question. Welcome.
