ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	Now I'm going to the last question. This is from Mrs Özütok, on behalf of GroenLinks, to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, about the report that a top official received over €40,000 for 18 days of Curaçao. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you go up high enough, you'll get away with anything. This applies to business, but, as we know now, it also applies to government. A Director-General for Kingdom Relations has declared and received a foreign allowance which, as it appears, is quite different from the rules in force. I think that's a big problem. On this side of the ocean regularly sounds the reproach of a lack of integrity towards the countries of the Caribbean Netherlands. If I understand correctly, that is usually the direct reason for the Secretary of State to intervene. That obliges us to be careful. I wonder whether that has been the case in this case. Mr. Chairman. My questions are as follows. Was the granting of the foreign allowance justified? Have the rules applied to such situations been followed? If not, why has there been a deviation? Isn't it true that, according to the guidelines, you have to live abroad and not stay together for more than 60 days abroad? However, according to the Directive, only the person in charge can reasonably deviate from it, i.e. make an exception to it. Did you or one of your colleagues know about this deal? Did you agree to that? If so, why and at what point? What made this situation so exceptional to deviate from the rules in force? What justified the exception to the rule? How are these appointments monitored internally? Who will be informed about this? Think about finance or a department of P&D. It does not appear that the necessary checks-and-balances of the Ministry have worked. That's what I'd expect if you explicitly made exceptions to the rules in force. Are the Secretary of State aware of any other cases in which there has been a deviation from the directives in force? Has the Secretary of State himself agreed to such derogations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Özütok asks a number of questions that I can well imagine if you read the media coverage, because it is about a lot of money. But the most important question I have on the table is whether the rules have been properly observed and whether they have been acted with integrity. Mrs Özütok is quite right: over the past year we have talked a lot about integrity, in the Netherlands but perhaps even more within the Kingdom. Integrity is universal and applies everywhere, including in the Netherlands. Mrs Özütok said in an interim that it is also about being careful. I very much agree with that. Therefore, before we can draw any conclusions, it is very important that we know exactly what happened when and whether the rules that were in force have been properly applied or whether the tailor-made agreements that have been made are legitimate and complied with. That's exactly what we're doing right now. The Minister has already responded to it. Together we sent a letter to the Chamber in which we announced that the Audit Service will launch an investigation to determine independently what happened here. Call it a second opinion, because of course we have already looked at how it went. I attach great importance to this, because I want to be beyond any doubt that what has happened here actually corresponds to the image we have now. If we don't, then we'll look further, but we'll take it extremely seriously. Mrs Özütok mentioned that this scheme would apply to foreign countries. That's not right. It's about officials deployed within the Kingdom. These are not just BZK officials; they apply to all civil servants. The scheme, adopted in 2008, is the Supply Scheme Broadcasts Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. It has been agreed for everyone under which conditions you are eligible for what arrangement. We can find anything we want. In our research question towards the ADR, we have indicated: look at the content of the system; is that system still up to date? But more importantly, we know exactly what happened. That's exactly why we turned on the ADR. You were wondering if I knew if the Minister had signed it ourselves. That is not the case, but we are responsible. It is indeed interesting to see how the internal checks-and-balances have been, whether they have worked well or not, and whether any adjustments are needed. That will also be part of the investigation. You asked me if I had any more cases. No, but I can't rule out them being there. That is precisely why we ordered that investigation. That is what the first conversations are about today. I expect the ADR to start the investigation by the end of this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	I am pleased that the Secretary of State himself also says that the rules on behaviour and integrity are universal, that we all have to act on them and that care must be taken in doing so. I absolutely agree with him. I would like to comment on the study of the ADR. It's nice to hear that the investigation is even and that it can come to us in two weeks. As soon as the study is available, I would like to request a debate on the results and on how the checks-and-balances within the Ministry are proceeding. Well, there will be. I would also like to see in the study how reasonableness is being dealt with and the outcome of the conclusions may be that there will be a ruling on it. Why do I care? We are not talking here about a policy officer from the Ministry, but about a top official who deserves to be followed up. I notice that a lot of deals have been closed. In addition to a deviating foreign fee, this includes business class flights for the couple and compensation for the cost of accommodation. In short, it seems that this top official was very eager to be pampered. The question remains: why then? Or are we perhaps dealing here with the fact that the Law on Standards was put aside top incomes? Those are the questions I'm still dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think they're all legitimate questions. Let me answer some of them. I'd like to direct the other one to the ADR. I would like to assure you that the questions you are asking will also be given to the ADR to investigate, because some of these questions deal with compliance, the application of regulation and how that has been done. The reason was indeed a very clear one. At that time, August 2017, there were quite a few administrative crises in the Kingdom and there was some unrest. There was the need to fill in the function that came vacant. The then Secretary-General of BZK and the then Director of Kingdom Relations left. That had no causal link to that crisis in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, but there was then the need to fill it out with someone who was expert and experienced. There was an urgent appeal to this official to move towards the Netherlands. At that time, in addition to tailor-made agreements, we can see, as far as I can see now, that it seems that these agreements have simply been fulfilled as they have been made. Then there is still the question of whether these agreements can be made. The question of whether this can be done on the basis of regulation is something I would like to move on to an independent body, the ADR. That there was a need to do this and that at the time BZK very much wanted to ask this official, whom I obviously know well and of whom I know he is available 24/7 and has excellent qualities, I understand very well. The question you are asking is whether all this has been done in an orderly manner. Asking the question is not yet the answer and we all need that answer. I can promise that at the time that ADR report is available I do not know at what time it will be exactly, I want the investigation to be well, carefully and thoroughly done I, or actually we, the Minister and I, because the Minister is responsible for personnel policy, which will, of course, pass on an appreciation to the Chamber. Then you can decide whether you want to have a further debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my questions and await the investigation with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Then Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	€2,319 was paid to this official per day. He was on Curaçao for 18 days and received more than €40,000. This deal sucks. If that's true, will there be a refund? And can this official still just work in the Ministry? The Secretary of State has just returned from Statia and Bonaire, where he has quite rightly taken the measure of local politicians about integrity. But how credible is that if these kinds of deals are made in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	As I have just said, integrity is a prerequisite for doing this work. Not only in the Netherlands, but also within the Kingdom. It is an issue that we often discuss. Mr Van Raak knows how I act there. I'm acting pretty black and white in that, because there isn't a bit of integrity, as Ien Dales once said. I would like to repeat that sentence. There's no question about that for me. Mr Van Raak talks about a deal that is closed. He shares the amount resulting from that Supply Scheme Broadcasts Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations by the number of days that staff member has been in the area and then you come to that conclusion. That is not to say that I know that from my own experience, because I have worked with this official over the past year, that he has not also carried out tasks from the Netherlands that he could have done there if he had been there. That does not mean that he has combined two functions for a long time, which means that one function has not been filled and we have also saved costs from the government. This is without prejudice to the fact that the questions put by Mrs Özütok and the questions put by Mr Van Raak simply have to be answered. That's what I want. I already have an initial picture and an initial assessment of this, but I would like to have it independently tested, and that is precisely why we asked for the ADR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	Okay. Then Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Very good that the Secretary of State immediately asks the Audit Service to check whether everything went according to the rules, but that is always something you can hide behind. As long as the rule is followed, it's okay. The surgery was successful, but the patient died. This is an expense. I'm also asking a moral question. If you get paid into your bank account money that you know you're not putting in because you're much less than expected there, you can also at some point raise your finger and say: boys, I'm still getting amounts, but I'm just a lot less there. We are sitting behind people in this country, sometimes we check the toothbrushes that are at home, to see if, for example, a welfare allowance is being applied for illegally. That is really a substantially lower amount than that €2,319.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	And what's the question, Mr. Van der Molen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	I ask the Secretary of State whether, regardless of whether it's all done properly by the rules, he doesn't think the policy should be with the Ministry that if you get money for expenses you don't make, you'll also have the responsibility to stick your finger on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, yeah. Then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	I'm definitely not a regular fetishist. Those rules were established a decade or so ago in consultation between different parties because it was considered a reasonable provision for people we broadcast to parts of the Kingdom. The peculiarity of this situation is that the Ministry of the Interior called on this official while he was still in the area and had a number of costs there. Whether this compensation was more or less than the cost he had on the spot seems to me to be something on which the ADR can make recommendations. That is also the question: the content of the regulation. I think that we should be careful to zoom in on this subject on the basis of this one case, while that regulation applies to many more people. I'm very much in favour of equality. I am very much in favour of equal treatment in equal cases. This means that we have to deal with this very carefully. The moral question put by Mr Van der Molen is very interesting, but I cannot answer it from a political and administrative perspective because it is up to everyone to make that choice. The regulations require that one person is entitled to one or the other. That's how it works in this country. It can then be that individuals themselves make a different choice if they think that that is morally better; that space is there. But it's not up to me, as a representative of the Home Office, to impose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	Unless there would be undue compensation granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Secretary of State said that the Audit Service is not only going to see what happened, but also what this arrangement should be like in the future. And so the Secretary of State has an excellent opportunity to write in such a new arrangement: if something changes in your situation in the meantime, then you have a duty to put your finger on it. That is what we ask of someone with welfare benefits, and that is what we ask of a state official who receives expenses and who does not incur expenses. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include that in the new rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	This is a slightly different question than Mr Van der Molen just asked. I understand this question very well. Mr Van der Molen says: can you, on the basis of the experience so far, and perhaps also of this case, make an adapted or better arrangement that provides for a duty for someone who finds himself in another situation to report it? That is the result of that arrangement. I am not going to anticipate this, but I hope that when the ADR comes up with recommendations that will make these arrangements better than they are now, we will look very seriously at them. I will do so together with the Minister, because we are all responsible for this on our own territory. We will look very seriously at that because I have the same feeling, let me just say that. I have a feeling that if you add up those amounts and you look at them from a distance, you'll say, "This is a lot of money." This applies not only to this staff member, but also to many others who have been deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	And we have to handle every euro of taxpayers' money properly. But this is an arrangement that was devised ten years ago. And as a result of this case, it is certainly good to have another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	Yes. Then I will go to Mr Middendorp, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to expand the individual case very quickly, because that individual case is not really here for discussion. Our regulations regulating public sector salaries are now becoming very complicated. We have always said that working in the public sector does not involve excessive remuneration. But we have also said that the Chamber must really know about such far-reaching regulations. She needs to know the impact that regulation has on society. Because there are a lot of people who are committed to the public cause on a daily basis. I think it is very good that the Secretary of State is going to carry out this investigation, but would he also agree that he is indeed looking with the Minister of the Interior at what the recommendations might have consequences for all those regulations that we already have under the WNT?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u26	This is a question I understand, but I hesitate to go into it now. We are talking about this arrangement here. It is also the subject of research by the Audit Service Reich. This is about expenses. As far as I am concerned, this is separate from the debate on the WNT, which is also extremely interesting. But this is a cost regulation for people we broadcast, in this case within the Kingdom. That arrangement was drawn up ten years ago. It's always good to see if she's still up-to-date. But the fact is that people who are broadcast on behalf of the government are faced with expenses due to the fact that they have two households. That is all temporary, but there must be a proper arrangement for that. So that's what we're agreed on. Where these regulations are wrong in practice, you just have to take a good look at them. The fact that they sometimes turn out wrong could be clear on the basis of a case that is now coming to light. I would like to assure Mr Middendorp that we are going to take a good look at that. I would also suggest that he turn to the Minister of the Interior for all other matters, around the WNT and the discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you. Mr Middendorp wants to ask another question, but it is no longer possible because Mrs Tielen has already asked a question. Thank you. This brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
