ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mr Kerstens' question on behalf of the PvdA. That question is put to the Minister of Defence, whom I would also like to welcome, and is about being able to easily enter the Oldebroek barracks and place a fake bomb there. I call Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just drive into a barracks and lay down a fake bomb in these times of increased terrorist threat and, you may assume, increased attention. We can do that in the Netherlands. Mr. Bijleveld did it at the army site Oldebroek on the Veluwe. Mr.Bijleveld is not a family ván, we know by now, but the alter ego of Alberto Stegeman, presenter of the SBS-program Undercover in the Netherlands. The same Alberto Stegeman showed a few times before that it is apparently not so complicated to come up with a guarded Defence site. He already did it in Havelte, Oirschot and Woensdrecht. Unlike then, this time he didn't come into the grounds in cloaking clothing and he didn't ride off with an army vehicle. No, this time he was walking around for a couple of hours and he was just about everywhere. He did so without a pass, without an appointment and in his usual clothes, but with a fake bomb, which was left in the canteen of the barracks. When that fake bomb was discovered, it sounded a big alarm. Makes sense. It was a false alarm, so it was reported later, because the suspicious package didn't contain a bomb, it contained a photo of Mr. Stegeman. That wasn't mentioned at the time. Immediately after the broadcast, the Defence Department stated in a statement that there may not have been any action in accordance with the agreed procedures and that it is necessary to consider whether, and if so what, additional measures should be taken. That was a quick reaction, perhaps because it was actually the same explanation as all the other times. How is that possible, I ask the Minister? This time and before it was about Mr Stegeman, but we have already had the story of a convicted jihadist who was working on Volkel. Haven't any lessons been learned from the previous times? If so, which one? How does the Minister guarantee that things will be different and better this time, so that if we read about this next time, the news is that Mr Stegeman was stopped at the gate because he had no right to be at the barracks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that what has happened should not have happened, namely that Mr Stegeman has been unauthorized in various areas of defence. It is clear, of course, that the safety procedures have not been properly implemented. That's what's going on. Each visitor, I repeat: every visitor on a Defence site must be registered with the security and bear his ID visible. This applies to all visitors, no matter how they arrive; Mr Stegeman was transported here with a Defence vehicle from a station. Both the visitor and the employee must wear the pass visible. Persons who do not should be directly addressed by an employee who sees that. In case of doubt, they must be transferred to surveillance. Stegeman showed that access security isn't in order. Deficiencies have already been addressed. Defence personnel were reminded last week that the procedures in force must be applied, because it is a question of compliance with the procedures. That's what this is about. The examples quoted by Mr Kerstens are very diverse, but these are the procedures to be carried out. That's been reported again. I have also indicated this in an e-mail to all the staff. Every visitor will have to do the same. In the case of transport services, too, because it was the Defence transport service that was picking up people from the station and bringing them to the Defence site, the drivers were reminded that they should also check who they were transporting and that those people were under their responsibility on the ground. Monitoring has intensified. We will also continue to check this in a number of areas. That is what we are doing about it: just really implement the procedures as they were agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	Just before the recess in a debate, I indicated that I have never actually talked about culture as much as I have since I became the spokesman for the defence sector. Then it's about the culture at the Department of Defense. We now hear the Minister say that the procedures are in themselves correct, that the rules are in themselves correct, but that something goes wrong somewhere in the implementation. Mr Stegeman also points that out. In my opinion, he says literally: these are not incidents; they are structural leaks, and perhaps they also say something about the culture within the leadership of the Defense Department. Now I can imagine. Can the Minister do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	If you don't perform the procedures properly, things like this can happen. So everyone must be intrinsically aware that they work in a defence field and that that also means something. That's what we're working on on on a daily basis. In that sense, I can imagine something about that culture story, not in the sense that Mr Stegeman cited, but in the sense that you need to realize everywhere, wherever you are on a Defence site, and especially when you are in security and security, that you need to check who is there. Whether it's Mr. Kerstens, Mr. Koolmees or in this case Mr. Bijleveld, you have to check if they really are, and they must also be registered. This culture needs to be worked on, because the implementation is, of course, human work. But I have reminded everyone of the procedures, and we will continue to do so from the leadership, because security is the most important thing in our areas. That is clear to me and that is also the tone spoken from the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you for the Minister's answers. I hope the Minister will forgive me for not being fully convinced. For the previous times, of course, additional measures have been taken, and the same measures have been taken now, I think. I also mentioned the increased threat of terrorism in my introductory story. Alertness is much needed, of all of us, but of course also of the people of the unified services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	I find the answer a little unsatisfactory, because this is the third time we have talked about this. We're not talking about the security of some garden around the corner. We're talking about the security of our barracks. Our people at the DOD must be able to do their job safely. So when you say 'people have to follow the directives again', I think: I think that is really too little. I would like to hear from the Minister that she is going to do extensive research into how it is possible that people do not follow those rules, and that she is going to follow them up as soon as possible, who is sending people on courses, or who are going to impose any kind of sanctions on them. It would be really incredibly ugly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	... as well as our security people, who secure the place everywhere, aren't safe at the barracks. I therefore hope that the Minister will promise real improvement to the Chamber on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	I thought, after the recess, you'd know exactly what to do with short interruptions. But that didn't help either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	I am absolutely convinced that it is important for everyone's safety that the procedures agreed are properly implemented. We'll do everything we can. Over the past week, when we knew this, we have done a lot of things about it in different ways. The previous situations were all slightly different, but I am now starting from this situation, which is what it is all about. It is, of course, also important, I think it is right to say that defence and public prosecutors are looking at this matter together in order to see what it ultimately means for our work and to take additional measures from what we see there. But I can't give you any information about that right now. Now we just have to look for it in the implementation of the procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Minister; I say that through the President, of course. Thank you for answering that question, because my group too has been very concerned about it. I also had to think about the phrase "not everything used to be better," because when I was here ten years ago, there was exactly the same discussion and it was exactly the same Mr. Stegeman who came into the Defense Department and said, "it's not safe enough." You indicate: we are going to look at the procedures, we are going to look at them again. I sincerely believe that you mean that and that you intend to, but I would like you to give us a clearer assurance of security at that barracks. The security situation in the defence sector has been the subject of several general discussion here. I also think that D.O.D. employees should be safe in that place. What exactly are you going to do? When are you going to inform us about the approach you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	There has, of course, been no unsafe situation. People should not have walked there, but there has been no unsafe situation at the moment. It's still under investigation. I have already indicated what we are going to do in the answers to Mr Kerstens. I spoke to everyone once again about the implementation of the agreed procedures. That goes for everyone. So the access procedures have to be carried out. In this case, everyone has been written to. It was about the transport of the station. Unfortunately, barracks are often far away from the stations. People are then transported from the station with a van to the grounds. You can call a phone number. Those people need to check who they are, too. If they go out there with people, they know they have to sign those people up. That is the situation at stake. Monitoring will be stepped up. We have done so, and we will do so again. And we have an investigation under way which will allow us to take further additional measures, but we must wait for the results of the investigation. You know that, and I am glad that you say this so emphatically that the safety of our people is, as far as I am concerned, a top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you.
