ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Works Council Act to the powers of the Works Council concerning the remuneration of directors (34494).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Since Mr Özdil has to go to another debate earlier, he will speak as third. We shall now proceed to the first speaker from the Chamber, Mr Van Kent of the SP, with ten minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Employees need to be given much more control within companies. This is good for the interests of employees and to prevent companies from making major mistakes, such as the closure of profitable companies under the pressure of shareholders, and to prevent directors of Dutch companies from putting bizarrely high salaries in their pockets. It's getting way out of hand. Last year, the pocket fillers, who like to call themselves top drivers, received an average salary for the Dutch listed companies on average, I say 171 times a modal income. Modal income is about €37,000 a year. Does the Minister agree with us that this is scandalous, that this is completely out of control? I say again that it is average. That means there are drivers who get a lot more. Jean-François van Boxmeer, van Heineken, received 324 modes. 324 modes. It shows an unprecedented insolence to think you're 324 times more valuable than the people who make the money for you. It is not only a breeding ground for discontent and poverty that is now being broken between labour and capital, it is above all unjust. It is no longer in any proportion to the work done by a person and does the biggest capital of companies, the employees, seriously inadequate. Moreover, research conducted by Vlerick Business School in Belgium showed that listed companies that give their top executives relatively less income perform better. These companies not only pay lower salaries, but the bonuses also play a less prominent role. This runs counter to the position of many large companies, but also of other parties here, that you have to pay a lot to get and keep talent. Exorbitant rewards are therefore not only unjust, but also unnecessary and therefore stupid. Does the Minister also see that self-enrichment at the top is at the expense of workers and that the relationships between the top pay and the workers are completely lost? In order to correct this total imbalance between the abnormal top incomes and the salaries that employees receive, clear rules are needed. But the solution that this cabinet, or actually I have to say the previous cabinet, offers is three times nothing. What this bill is trying to do is that the works council, the representative of the employees within a company, has once a year a discussion about the rewards. One conversation a year. No right of advice, let alone right of consent, while the Minister also knows that this is really not enough. It is so weak that even this cabinet recognises and expects that it will certainly take a long time before there is any effect at all. Does the Minister really think that there will ever be any effect of this law? Workers must be given real control. With only a mandatory conversation, for very few people within companies something changes. Works councils are not given any tools to actually do anything about the level of remuneration at the top. As far as the SP Group is concerned, therefore, works councils should have the right to vote on the board's salary. The SP has tabled an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. Another way of reducing the gap between top salaries and employees is to bring top salaries under the collective agreement so that the agreements on remuneration are discussed and recorded at the same time. Is the Minister prepared to consider how this can be made possible? The person who owns the capital determines what happens when it comes to takeovers and mergers. The workers who earn the capital are on the sidelines. And that has major consequences: hostile takeovers, the closure of profitable companies under pressure from shareholders, companies that are bought up, put into debt and then dumped. Unfortunately, we see many examples where activist shareholders behave like vampires who drain a company to the last drop and then throw it away like garbage. For example, we've seen V&D. The same KKR took over Unilever's margarines, which ended as a disaster. Organon, PCM, attacks on Akzo, Ahold........................................................................................................ Those examples are piling up. Some time ago, Siemens in Hengelo was still in the news. A healthy establishment of Siemens, which just made a profit, but where the 650 employees are kicked into the streets without having to say anything about it. Another example is the recently published book on the Organon case. Seven years ago, this pharmaceutical company was taken over by the American MSD. Then the research department was shut down: 2,200 people on the street. And why? Not because no profits were made or because the company wasn't working properly. No, just for profit maximization. A company that went down by greedy shareholders. If the workers had a voice, this would probably never have happened. Is the Minister prepared to give employees more control? Our proposal is to strengthen the position of employees and give them control over top salaries and important decisions that have far-reaching consequences for employees and society. This can be done through the works council, but I would add that it can also be done through, for example, an employee's meeting or in other ways. Is the Minister prepared to amend this fake law in such a way that something is really going to change? Because that's what employees and companies deserve. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another inheritance bill from the previous cabinet. It's a little law I've wrestled a little bit with. What does it say? And what does the law actually do? If I understand correctly, and I would like a response from the Minister, this law says: the current Works Council Act already states that you need to communicate with the Works Council about remuneration relationships. I think it is very important, as I say to Mr Van Kent, that this discussion should take place. But if you look at the figures, you will see that only two thirds of the companies that provide information to the works council and that only 20% of the companies actually have the conversation. I do miss in the pieces why that actually happens. Why isn't that conversation happening? Can the Minister say a little more about that? Because I'm still looking for what's really at the heart of the problem. What this law does, I believe, is not a law that gives rise to too much raging language, but well, that I do not count this new minister on trying to express the spirit of the existing WOR, so that not only the spirit but also the letter can take place. I think it's important to have that conversation. The D66 Group believes that this is important because, while maintaining the responsibility we have, the board of directors and the board of directors at a listed company are concerned with the remuneration of directors, it is very good that this discussion should take place, because I recognize all the social debate on this matter that Mr Van Kent appoints. That conversation should really take place with the or and that is not happening at all. Is this law gonna help? I think that's another search. I also saw an evaluation amendment by Mr Öztürk. I can imagine that after a few years we will see if this actually does what it is intended to do. It actually aims at what we always wanted with the Works Councils Act: that a good discussion, every year, about the remuneration relationships within the company finally goes from paper to practice. The whole approach is actually more openness, no more and no less, that is what this law does. I have two further questions on which I have tabled amendments. The first question is that it already states that the supervisory board is in agreement twice a year with the discussion between management and works council. I have tabled an amendment which, should there be any need to discuss pay relations elsewhere than at one of these two meetings, i.e. at a possible third meeting or at another meeting, the Supervisory Board may be invited to do so. Because it is weird not to involve the body that ultimately decides on it, of course alongside the shareholders. That is why I think it is a rather technical amendment to just ensure that the conversation does not suddenly take place on a detour without the Commissioners. That sounds like a missed opportunity. I'd like a response from the Minister. The second question is actually a search for the following. If that concern is shared about the remuneration relationships, then what can the works council do with it to the grassroots? That's what we're worried about. I understand very well that there are privacy rules for this. This complicates my search for the amendment that was tabled a long time ago. I am curious about the Minister's reaction, but also about the extent to which these things are shared under secrecy, as far as they are already shared. 'Cause I'd be unhappy about that. Can the Minister say anything more about the current practice? I am, of course, making such an amendment particularly as I expect to make a difference with it. If that is not necessary, perhaps I will reconsider that amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil. Oh, Mr. Öztürk has another question for you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	A Dutch CEO earns 171 times more than the average income of an employee at the same company. What surprises me is why the companies are here: Shell, AkzoNobel and I also think Unilever. These are the companies to which we give an advantage through dividend taxation. Doesn't D66 think this is a little crazy? We give a dividend tax advantage of millions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	...and the CEOs make millions. Citizen's money goes to the gray culture and to the top people. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	I also think that these relations are very high. If I was on the works council of such a company, I'd like to have that conversation, too. I think the relationship with the dividend tax is quite different. We are doing dividend tax to ensure that shareholders also want to invest in these companies and that we keep those companies in the Netherlands. That money does not go to management, that money goes to keeping those companies here in the Netherlands by making it an attractive investment. So that doesn't go to drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	That money goes to the company. The top drivers control what they do with that money. If they give that to themselves, they will. So more or less you take tax money and give it to the gray culture of top drivers. Now that there's a D66 minister, I think it's time you at least indicated the dividend tax that it shouldn't and shouldn't go to top executives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Öztürk is now asking me to say something I think I have already said in the answer to his first question. The dividend tax is paid by the shareholders, not by the directors. Dividend tax is to ensure that shareholders invest in companies, so that we keep those companies in the Netherlands and the Netherlands is attractive for that. That money does not disappear in the pockets of drivers, that is not the issue at all. So Mr Öztürk is concerned about something that I do not think is at all relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, clearly. Oh, Mr. Van Kent also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	Of course, Mr Öztürk has a point. It is the companies that collect the tax on dividends, which pay 171 times higher salaries. But my question is about something else. I hear Mr Van Weyenberg say that he also thinks that the pay gap has become very large. Now we have a bill here that really doesn't do anything about it. I think we'll soon agree on that. But what proposals does D66 have to change this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	Look, the purpose of the Law on Works Councils was always "I mentioned that the spirit of that law "that that conversation is also taking place and that the works council can say something about it in a conversation with directors." It's on paper now, and it's not going to happen very much. It is about the direction to ensure that this is done in practice, about the purpose of this bill. You don't think that goes far enough, but I agree with that objective. Furthermore, shareholders are not about that. So I guess we all have things. As a customer, Mr Van Kent can no longer buy goods from companies whose pay differences he finds exorbitant. If he has control of his pension fund, he can tell that pension fund: do you want to take that into account and put pressure on it as a shareholder? But that is where this has to be done: at shareholders' meetings. And we must say here in this debate that we consider this to be extremely different. With regard to individual companies, I say that they all have to make their own assessment. I believe that this legislative proposal properly regulates the division of responsibility between shareholders, supervisory directors, management and or, in fact, keeps the way we've dealt with it for years. So that's the route I see in front of me. Moreover, I would venture to doubt whether a right of advice that is actually very close to what I think is already happening, namely that you can just talk about it and really add something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yes, that is exactly why we are not advocating an advisory right, but a right of assent. That is also the proposal I have just made. I just heard Mr Van Weyenberg literally say 'these relations are the way we have had them lately, and we are maintaining them'. But apparently that doesn't work, because the differences between the rewards of employees and those of the pocket fillers at the top are only increasing. So again the question to Mr Van Weyenberg: what additional power do you want to give the workers to do something about this? Or are you going, as you just said, to call on customers of listed companies to strike as consumers? I think it would be easier to arrange that through employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	For example, in the area of workers, I heard you propose a collective agreement. Well, let unions bring that in to collective agreements. Moreover, I believe that the role of collective agreements should be even greater. I think you're less enthusiastic about that, but that way I can all think of ways to arrange it. I am simply going to deal with this bill, in which we want to ensure that the employee gets a bigger role or actually gets a role at all. What was meant by that law is not yet off the ground; I agree with you. So in the end, as you rightly said, I agree with the proposal of the previous cabinet. Let us make sure that what is in the spirit of the law also happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. No, Mr Van Kent, you will not be interrupted for the third time, because neither did Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	Is that a deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	It is customary that we do interruptions in duplicate. At least, that's unless you're challenged, Mr. Van Kent. Then I'll go over the heart by hand. We're gonna listen to Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to my colleagues for their flexibility. Mr. Chairman. The pay gap is almost nowhere in the world as big as it is in our country. Dutch CEOs, bosses of listed companies, earn an average of 6.9 million euros per year. Only in America and Switzerland are drivers paid more. The result is that Dutch bosses get 171 times the average income of our country. 171 times! This is well above the so-called Tinbergen norm, which is named after Dutch economist Jan Tinbergen. According to Tinbergen, no official within a company is worth earning more than five times the average salary of that company. Mr. Chairman. People at home don't get it anymore. They feel on their clogs that it's not right. This is self-enrichment at the expense of ordinary women and ordinary men. That is unfair, inhuman and, if I may put it that way, unDutch. Our country used to be a beacon of equality and equal opportunities. Meanwhile we are on our way the other way. The inequality has been increasing for decades. Mr. Chairman. The rack's really out now. That's enough. That's it. That's it. It's time for a change now. It's time we put the economy back on the line for the people instead of the other way around. This bill makes it compulsory for directors and works councils to discuss remuneration relationships. GroenLinks believes that the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board should be present in these discussions, because they are responsible for the top rewards. That is why we welcome the D66 amendment, which says that remuneration should be discussed at the meeting on general matters. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, compulsory conversation is a good first step, but it is far from enough. It is incredibly important that, if the pay gap is to become even bigger, workers should actually be able to stop it. So if the difference between top executives and the average salary gets bigger, the works council really needs to have the right of assent. I have therefore prepared an amendment for this, together with Mr Gijs van Dijk. I hope the Minister will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr President. What is the largest capital of a company? Those are the people who work there. Eventually, those people are essential to the growth of a business, for its value. The employees of the companies are the largest capital. Mr. Chairman. In my previous job, in the trade union movement, I talked to a lot of people. The past few years have been tough years for a lot of people who worked at companies, because the economy was bad. So it often went bad with many companies in the Netherlands. And that's what the employees have noticed: zero lines, minimum wage increases and a lot of layoffs. But in the meantime, we saw something quite different happening at the top of companies. If you look at the past 20 years, you can see that we have risen from a wage gap of factor 30, then it is the lowest income in a company versus the highest, namely that of the top driver, to factor 50 or 60 now, despite the huge crisis we have all experienced. In those discussions with employees, I also noticed that employees are connected to the company and are willing to make sacrifices. But in the meantime, they saw the summit enrich themselves: another bonus, another wage increase. That rightly leads to great social discontent in the explanatory So it is not something we should leave alone to the companies. It is a political task to strengthen the position of employees, because they are ultimately the company's capital. They must therefore also have their say and control, as much as possible. This bill, which is indeed from the previous cabinet, is a first step. The spirit of the Works Councils Act already says this, as Mr Van Weyenberg rightly says, but it is still formalized. That's, I think, a little first step. We certainly support that, but as far as we are concerned, that does not go far enough. I would like to draw attention to the enormous gap that is still growing, to the social discontent, to the employee capital of companies, to employees who feel unfamiliar, who see that the summit enriches themselves, while they themselves are not getting richer. In fact, wage increases are still lagging behind many companies. It is therefore important that we take an extra step. We therefore propose, together with GroenLinks, that an amendment should create a right of consent in the event that a company decides to split the rewards even further. I think that is a very reasonable proposal. So we are not saying that there should be a right of assent in the first place, but that should be done when the pay gap in a company becomes large. Then the works council will also have a real right of assent. I hope for a positive response from the Minister. It is essential that we interfere with this policy and take another step through a right of assent. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the right to speak of works councils. This is now regulated by nvs, but not by e.g. foundations and foundations. Is the Minister prepared to take a look at that, too? I'm considering tabling a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr President, thank you. I recognize the struggle that colleagues have already mentioned here by this law. Is this law gonna help? How does that work out? What's that gonna add? When I hear it like that, I think we all feel this. Top executives sometimes frown in our eyebrows when generous rewards are offered, but the staff are likely to stay on the zero line. Then I can really imagine that people in the workplace also think: isn't the relationship lost here? It is therefore really important, essential that companies really pay attention to this. The or is a very important link in that. Mr Gijs van Dijk said that employees are the large capital of a company. I like that. It is also important for companies to be aware of this, that they feel that way, and that this is reflected in all the discussions that are taking place in that company. We would like that, but the remuneration of directors, for example, is, of course, a matter for the board of directors, the supervisory board and the general meeting of shareholders. By means of this debate, which I believe is the profit of this debate, despite the fact that the change in the law is very limited, of which you can find all kinds of things, and of which I also find all kinds of things, we are talking about the head of the government to the people about the responsibility they have under the law and the statutes, in the role of the board of directors, in the role of the supervisory board and also in the role of the shareholder. Mr. Chairman. Then the law. You know the VVD, of course. We believe that regulation should serve a clear purpose and have added value. When we look at this bill, we have doubts about it. Certain points have already been mentioned by a number of parties. We have doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this law. Of course, the greatest world revolution will not break out with this bill we understand, but when we see how critical the Council of State is about this bill and even suggested not to send it to the Chamber, then our reservations are fed up with it. The nature and extent of the problem, its added value and its effectiveness are still unclear, says the Council of State. Of course, everyone will occasionally look with raised eyebrows at the high salaries, but those are not a task of the government but of employers and employees, of owners and of shareholders. In recent years we have also adapted the law to give the works council more control over it. Since 2010, the works council has also been able to discuss remuneration policy at the general meeting of shareholders. This may be done far too little. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this and how we are actually going to improve it. But this bill is very limited and has so little added value that we think it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	I just heard the VVD say that there is a huge injustice between the top drivers and the average employee. Workers are the capital, you said. Then you say that the employee and the employer must decide and that the government has no role in this. But if the employee doesn't have the resources or is weak, then the government still has to strengthen the employee, I suppose. How do you see the role of the government in strengthening the employee's position in achieving his right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	The works council is a very important element in the checks-and-balances in a company. It is also up to the works council to really claim that position. I think the works council can still make a profit there. You can also see this in the information sent to works councils, including about rewards. You can have the conversation about that, too. The Council of State says that this discussion is actually already there, that this can be done twice a year, that this is already mandatory and that the supervisory bodies have a duty to do so. But you've got to get that part, too. In recent years, we have strengthened the law on this so that the works councils can take that role. But it is a responsibility of the employers and employees. The remuneration is a matter for the board of directors. The general meeting of shareholders shall establish the general criteria. The Supervisory Board makes it specific and looks after it with each other. The or is a very important link in that, but that role must take the or. I wonder how the Minister looks at the fact that works councils can take that role even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	The VVD knows that we can't deal with this injustice alone. More needs to be done. This means that we have to and can say from the government that this can no longer be done. 171 times more than a modal income can no longer be achieved. These companies are going bankrupt. Banks have gone bankrupt in recent years while they have given millions of bonuses for years. Who saved them? The taxpayer, the government. Now they get the abolition of the dividend tax as a gift. The government certainly has a role to play. Are you prepared to make agreements with these big companies and to say, where such companies apply for subsidies and they need the government for other things, that we are only willing to help them if they tackle that injustice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	This goes a bit towards the question asked to Mr Van Weyenberg. Let me say this about it. Social debate on this is very important, but this issue is not solved immediately with more and other laws and regulations. That is why I say: over the head of the government, we address people to the responsibility they have under the law and according to the statutes in their organisation and to the responsibility that employees themselves have to hold that conversation. In my view, it is important that we start to understand the power of this, without saying from the sidelines what can be better and with that we have the idea that we are going to solve it all with legislation and regulation. In recent years, we have added a lot of legislation and regulations to strengthen the position of the or. It is important that works councils should now also strengthen that position themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Wiersma spoke nicely about the importance of the employees in the companies. This bill strengthens the or again. It's a small step. It is a bill from a previous cabinet, namely that of VVD and Party of Labour. Do I understand correctly? It's a little vague that the VVD is now withdrawing the aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	Excuse me if I've been vague. In fact, we consider this proposal to be superfluous. It seems as if I am proclaiming the revolution here, but I think that is not so bad, because I think everyone is saying that this bill is superfluous. That is why, for example, you have tabled an amendment to change the proposal. We are not proposing an amendment, we are simply saying that we do not see this bill as a major addition and that it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said that, in the spirit of the Works Council Act, remuneration policy should already be discussed, but that this should not be done in practice. Now this bill regulates a very practical point, namely once a year consultation; that's it. What could the VVD have against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	The Council of State says that this is already part of the possibilities it has. I suggest you read that. There are already mandatory meetings twice a year on the general state of the business. There is also the obligation to provide information about the rewards and the proportions, so exactly what you indicate here. Actually, that conversation's already there. That is what I say, but that is what the Council of State says, which notes that this has no added value, that the debate is about effectiveness and that the nature and scope are under discussion. You yourself probably said in the previous cabinet: I do not care; I think it is important that we discuss this. We have always been critical of this, even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u34	You were in the same cabinet!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u35	But in a cabinet, you can still be critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u36	It is logical that the businessmen and the businessmen themselves should consult and ensure that it is more balanced. There's a social discussion going on. The story is now about one sentence. By strengthening one sentence in the law, works councils are given just a little more tools to deal with that conversation with the directors properly. You are right: at the moment it is already the case that information on the financial system and the remuneration system should be provided, but it is not the case that this information should also be included in the conversation. That's the difference. What does the VVD have against the fact that the information that is being provided simply comes out during that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u37	It could be on the agenda. This also applies to the annual accounts, which are actually on the agenda at that mandatory meeting. That information can therefore not only be discussed, but is usually also on that agenda. That's what the Council of State says. Apart from that, I understand what you are saying, but at the same time I think you should also take a critical look at the value of that addition. I have also read that organisations such as MNO, the representative of works councils, are very critical of this and do not see the need and usefulness of this. There are also organisations that say it could go wrong; so does the Council of State. It may also mean that it is assumed that this has been discussed in the or, therefore, agreed with it and that this leads to a less strong position of the or. I think that's a danger. I can't properly assess that on the basis of this law. That's why I'm thinking, "Let's not do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u38	I think this is a bit of a scary policy. I just think that this or should show more balls and just show that he stands up for the workers and the reward system and that the or should therefore have the opportunity to talk about it, because this is exactly the essential point: it can be discussed but it does not have to be discussed. With this change in this law, no matter how small it is, make sure that the or gets the means to discuss it. Then of course it is up to the or to show balls and, if the or disagrees, to show that, but what is wrong with this and why would you be against this essential point, namely that this should be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u39	I repeat what I just said. You call that "frightened"; I call that "realistic." I would also like to mention this: to read carefully what is already in the law, which is already possible and which role the or already has and should take into account. As I said, it may not be enough for the right to speak to the shareholders' meeting and to speak there. All this can be done, but the works councils must also take that role. So my question to the Minister is how we are going to take care of that. When we implement legislation and regulations, I think it is important that this is really useful legislation and regulation that is going to make a difference and that is going to lead to something. I have questions about this and I have heard them from several colleagues here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u40	My question to Mr Wiersma is whether the VVD agrees that the pay gap between the bosses of listed companies and the average employee has now risen to 171. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u41	I don't know how to judge that. As I have just said, I think we all frown on working conditions. Then I am not going to say as a policeman: you are doing that wrong and you are doing that wrong. We have, with a great deal of legislation and regulation, shared responsibilities between the board of directors, the supervisory board, the shareholders' association and the or and they must take up that role. If they are very concerned about this, sometimes I think about the sidelines that they might be allowed to do so a little more; I would encourage that as a policy I am not going to say: that is good and that is not good. That's up to the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u42	If Mr Wiersma qualifies his work as work on the sidelines, that is on him; I will refrain from doing so. Nor have I received a clear answer to my question. It wasn't a yes and it wasn't a no, but I did taste a frowned eyebrow at the VVD. My second question is whether the VVD is prepared to help us, GroenLinks and Party of Labour, and to frown less by supporting our amendment. That says very mildly that if the pay gap is likely to get bigger and the eyebrows are frowning even more at the VVD, there is right of consent with the working man.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u43	I really appreciate this effort. I have been watching my eyebrows to see if they will frown more on the amendment. That was the case. I'm afraid to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u44	I hear the VVD saying here that the bill isn't much. I'll soon agree with the VVD on that. Then I hear the VVD say that the employees are the capital within the company and that they must also have control and so on. But then I hear that the board of directors, the Commissioners and the shareholders actually have control of it. The or may have a chat and possibly speak at the shareholders' meeting, but that's it. If the VVD really wants to change something, should we agree here that the employees will have real control, namely right of consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u45	There may not be a lot of people looking at this debate, but if they are looking and they are in an or, then I find what you are saying about an or, a disqualification of the position of the or and the quality of the people who are trying to interfere with those companies and feel that law is a support. Pretend that nothing has been arranged at all and that it doesn't work, that's not true. They have to take that position stronger themselves. I do not foresee that the right of assent is a solution. We're not for that. You can look at that differently when you say that the or should also conclude a collective agreement. That is a discussion by Mr Van Weyenberg; I liked that. Is that what you're here for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u46	I hear the VVD summing up what is possible in the current situation. If we look at the practice now, we can see that at the top of listed companies, we are earning 171 modal salaries. What can be done is apparently insufficient to really do something about it. The previous cabinet, which you were also part of, has made an attempt to do something about it with this law. You very quickly agree that this is a very small step, an almost negligible step. This means that if we are to take this problem seriously, we really want to do something about it, give the works council much more power together. I am not saying that the works council is not taking up this role right now, but I am saying that the works council should be given more control and power within an undertaking because we see in practice that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u47	I would ask you whether they could conclude collective agreements. Then you give them power and control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u48	Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u49	Very nice, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wiersma knows the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u50	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u51	No, then that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u52	Then you give them power and influence, so I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u53	It's not a mix-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u54	This is about remuneration policy. I want to give the works council and the employees more say in the remuneration policy. The VVD seems to be fine with it as it is now, because it seems that it does not want to support any proposal here to give the works council more power. I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u55	That is not the case at all. We also want to give them real influence, and you do not do that with rules and legislative changes that actually mean nothing in practice. You do this by, for example, having a discussion about whether the or should have an impact on the collective agreement. You say you want to involve them much more firmly in the reward. Then add the deed to the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u56	Now you don't have to start a new discussion every time, because then I have to give Mr Van Kent the floor every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u57	Yeah, but I know he likes it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u58	Finally, concluding. I would ask you not to be challenging again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u59	I know that Mr Wiersma is from the trade union movement. He has now switched to a party that is the enemy of that same trade union movement. He is also in favour of weakening this trade union movement, but I am in favour of strengthening the works council, i.e. by giving control over the top rewards. Mr Wiersma says here all the time that workers need to have more influence on this, but then he does not propose to take any steps. In fact, the only thing the VVD comes up with is: this law is nothing, we're not going to vote for it. However, the employee and the VVD's board of entrepreneurs do not have any additional control whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u60	Finally, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u61	I do not think that this is at all in line with what I have just said about the social debate, about the role we have here as politicians and about our responsibility to talk to people about it: the companies, the employee himself, the board of directors and the general meeting of shareholders. But you're gonna need rights for that. They're in the law right now, too. We'd better use it. I just asked the Minister how we're going to do that. We do not have the illusion that this is going to mean that world revolution. That is, frankly, also with this bill. By the way, I do have a history in the trade union movement. I was also a member of the VVD for a number of years. It's a big compliment to that trade union movement that can do that. So it doesn't depend on your political color whether you can stand up for employees. That's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. Let us now listen to Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a legislative proposal whose aim is to contribute to balanced remuneration. This is also apparent when you read the explanatory memorandum and the note following the report. In the explanatory statement, the previous minister, from the previous cabinet, is constantly raising the question of the contribution to the social debate and awareness. I share the importance of this social debate. All the previous speakers have done the same. It is important for the organs to talk about this and it is important for this to be discussed in the boards of directors and by the shareholders, which Mr Wiersma mentioned. This applies to all companies. In this debate, only a few works councils are mentioned, but you have works councils in many companies. Some of these companies are much and much smaller, and in terms of salaries they are often small. At the same time, I have real doubts about this bill. Mr Wiersma and other speakers have already indicated the same thing. I am not convinced of the added value of this bill. In preparing this debate, I had to think of a debate we had during the previous period on the initiative legislative proposal by Yücel. That was also about the works councils. I had even more difficulty with that proposal, because that bill gave rise to the suggestion that the or would be given a power, which was not actually there in the legislative proposal. The Council of State also made that very explicit. Then there is a great risk that you will put the political discussion and the social discussion down to an or. This gives rise to the suggestion that the or is going to solve this, while in practice it is not. Furthermore, Mr Wiersma was right to point out the risks posed by this bill in the country of participation. I am not in favour of giving consent. That's not what the or is for. I do not think the works councils themselves are in favour of this either. I don't think that's wise. In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, Minister Asscher stated that it was deliberately not chosen to do so. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this, partly in the light of the various amendments that have been tabled. In view of the current WOR and the existing provisions, this information should be provided for the discussion at the General Assembly. The Council of State and Mr Wiersma pointed out: what does that third provision add? I'm not convinced of this. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Özdil is not convinced and has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u65	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mr Heerma about what he just said, to get that clarified. He says, "It doesn't add anything." Why exactly? And, if you allow, related to a question 1b: does the bill, instead of adding nothing, have a counter-effect? Or let me put it this way: is it a bad bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u66	In my view, I have just indicated, referring to the Council of State, that Article 31d of the Works Councils Act already contains a provision which states that this information must be provided for the purposes of the discussion at the meeting on the general business of the company. It doesn't say that it has to be discussed. No, that information is provided for the purpose of the discussion there. The Council of State, too, is giving word to the President-in-Office and I must say that that is also my feeling that adding a third, almost identical provision to that law, does not change so much. The second part of Mr Özdil's question is: if it does not benefit, it will not harm. We also need to look at the legislation we are making to see if there is any added value; otherwise we are working on legislation with the aim that we want something, whereas that does not really change anything. But there may also be risks. That's why I referred to Yücel's bill. This played a lot more with that bill, because all the experts said that the suggestion of the bill was something that didn't. What you then do is to argue in a political discussion that works councils can do something, whereas that is not the case, which makes the work of works councils more difficult. We all know that it is not easy to find people who are willing to participate. If you make that harder, it might be harder to find those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u67	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u68	So there are risks to it, too. I do not want to make it very large, because this is a very small bill, but the argument of 'if not, it does not harm' is not enough for us as legislators. There are also risks to which others point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr. Heerma, I'm asking you to answer shorter. You're perfectly clear, so it shouldn't take that long. You are very clear in your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u70	I wanted to answer the question he asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u71	It feels like an honor, Mr President, to hear from my colleague from the CDA such comprehensive answers. And it was very clear indeed. If I understand him correctly, what I think I'm doing, he actually says between the lines that he supports the amendment from GroenLinks and the PvdA. That is precisely the improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u72	Well, then it wasn't so obvious! Just kidding, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Mr President, for this neutral role in this debate. I apologise if I have been very unclear, but I already gave the answer to that question in the speech to that effect. I am not enthusiastic about proposals or amendments which give a right of assent. This isn't how we're supposed to do it. Minister Asscher also writes very clearly: that responsibility lies with the board of directors, with the supervisory board, with the shareholders. The or has a very important, beautiful task in organizations, also in many smaller organizations. I do not think that amendment is what we should do. I come to the last part of my speech. I am glad that Mr Özdil is still here because he indicated that he must leave quickly. I will come back to the issue of awareness and what we might be able to do about it, other than legislation. We are discussing legislation here; the aim here is not to raise awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. It's a very simple bill. As Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out, the facts at present are that 20% of works councils talk about remuneration policy. This bill makes it very simple that it should take place with any works council, or at least the possibility that it may take place once a year. It's as simple as that. We now seem to drift a bit towards a kind of swamp with intricacies around the position of the or, but this is a very simple clarification of the current WOR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u76	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u77	I put a question mark on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u78	The complexity to which Mr Van Dijk himself refers will arise as a result of questions about amendments which do something other than the legislative proposal for which he has just made a plea. Giving consent is another discussion; and this complicates the discussion. When it comes to the position of the or now and the facts, I would like to end my speech by asking a number of questions about the 2012 investigation which is discussed in the explanatory memorandum. I wonder, on the basis of that explanatory statement, whether there is any new information available on these facts. I did not find the argument in the explanatory statement, which is already a few years old, so convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr Heerma continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr Van Dijk has indeed given me a good lead on what I want to conclude with. The legislative proposal, the explanatory memorandum and the note on the previous Minister's report refer to the social debate and the need for awareness. Then I think, "That's good." It is about discussions in shareholders' meetings, in which trade unions often have a role in which people of the VVD can also be members and can also work for them. I think it is very good in this country that works councils are in position. I am curious to see what role the Minister sees for himself in relation to this social debate, regardless of the legislative proposal. We are indeed talking about a legislative proposal here and not about the raising of a subject. The above-mentioned explanatory memorandum cites an investigation carried out in 2012. My question is whether there is more recent research than that. We're talking about six years ago. The explanatory memorandum states that 20% of the works councils hold discussions. This does not mean that 80% of the people do not do their job. It may be that the 80% have not been identified as a problem or that it has been discussed but has not been discussed. Is it true that it allows you to use the thesis that there is apparently great reluctance to discuss this? I don't know if it's based on what it says. So is there more recent research and is there any indication that works councils are not dared to do so or are not yet sufficiently aware of it? If there is more to this indication than is apparent from the brief reference to this study, then the question is whether there are other ways of raising awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Gijs van Dijk, do you have a question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u82	Sure. First of all, I would like to make a small comment about the trade union movement and VVD members. The trade union movement has more VVD members than that party itself. So you can see that there are members within the trade union movement very broad, from left to right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u83	It is a pity that the tone to say something positive... In any case, I am pleased that Mr Van Dijk also stresses that we should not pretend to be members of the trade union as something that is reserved for people in one part of the political spectrum, which would not be appropriate to the nature of our polder model.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u84	Exactly. That's very broad. But this was a little out of order, Mr. Chairman, excuse me. Mr Heerma is right that these are old facts, now six years old. Suppose the facts are still the way they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr Van Dijk is now responding to part of what I have raised. The investigation is indeed six years old. I have therefore asked if there are any more recent figures. Mr Van Dijk now speaks of the facts. My question to the Minister is whether, on the basis of that six-year-old investigation, you can put it so hard that these facts are so. The study indicates that information has been provided by far the majority of cases but that it is discussed in one in five cases. But with regard to the assumption, also in the written round, that 80% would not dare to do so when there was reason to do so, I wonder whether these are the facts. I'm not saying I know what's going on here. I wonder whether the evidence in the explanatory memorandum justifies that conclusion. I believe that 20% of the cases have been discussed. It may be that more awareness is needed at works councils and that more recent figures indicate that this is happening. Even then, you can ask whether a legislative proposal is the appropriate means of doing so. Mr Van Dijk says: these are the facts. I say to him that it is not just a question of time, but also of whether, on the basis of that research, you can draw that conclusion so hard. That is what my question to the Minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u86	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u87	I understand Mr Heerma's request that these figures should be understood in this study. One of the things that I think it shows is that with the 80% that you do not discuss there is at least a substantial share that does not receive the pieces at all. Because yes, a majority gets the information but one third doesn't yet, while it's in the law. Mr Heerma agrees with me that we also need to know why a third party does not receive the documents at all. If you don't get them, you can't even talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u88	In my view, Mr Van Weyenberg is actually asking me a question in the event of interruption which I could have asked the Minister. I agree with him when he adds to the question I have asked whether there are any more recent figures available. Because I agree with him, if you look at the law and the importance of it, that the fact that the information is not always given might be a bigger problem than how often that leads to discussion, although in percentages it is much smaller. So the question of whether there are more recent figures that it is actually being made available is a relevant question that Mr Van Weyenberg is asking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u89	That gives me the opportunity to say that Mr Özdil is currently taking part in another debate, on education, and is therefore no longer here. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, the PVV underlines the starting point for ensuring that directors' remuneration is negotiable and transparent for works councils. The current legislation also allows for this. It is primarily up to companies and works councils themselves to put this into practice. The Works Councils Act already provides for companies to provide information on workers' working conditions and remuneration arrangements. In addition, the information provided may also be involved in discussions between management and or. It can also be read in the explanatory memorandum that half of the companies affected by this bill are already in the conversations. So it goes well in a lot of places, but it can also do a lot better in many places. That is why, as PVV, we say: no matter how small this law is, it is indeed relevant. Why is he relevant? Because it has not yet been arranged that during these talks there should also be a discussion about the system of remuneration. That is the essential difference from what is going on right now. That is why we believe that it is difficult to oppose it when that is the case. How can you be against strengthening the position of the or at this point? It is still up to the companies themselves to deal with this whole system. A lot of questions have also been asked to this Minister. I await the answer and I conclude with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u91	Finally, we are going to listen to Mr Öztürk's contribution from the DENK Group from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr. Chairman. There has been self-enrichment at the top of business for years. This has also been one of the biggest annoyances for many people for years. A lot of people have to work hard for a modest salary. At the top, quite different standards seem to apply. That's where it's often grabbed and grabbed what you can get. DENK says stop this gray culture. Stop the self-enrichment of the summit, which is at the expense of the employees on an ordinary salary. In 2006, the Law on Works Councils was amended. At that time, an information obligation on remuneration was introduced in the summit. Today we are discussing an amendment to the Works Councils Act. In this bill it is mandatory to discuss the remuneration policy in the consultation meeting with the OR. Hopefully this will lead to less self-enrichment. The government mentions as an important argument that in only 20% of the cases there is a real discussion between the OR and the board of directors on remuneration. So in many cases the already existing information obligation does not really lead to the pay being discussed at the top. This argument is crucial for the DENK Group to support this bill. A law that does not achieve the objective sufficiently in practice needs to be adapted and improved. The debate on the large differences in pay between the top and the workplace has been going on for a long time. In 1997, Prime Minister Wim Kok talked about excessive self-enrichment at the top of business. Wim Kok also mentioned the common pocket fillers. Twenty years ago, the problem of gray culture at the top already played. A few years later, in 2003, it was the same Wim Kok who joined all kinds of supervisory boards, from PostNL, KLM, ING and even Shell, the champion of big business. In this new position Wim Kok suddenly collaborated on the same excessive self-enrichment. For example, in the course of three years, Wim Kok increased ING-topman Tillmant's salary by 584%. In 2003 and beyond, all top salaries were exposed by new legislation. This led to an annual discussion on top salaries. We have had Anders Moberg of Ahold, the ten million-dollar man, Rijkman Groenink of ABN AMRO, the 30 million-dollar man and Jan Bennink of Numico, the 80 million-dollar man a year. Imagine that: 80 million euros a year. That is more than the salaries of all Members of Parliament, staff and ministers combined. That's what a top driver deserves. That's crazy. In 2015, we had Shell top man, Ben van Beurden, at 24.2 million a year. Of these, 10.7 million was for his pension and 7.9 as compensation for his taxes. While everyone has to pay taxes, Mr Van Beurden seems to think that he is the only one to avoid it. That is, of course, bad for tax morals. This is bad for the credibility of the business summit. Unfortunately, Mr Van Beurden does not know how to stop. He re-rapped 8.6 million euros in 2016. And now Shell wants to abolish the dividend tax. I guess it's never enough for Shell. Shell is Caterpillar Never enough. This unbridled greed at the top must be stopped. In the TV show, "What do you make?" Last Monday's BNNVARA showed that in some Dutch companies the top earns up to 150 times as much as the workplace. I would like a response from the Minister as to whether this is correct and how it can be monitored systematically. And then we are having a discussion here about what young people should earn and whether they can get a few more hundred euros. Millions are brought to the top, with all kinds of tax advantages. Income inequality is now mainly measured by the gini coefficient, but that is a very abstract measure that most people say nothing. I'm suggesting another measure. How much does the board of directors earn compared to the average salary on the workplace and to the lowest salary? Let's give them the name of the new minister, the Koolmeekor, a Koolmeekor, so that people in the workplace know how much more the boss earns. Then that's clear, because everyone wants to know how much one earns more than the other. The gini coefficient is very abstract. Let us be transparent, honest and open, including in business. Let us systematically monitor this. I'd like a response from the Minister. I am considering the text already ready to table a motion on the Koolmeeikor. Excessive self-enrichment is bad for the support for wage moderation among workers. It causes labour unrest and perverse incentives aimed at short-term profit maximization. Above all, it is unfair and undermines social cohesion. They're top managers taking advantage of their position of power. Recently, the weather has been TomTom, Philips and Arcadis where top executives took a hold in the greenhouse of their own company. It is important that there is a counterpower against the power of the managers. Workers, represented in or, among other things, can play an important role in this. I also checked with the government. Last month I tabled an initiative proposal to submit and implement WNT3. I am counting on broad support from the Chamber for this. In the written preparation, a new word could be read: shabbyness. The government means that members of the or should not be too reluctant to discuss certain issues, such as pay at the top. However, the government maintains that there is still a hierarchical relationship between the board and the board. That hierarchy is in the way of a free debate. This could be solved by making people from outside the company eligible for the works council. These include trade union directors from the well-known trade unions FNV, CNV and MHP. For this purpose, Article 6 of the WOR should be amended. It can act independently only if its members are also independent of the company. I'd like a response from the Minister. In the TV-program What Do You Earn from BNNVARA last Monday, 2 million euros were mentioned as maximum top salary. The FNV once proposed a maximum salary of twenty times the lowest salary in the company. What does the Minister think of these standards? It's already happening in Norway. The inspection SZW will receive an additional 15 million euros for the enforcement and enforcement of laws and regulations. What part of this goes to the enforcement of the WOR? I'd like a response. How exactly is the consultation obligation going to be maintained? How many minutes of speaking time is an actual discussion and who is going to measure this speaking time with a stopwatch? How exactly is the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate going to maintain this? In 2009, a legislative proposal was adopted that gave the right to speak in the shareholders' meeting. How often is this right of speech used in practice? Is the opinion of the shareholders sufficiently taken into account in the decision-making of the shareholders' meeting? How does the Minister feel about giving the right to vote at the shareholders' meeting, particularly in the case of important decisions such as remuneration, the company's strategy and large investments? I would like to give an example of the fact that 20% of the votes in the shareholders' meeting are cast on these subjects. In 2004, the Structural Adjustment Act was adopted. On the basis of that law, the or may in future appoint a maximum of one third of the members of the Supervisory Board in certain large companies. How's this going in practice? Is the right of designation given often used for the or? Is there sufficient feedback from the worker commissioner to the workers and to the or? When will the present legislative proposal be evaluated? I have tabled an amendment on this point to evaluate within three years, precisely because it is not certain how this bill is going to work out in practice and whether it is really going to work. Finally, can the right to speak of the shareholders' meeting and the worker commissioner also be taken into account in the evaluation of this law? These issues are all interrelated. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr Öztürk, for your contribution. We're gonna suspend until 12:20. Then we will continue with the Minister's first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u94	The next item is the first deadline for the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. There's gonna be some more members coming into the room. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Members of this Chamber for the first-term questions. I am pleased that the Chamber has invited me to speak today about this change of law, which, as Mr Van Weyenberg and other speakers rightly said, has been tabled by the previous cabinet. An "inheritance law" called Mr Van Weyenberg this. I would therefore like to thank my predecessor for the preparation of this bill. First of all, I would like to comment on the background to the legislative proposal and also answer a number of questions raised by the Chamber. Then I'll come to the design. I am aware of the fact that a lot of questions have already been asked, because there is a comprehensive note following the report from November 2016. So this law has been there for a while, at least the preparation has been there for a while. I hope to remove any ambiguity today. Finally, I will deal with the amendments tabled by the Chamber. That's what I think it's supposed to be? I see the chairman nodding yes. Okay. Why this bill? The previous cabinet has submitted this to the Chamber; this cabinet has taken over and I will make it clear why. The starting point in pay issues is that the cabinet is not about the level of remuneration of directors of private companies. I would also like to make this point here at the beginning, because it also clarifies the position of the cabinet. We are not talking about remuneration in private companies, so it is also very complicated to enter. This is also reflected in the debate on legislation in this area. But that's not the end of it. Several of your MPs have asked what is the role of the legislator and of the parliament in this discussion. In addition to legislation, of course, you also have a normative debate, which is being held extensively in Parliament on this important issue. As far as I am concerned, there is always social unrest about the fact that the pay relationship is so far apart. This means that the parliament and the cabinet also have a responsibility to participate in this discussion. They need to engage in discussions with, for example, employers' and employees' organisations and to draw attention to them. So it doesn't end with legislation. There is indeed also a normative component and a debate that Parliament and Cabinet should have with employers and employees in order to keep this important issue on the agenda. The cabinet therefore also has an eye for the social uproar that regularly arises in the coverage of this issue. I can see that in this room too. From the SP to the VVD, the eyebrows go up. The displeasure about this is widely shared, and that seems to me right. Parliamentary questions on this subject are regularly asked. On a regular basis, the answer to this is, after all, a matter of principle: remuneration is about private companies and not the legislator. But that also indicates that this is a wide-ranging living place in this Chamber. There are also the roots of this proposal and, as far as possible, the cabinet wants to do something with it. People are indeed the capital of companies and we think it is extremely important that these people also have a role in the company where they work. The cabinet is therefore not about the level of remuneration of directors of private companies. However, we want to encourage companies to be aware of their social position. Mr Van Kent made a comment on this, Mr Wiersma, Mr Heerma. I agree. I believe that there is also the added value of this legislative proposal: that the position of the works council, of the workers in the workplace is indeed strengthened. Also so that companies look around, at Dutch society, and also at the responsibility they have as companies in society. I hope and expect that the Chamber will agree with this approach, because this bill is built on it as it were. We want to raise awareness in the workplace of companies. Let me also be honest: it is a modest step, but it is a step in the right direction. Then I come to the design of the proposal. How can we best promote that conversation in the workplace? I understand a great deal of the questions asked by the various Members of Parliament. Isn't this counterproductive? Isn't there also a discussion that you, as a works council, as it were, agree to? Isn't that vulnerable, too? I understand that this discussion is taking place, and I also understand the arguments of, for example, the Council of State in this legislative proposal: beware! At the same time, I think that in 2006 Mr Harrewijn started this process, and the importance in this Chamber was felt that it is a good thing that the works council conducts the discussion with the board of directors on the remuneration relationships in the company. However, we also note that the figures are indeed from 2012, as Mr Heerma rightly pointed out, but only in 20% of the cases. That does not in itself mean anything, because it may also be that many works councils are fine and do not want to talk about it. However, the feeling is that this conversation is not enough in the workplace and therefore this bill, to give an extra boost to the works council in order to have this social debate on the workplace as well. That is why we agree with the existing legislation, the Works Councils Act, which indeed already contains an information obligation to share the remuneration with the Works Council in the broad sense, so that the conversation is held at the right level. The point is indeed that the information is not always actually discussed during the consultation. There could be a lot of different reasons for that. To be honest, we don't know the answer to why that happens. The latest study is from 2012. That is also not an investigation by the Ministry of SZW but by a private club, the NMO. No more recent information is available. I wish there was, but there isn't. That is why it is still difficult to answer all the questions raised by the Chamber. The idea is, of course, that by explicitly including it in the law, as Mr De Jong also stated in his first term and also in the interruption towards Mr Wiersma, you are indeed giving the support to actually talk about it at company level and to arrange it in the consultation between the employer and the or. The or doesn't have to ask for it anymore. I think that is also an added value of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u96	The Minister himself indicated: there is not very much information about it. The latest information we have is from 2012. That wasn't an investigation of SZW itself either. Perhaps the Minister will see an opportunity to map that out after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u97	That's a fair point. I will come to that in a moment when the amendments are being discussed, because a number of questions have been asked about them and Mr Öztürk has also announced an amendment on evaluation and information. So I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u99	The main change in this legislative proposal is therefore that, in addition to written accountability about remuneration relationships, the employer will also be accountable orally for the remuneration relationships and the development of those remuneration relationships within the company. I understand very well during the first period that there are very different views in this Chamber on this bill, with different arguments, but I do see the widespread displeasure, the raised eyebrows about this development. Is this proposal going to solve all the problems of pay-sharing? No. Let us also be honest: that is not realistic. I certainly don't want to awaken that expectation either. I don't think it would be good to raise that expectation. That is also not to be resolved by legislation.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that Mr Wiersma has made a number of sensible comments on this, but I do believe that this legislative proposal can give that support to the or to talk about this in the workplace. So that really depends on how the works councils and employers talk about this in practice, at a decentralised level. I am just looking soberly at what we can do, and that is to promote the discussion, the social debate in the workplace, alongside the debate that is being held in Parliament, with the cabinet and with employers and employees. That also means it needs time. That is also what my predecessor, Mr Asscher, said in his note on the report. This is not going to change overnight. It takes time to descend into the workplace. Next year it won't suddenly be very different. I would also like to correct that expectation. I have a number of specific questions from the first term of the spokesmen. The last point in the general document is indeed about why this bill does not go beyond, for example, the discussion. Why are we talking about consent or advisory rights? I believe that Mr Asscher wrote sensible words about this in the paper on the report in 2016. He says in that: the reward is the primary responsibility of the shareholders. The works council does not have that right of assent, because it concerns the shareholders, the board of directors and the supervisory board. Only: by having this conversation with the works council you make it part of the normal conversations in the workplace. I think that's really a distinction that we need to make here and not confuse with each other, because before you know it, you're gonna have a discussion about whose responsibility this is. Mr Van Kent asked the specific question whether top salaries could be brought under the collective agreement. Yes, we can, but that is what happens in the debate between employers' and employees' organisations at the level of collective bargaining. I also know that this happens in practice. There is a debate in a number of sectors and companies on whether, as it were, we should include drivers in the collective wage scales. That really is the responsibility of the social partners and not of the government. But I also notice in practice that this debate is also taking place in the workplace. And I think that's excellent. Mr Van Weyenberg and, as a result, Mr Heerma asked why the discussion on top wages is so limited, namely in only 20% of the cases. He asked if there were any new numbers. I just tipped off that the last survey of the MNO was in 2012. There is no newer data. It's also an external investigation. What is available are standard compliance tests. The last verification of compliance by the works council is from my predecessor, from October, just before my swearing-in. In the context of this debate, I will send that back to your Chamber to bring it to the attention of the House. Once every four or five years, what happens to compliance with the works council at the workplace is monitored. It is important to say that this is actually of a kind of private law nature. Mr Öztürk asked a question about the inspection of SZW. Works councils have the opportunity to go to court. The Inspection SZW has no role in this. This means that the works council must also dare to do so. In practice, this also has to do with hierarchical relationships. But the Inspectie SZW has no role here, because the works council itself has legal provisions to go to the canton court and enforce matters. That's not on the inspection SZW, not on the public law side. But I will send that new compliance survey from October 2017 to your Chamber, so that you have a final picture of it. The general picture is that compliance with the or is fairly constant over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u100	I am going to ask a question about this, following Mr De Jong's question just now, in response to which the Minister indicated that he would return to it when he examined Mr Öztürk's amendment. Since it is related to this, I would ask him to come back to that now. There is development, we are going to get that report, but in the context of the discussion on the amendment I expect the Minister to also intend to continue to monitor my interpretation of the cliffhanger he has just used and to do something with it to see what the effect is. Because awareness is used as such an important argument in the explanatory statement, and because I believe that there are better means for this change of course than a legislative proposal, I would like to hear what the Minister sees for the coming years, regardless of the discussion of Mr Öztürk's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u101	It is right to point out that I wanted to hang out in this debate as a sort of cliffhanger, so that attention was guaranteed. In the next compliance study, I intend to ask a number of specific questions on this point, and therefore take it with me. As has been said, the investigation has just been completed, so that we now have to wait a number of years. That gives us time to assess the consequences if this bill is passed by your Chamber. This means that compliance and the impact of the bill will also be taken into account in the next compliance survey, which usually takes place once every four years. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked a question about the regulation of the right to speak for e.g. and not just for nvs. Honestly, I think that is a complicated question to answer at the moment. My first feeling and also the official advice is as follows. Many e.g. companies are much smaller. As a result, the board or the director is much closer to the employee and to the works council, where that conversation is held. In the case of the N.V.'s, the shareholders are more remote. As a result, it is also necessary, I shall say, to anchor this right in the legislation. That is why this bill is also aimed at companies with more than 100 employees and not at small companies. So I understand the point, but frankly I am afraid to say now whether or not we are going to do so. We're really gonna have to take a closer look at that. Mr Van Dijk has announced a motion. I haven't seen it yet, so I'll wait and I'll get back to that in a second term. Finally, Mr Öztürk asked me about the Koolmee coefficient. That seems to me to be a very bad idea. I would like to thank Mr Öztürk for the implicit compliment, at least that is how I interpret it, with my good mood. The serious answer is: there is also a debate at European level on making remuneration relationships within companies transparent. It would also be a bit pretentious to think that it could become a colossal coefficient, because that discussion is being held at European level in the annual legislative debate, which is also the responsibility of my colleague for Justice and Security. This debate is therefore taking place. The state of play is that this is discussed in the Council working groups. That debate has been going on for a long time, I say. He'll be back in this Chamber soon, but through the Justice Committee. To invest that as a carbon coefficient, I find a little too much honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr Öztürk still has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u103	I thought: D66 is progressive and stands for transparency and openness, with a new minister. Let's be honest: people in the workplace want to know "what does my colleague earn and what does my boss earn more than I do?'. That is the central question for everyone. We can wait for Europe or for Security, but what I ask is not so difficult. This transparency must be given to the people. The moment we give it, there is also a discussion in the company. Then the works council can take on the top executives with more guts. Believe me: the moment we give that data to everyone in a proper way, fewer top drivers dare to raise millions of salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u104	First of all, I stand here on behalf of the Crown. Secondly, the annual report has an enormous number of international components. The social debate is often about multinationals, which are by definition active in several countries. I do not think it is a sensible way to conduct this discussion only in the Netherlands and to lay down annual legislation in the Netherlands. We really need to do this via the European route, through my colleague from JenV, who is already conducting that debate. Indeed, it is about improving transparency in pay relations within companies. That is a good development. Apart from that, we already have, of course, in the current legislation, the fact that the or gets information about the remuneration relationships within companies and about their development. So there is transparency. I therefore believe that we agree on the objective, but that we should have the right level of discussion. In fact, this is only at European level when it comes to annual legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u105	For a lot of people that is very abstract, very far away and takes too long. A lot of people just want to know simple and easy: what does my boss earn more than I do? Simple and easy! That also gives a lot of people courage. That also gives a lot of people the urge to support the works council to fight that fight. I also think that if you compare this with the gini coefficient, it is clearer, more efficient and more transparent. I would like to say to the Minister: consider it again. I am going to table a motion and ask the Chamber to give the Minister the honour of taking the lead in this matter in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thank you for the honour, but I think I have clearly argued why I do not think that this is a sensible development and that I would like to join with European development. I share the call for greater transparency and I think it is right. I also note that this call is wider in Europe and that this debate must be held there. It would be too pretentious for me to hang a carbon coefficient on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u107	The Minister is following his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u108	These were the answers to the why, the background to the proposal and to a few specific questions. I would now like to assess the amendments that have been tabled. The SP amendment to point No. 12 I would advise against. I just indicated why I think so. The paper on the 2016 report also addressed the issue of the right of assent. In the end, that is what the shareholder is about and not the works council. There is a line of principle that we must hold on to. For this reason, I would also advise against the amendment tabled by GroenLinks and the Labour Party on the same point. This is also in line with the reply given by Minister Asscher in 2016. If you add the right of assent, you will have a completely different discussion and you will also mix the roles. I do not think that is wise in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u109	Is that the amendment in part No. 15?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yeah, excuse me. So the amendments to documents Nos. 12 and 15 are about the right of consent. They've just been formulated differently, but the core is the same. I'd like to dissuade both of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u111	You're betraying both of them. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u112	The SP amendment to point No. 13, I also advise against. That even goes a step further. It's about the advisory right. One variant is there. But the same fundamental objection actually applies here. It sounds nice, but in principle the remuneration of directors at the shareholders' meeting and also at the supervisory board, which controls the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u113	I don't quite understand. This Minister proposes to make an annual interview mandatory or at least to give the works council the right to do so. But with regard to an amendment by the SP which goes only a very small step further, namely giving the works council the right to give advice, the Minister sees objections in principle. If the Minister had said "well, I don't think that's such a good idea, because it's just a little too far"... No, the Minister says: objections of principle. I am very curious to know what these fundamental objections are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr Van Kent says that it is a very small step, but I do not agree with him. You're really getting a different role from the works council. It is no longer a question of discussing pay relations with the management board and the supervisory board in the workplace, but rather of giving an opinion on this matter, regardless of whether it is a non-binding opinion or not. The basic argument that I also used in the first amendment is that ultimately the shareholders are about remuneration. The Supervisory Board shall review the Management Board. But if you're going to give another role to the or, you're also going to put the or in a difficult situation. I don't think this is wise. I therefore consider this to be a fundamental argument, and I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u115	You asked a very clear question, Mr. Van Kent. I do not think it is right for us now to discuss all the amendments again, because the amendments are on subjects that we have already discussed in the debate. You may now be able to ask a more specific question, but you will not get out of it with each other. In my view, the Minister continues to discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u116	The odds of giving me another advice are indeed small.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u117	Very briefly, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u118	I don't understand it so well. The Minister is outraged. Having a little conversation is a good idea for the Minister, but he sees fundamental objections when it comes to letting the works council give an opinion. So once again, where is the principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u119	The Minister has already replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u120	I've tried three times to make this distinction. I do not think that the wording 'a little discussion' does justice to this bill, nor to the substance, namely that the works council at company level is talking about pay relations. I assume that Mr Van Kent agrees with that. I can't imagine the SP being against it. But the amendments are both going the other way. It gives the works council a more important role in the form of an opinion or an agreement with those remunerations. I therefore think that is the wrong route in principle, because the remuneration is the responsibility of the shareholders and, as a consequence, the supervisory board and the supervisory board. I wouldn't want to cross that bridge. I therefore maintain my advice and advise against the motion. With D66's amendment to part No. 9 The aim is to ensure that the mandatory discussion on the development of remuneration relationships takes place in a discussion on the basis of Article 24 of the Works Councils Act. That is to say, not at a normal consultation meeting, but at a consultation meeting on the general course of business within the company. A member of the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board must be present. I understand the principle of the argument that those responsible for the remuneration decision should be the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board at the meeting. I think it is also in line with the spirit of the legislative amendment. I therefore propose that the amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u121	Is there any objection to accepting this amendment? I see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u122	Thank you. With D66's amendment to part No. The aim is to ensure that the discussion and distribution of information on the development of remuneration relationships in the undertaking cannot be conducted under confidentiality. This means that the employer cannot invoke the confidentiality of Article 20 of the WOR. On the one hand, I do not think that it is too easy to impose confidentiality on the entrepreneur, the employer, for the aggregated data on the development of remuneration relationships, because that is what the conversation should be about. It is therefore not about individual rewards, but about aggregated data. On the other hand, secrecy can sometimes help to exchange information with or to get into conversation about something that is a sensitive issue at its core, namely rewards. It depends on the specific circumstances of a company. I know that the works councils sometimes complain about secrecy, but I do not know whether it is often imposed too easily in this case. That is also an honest answer to your Chamber, because we do not know that. I would therefore prefer to wait and see what happens. Mr Heerma asked how we will monitor this in the next compliance study. I think it would be better to take this point into account and to ask a question about it in the compliance study rather than to accept this amendment now or to give a positive opinion on it now. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u123	The amendment in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u124	Then I have one amendment, which actually brings it all together. That is the amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Öztürk of Denk. The aim is to carry out a review of this legislative amendment three years after its introduction. I have argued that we are now taking a step in the right direction. So the world hasn't changed in three years. We should also give that time, but I think it is very good to monitor developments. I would therefore like to add a question on this subject to the next compliance study and to monitor development. But I wouldn't want to limit it to just this law. I would like to place this in a broader context, because more questions have been asked today about what will happen in practice within the works council. So I'm not in favour of an isolated evaluation. But I do share the port of the amendment, so I would like to include it in the compliance study. I would therefore advise against the amendment, but I would like to tell the House that I am taking this into account in the following investigations into compliance with the WOR. I hope that Mr Öztürk can be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Öztürk, I see you walking forward. Are you going to ask the Minister another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. Can I add two more arguments, or actually one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mr Öztürk first asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u128	On my way to the Interrupt Microphone, I took some advice from the D66 Group. I think we should record it somewhere, too, Minister. Politics changes. Ministers come and go and change intentions. The moment you put that into an amendment, it has to be implemented, no matter who comes. I hear in the Chamber that there are a lot of questions and that we think that a number of things should change over time. That may also be the time for the Chamber to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u129	I understand Mr Öztürk's question. I think a commitment from me to your Chamber is an important gesture. That is also recorded in the Acts. This can be taken back, and officials carrying out the compliance investigation take note of it. Once again, my argument to discourage the amendment is not so much that I disagree with it. In fact, I would like to consider it broader than just this legislative amendment because it concerns more developments of the or in practice. So it is actually a gesture towards Mr Öztürk. I hope he appreciates that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u130	Finally, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u131	I'll "next" about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u132	I appreciate that. This brings me to the end of my response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Minister. I'm looking around. Is there a need for a second term? Mr. Van Kent wants to file another motion. Are there any more members? Yes, I see Mr Van Dijk among others. We shall now proceed with the second term of office. First, I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am disappointed by the Minister's answers on the participation and control of the works councils when it comes to corporate takeovers and everything that has to do with them. I hope that the Minister will go into that in the second term, because the works council really needs to have much more power over those who own the capital. Mr. Chairman. I also see that the indignation about the top rewards is widely shared, but that few proposals are then made by other parties, especially the government parties, to give the works council control over them. That is why we have tabled two amendments. I really do not understand why the Minister sees a problem in that small step on top of that little conversation that is taking place now and is actually very little to nothing. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions to give the government a chance to come up with a firmer law instead of the law that is now in place. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the works council has no control over the remuneration of the top of the company;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the bill by letter of amendment in order to give works councils more control over the remuneration of the top within their company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34494-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u135	Mr. Chairman. Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the works council does not have sufficient control over mergers and acquisitions of their companies;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the bill by letter of amendment in order to give works councils greater control in mergers and acquisitions of their companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34494-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you. Mr. Van Weyenberg from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions about this inheritance law, or perhaps this inheritance law. However, it is something fundamental, because I really think that conversation is very important. Parties that would have liked to have changed something even bigger, I understand, but I think that conversation is important. That discussion and the fact that this information is made available to the works council, I find important parts of the current Works Council Act. The spirit of that is now being explicated a little bit. All things considered, I am going to give my group a positive opinion on this. I would like to thank the Minister for accepting my amendment to ensure that another type of meeting cannot be used in which the Supervisory Board is not present, because that would be undesirable to me. Mr Özdil, who is no longer here, interpreted the amendment in such a way that it should not be in one of the other two meetings that already exist. Above all, I would like to avoid it happening in a third meeting, without the supervisory board. Whatever moment one finds in the company the best time for that, I like to leave it to the people in the company, as long as it happens. The other amendment was dissuaded. I understood the Minister in such a way that he actually says that he does not yet have a broad view that this secrecy is now a problem and that he is afraid that information might come under pressure if you put it as generic as in the amendment. I'm gonna go chew on this. In any case, I would ask the Minister to include in this new compliance investigation, which I believe is more important for the position of the works council................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am going to think about the amendment. I'm never so fond of filing things that might as well be secured in another way. I entered this Chamber thinking that Mr Öztürk's amendment is a good idea. I actually heard the Minister say that this law or this law is only a very small part of the debate, that the debate is wider than just about the WOR and that he would actually like to evaluate much wider. That is what the compliance study is actually a much better means than an adjustment that is purely about the one article that is now being amended. I say to Mr Öztürk, who, of course, is entirely concerned with this, that I am actually convinced by that argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for the answers. It is indeed a very small law, but it is about strengthening the position of employees in companies, and that is essential for us. We have made proposals to strengthen that. Unfortunately, this does not lead to a positive opinion of the Minister, but I think it is good for our Chamber to continue to hold the debate on the employees and the position of the works council. In this light, this law is a reinforcement and we will certainly support the law, but as far as we are concerned, the position of the works council still requires a broader debate. We did get that together in the debate today. To be continued, I'd say. As announced, I have a motion on the right to speak. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that employees, through the works council, want to be sure of a decent remuneration policy among the directors of their organisation;]] [[noting that the remuneration policy of NSAs and e.g. is determined by the general meeting of shareholders and by foundations through the Supervisory Board;]] [[noting that a works council already has the right to speak on remuneration policy at a general meeting of shareholders of NSAs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the ways in which works councils can also be given the right to speak by e.g. foundations and foundations on remuneration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34494-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u141	I actually heard the Minister make the offer to look at this, but also with some reservations. Do I understand correctly that the thrust of this motion is no longer to see whether this is a good idea, but how it should be done? Did I get that correctly? I could have imagined that Mr Gijs van Dijk had tabled a motion for an investigation, but I think it would be a different matter if the outcome of that investigation had already been established. I have that impression a little bit of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u142	Do you mind if I take a look at the literal text? Oh, the motion's already gone. It is a question of examining how works councils can speak with e.g. and with foundations. That is the specific question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you. Mr Wiersma does not need to speak in the second term. Neither does Mr. Heerma. Mr Özdil is going to a general discussion on education. Mr De Jong also has no need to speak. Finally, we will go to Mr Öztürk, who is in his hand with a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for his comprehensive answer, but also for his commitment to evaluate our amendment in three years' time, namely that he is extending it and that he is pointing it towards his officials: tie it well in your policy meetings. As a result of this commitment, I would like to withdraw the amendment. We can work with this commitment in the coming years. We didn't get out of the story about the Koolmeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u145	Do you have a minute? Does anyone object to withdrawing Amendment No 14 by Mr Öztürk? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u146	Then there's the discussion about the Koolmeek. I wanted to give all the credit to the Minister, but he doesn't want to, he's modest. I think that the Chamber can make a statement so that it can tell its European colleagues and ministers: the Chamber has asked me for a Koolmee coefficient. Then that modesty has been fulfilled. Let me read the motion and put it to the vote on Tuesday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the gini coefficient for income inequality is abstract for most people;]] [[Whereas the difference in pay between the top and the workplace reflects much more clearly how income inequality develops;]] [[calls on the Minister to develop, monitor and report annually to the Chamber on income inequality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34494-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u147	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u148	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Court for the questions and comments in the second term. Four motions have been tabled and there are still a few subjects. I'll walk them down in the order of the speakers. Mr Van Kent has repeated that he does not see the distinction between the small conversation, as he puts it, and the right of opinion or consent. I am not going to repeat the argument, but I think there is really a big difference between the conversation or a right of advice and consent. As a result, Mr Van Kent has tabled two motions. First of all, I would like to make a state-law argument, because both motions are actually a request to me to amend the legislative proposal by means of a letter of amendment. This should have been done in the form of an amendment from the Chamber, so that we could have had a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u149	We have tabled two amendments. The Minister gave his opinion on this. These motions are perfectly possible, in the sense that they do not exactly fill in the way in which the government should shape them. It invites the government to issue a letter of amendment to introduce a tightening-up of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u150	I think this is very creatively made up by Mr Van Kent, but I did not recommend both amendments. Mr Van Kent invites me to be so creative as to realize those amendments, and that feels a little strange to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u151	You want to interrupt again, Mr. Van Kent, but I think this has been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u152	Apart from that, there is also a substantive argument. In the opinion of the Cabinet, works councils have sufficient rights in the case of takeovers. If there is a transfer of control of a part of the undertaking or of the entire undertaking, the works council already has a right of advice. That is precisely the point Mr Van Kent has asked for in this legislative proposal. In addition, the works council must be given all the information it needs to deliver that advice. Furthermore, this advice must be requested in good time so that it can still influence the decision-making process of the entrepreneur. So I would also like the two motions tabled by Mr Van Kent, on items Nos. 16 and 17, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u153	I would like to correct two things, Mr President. First of all, in this legislative proposal, we ask for the right of assent, and secondly, for the right of advice in case the right of consent fails. I'm gonna need that cleaned up. Furthermore, we do not ask for an advisory right in the case of corporate takeovers. I'm aware that it already exists. In doing so, we are asking for control in the form of right of consent. Let's keep it clean for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u154	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you. Does this clarification change the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u156	No, Mr President, but it is right that Mr Van Kent made this point. I was a little short, but the judgment remains the same. In the opinion of the cabinet, the works council already has sufficient rights in the case of takeovers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u157	The motion in part No. 16 by Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Gijs van Dijk, and the motion in part No. 17 members of Van Kent, Özdil and Gijs van Dijk are also discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u158	Yeah, the last one's being dissuaded, too. The motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk and others in piece No. 18 on the right to speak of works councils, I find a sympathetic motion. It's just, I think the wording is a little too administrative. If Mr Van Dijk, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Kent were to amend the operative part so that the first part of it reads "the government is asking to examine whether and, if so, how' I am more sympathetic to it. Because then we can just look at whether this is a problem in practice. Now it says 'in what way', and that is what my reservations about Mr Van Dijk have been expressed in the first term: is it a problem and are we not going to create unnecessary problems when it comes to implementation in practice? If the first part of the operative part can therefore be changed to "requests the government to examine whether and, if so, in what way," then I could give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u159	Does Mr Gijs van Dijk intend to amend his operative part in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u160	I'll adjust the motion in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u161	The motion-Gijs van Dijk c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that employees, through the works council, want to be sure of a decent remuneration policy among the directors of their organisation;]] [[noting that the remuneration policy of NSAs and e.g. is determined by the general meeting of shareholders and by foundations through the Supervisory Board;]] [[noting that a works council already has the right to speak on remuneration policy at a general meeting of shareholders of NSAs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and, if so, in whatever way works councils can also be given the right to speak by e.g. foundations and foundations on remuneration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 18 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I will go to my colleague from JenV in the cabinet, who is, of course, ultimately responsible for this, so that we can examine whether this should be designed and, if it is a problem, in what way. I'll get back to the Chamber on that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 19 by Mr Öztürk on the Koolmeekor. As I said in the first term, I do not think that is a sensible idea. I have just looked at what exactly is happening in Europe on that point. I understand that a draft proposal will be submitted in consultation in the first quarter of 2018, so the discussion is advanced. That's an argument. So the discussion is already going on. It is also the responsibility of the Minister for Justice and Security. This discussion is also taking place within the relevant committee. I would therefore not like to mix that discussion with this debate. I therefore refer to the Committee on Justice and Security. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u163	The motion in part No. 19 of the member Öztürk is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u164	I think I've answered all the questions with this. Then I thank you, Mr President, for handling this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u165	I would like to thank the Minister for his second reply and thank the Members for their contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u166	The legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions will be voted on next Tuesday. We are now going to suspend until 1.40 p.m. and then the afternoon meeting starts with the farewell of Mr Roemer. Afterwards, the VAO Shipping takes place, which will probably be a little bit later than is indicated on the schedule.
