ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the first term of office of the Government for the examination of the Kingdom Relations budget, Section 35000-IV. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome Mr Somersall, the Minister with responsibility for Saint Martin, Mrs Wuite, and the Deputy Minister with responsibility for Saint Martin, as well as Mrs Christel Larmonie, the Director of the Cabinet. They are here for the second time in the President's Lodge. Welcome. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to say that many questions have also been answered in writing. These answers are also in the possession of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	That's correct, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. October 10 is a very special date, because that is the date of the new political relations. 10-10-10 is a term. But I learned today that 10 October is also the President's birthday, and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President warmly on her birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. About a year ago, I was allowed to stand here for the first time as Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to defend the Kingdom Relations budget. It was a budget that was also created by, among other things, my predecessor, Mr Plasterk. But now my own budget is ahead, and I can tell you that last year was a year in which I have experienced a lot of things and had a very steep learning curve, but in which I have become even more fascinated by the ties we have within the Kingdom. Those are tires that actually always run through people. In the large number of work visits I have made to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, I have always experienced that this connection is deeply experienced. I experienced this here in the debate in the Lower House yesterday, in the input of the various spokesmen, but I also noticed that during my visits. In the end, I think we should nurture that. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are sometimes differences of opinion. We'll talk about that today. But it is very important that we maintain that band in a good way. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the former chairman of the Committee on Kingdom Relations, Alexander Pechtold, for his involvement, not only in the past year as chairman, but also in previous posts in which he has maintained close ties with the Kingdom. I have also personally noticed over the past year that he was very closely involved, and I would like to thank him from this place for his commitment to that position as chairman of the committee. Mr. Chairman. The past year is a year in which much has happened. Think of the emergency aid granted to the Windward Islands after the terrible hurricanes Irma and Maria. 55 million has been made available to meet the first needs, to help those who were devastated, who had lost house and fireplace and who depended on outside help. Finally, in November last year, the cabinet made available EUR 550 million for Saint Martin and EUR 67 million for Saba and Saint Eustatius. From December last year to April this year we started the so-called early recovery phase, the first phase of reconstruction, where the emphasis was on doing the things that are of great importance immediately after the emergency phase: repairing homes of the most vulnerable people, distributing school meals for children who were in trouble, social-emotional assistance, a whole palette of elements. In the end, we will then be in the phase of the process, where we will now be in the process of dealing with the long-term reconstruction, together with the World Bank and St Maarten. I'll say something about that in a minute. It was also the year in which the Cabinet, with the unanimous support of both Chambers, was forced to submit the Temporary Law on Mission Neglect Saint Eustatius, a law with great consequences but also a law necessary to resolve the task neglect that had taken place. We now see the first tangible results on the island of Sint-Eustatius and we continue steadily. In addition, the government, also on the basis of the government agreement, has made 30 million available for the BES Islands' regional envelope, which will enable socio-economic projects to be set up to address current bottlenecks in these islands. Finally, the Cabinet presented a package of measures to improve the security of life of the most vulnerable people, including by increasing the level of support and child benefit. A whole package of ambitions for which I have experienced a lot of support from this Chamber over the past year. But that doesn't get us there yet. Many Members, Mr Van Raak the most striking, said yesterday that it is sometimes a very uncomfortable situation. We all really want the same thing. That's what I experience, even when I'm in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. But sometimes we are in two worlds: the Hague world and the Caribbean world. It is not necessarily the case that we are based on different principles, but sometimes that clashes. I think it is up to all of us at all these times to denounce the things that are not going well, but at the same time to always have the ambition to do better together. That is also my personal motivation; I said that last year. I want the people on the islands to get better. And that can only be done with the united commitment of everyone. That is why the cabinet also opts for customization and effect. That means quite simply: not all islands are equal, not all challenges are the same, so we need to help them forward in ways that appeal to them most. There's that will. Sometimes that goes very well, sometimes there is still some things to do. The adage I use is "more for more, less for less." Quite simply: if things go well, the islands will be rewarded; if things don't go well, we will help the islands to do better. There are a lot of differences, including in performance, in how this is done, when it comes to financial management or good governance. That is why I believe that we would be failing the islands if we treated them in the same way in all their diversity, background and culture. But equal, not equal. And it takes two to tango, I always say, so from both sides there must be that bet. If there isn't, we'll have to say the same thing. Mr. Chairman. I understand from my past that you're always attached to cubes. Then you know where you are on the schedule. I have distilled seven blocks from the questions put by the Chamber, some of which I have already answered in writing. The first is about the reconstruction of the Windward Islands, the second is about strengthening the coordinating role and the third is about a number of practical measures that we are going to take. The fourth block deals with children's rights, the fifth on the situation in Venezuela and refugees. In the sixth block I deal with a number of separate questions that have been asked. Last but not least, the seventh block deals with relations within the Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. In the reconstruction of Saint Martin there are two souls in my chest. 'Cause I'd like it to go faster, too. When you look at what happened there and see that people are still in situations that are really not good, you tend to help yourself. I did, but it doesn't really make any sense if you do that on your own. You're gonna have to have a good plan for it. The problems and challenges that exist, some because of the hurricane, but some from a long time before, are so big and so complex that quick solutions are not enough. Those two perceptions of what's fast and what's slow, I see everywhere. I try not to defend it, but to objectify it, because I see that both on this side and on the other side a lot of people are hard at work to get it done. But problems that have sometimes arisen in decades, you don't solve in a few months. We've been a year. I understand very well the questions that you have all asked about the pace, the commitment of the World Bank and to what extent it does not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. It must be clear that rapid reconstruction is at the forefront. But it is also clear that the resources we have at our disposal must be properly spent, on the basis of sound plans. I recently saw an aerial photograph of the city centre of Rotterdam, made in 1953, a year in which another disaster struck us. That was 13 years after the big bombing. That downtown was one big bald plain. The repair of the damage in the Caribbean can be compared somewhat with the situation in Rotterdam back then. I think we can do it much faster. However, I would like to point out that if there is so much damage and there are so many problems, not only in the physical infrastructure but also in the way in which public administration functions, for example when it comes to the law enforcement chain or the waste dump, we need to think carefully about how we are going to do it. That is precisely why the cabinet with the World Bank, with the agreement of Saint Martin, started to work on these two conditions, establishing an integrity room and proper border control, and that the first tranche of 112 million was released in April 2018. Four projects have now been approved for a total amount of 90 million and made available from that trust fund. It's about the hurricane-proof new building of the hospital. It concerns payment and training of Saint Martins who lost their jobs in the tourism sector and are looking for a job again. It is about strengthening emergency services and shelters to be able to withstand the enormous forces that are released in the next hurricane seasons. And it's about cleaning up the hurricane waste. That's not easy. The World Bank is an agency that has a proven track record in this area and should be considered able to do this big job in a good way. I'm sure of it. They have knowledge and experience of the aftermath of disasters, especially on so-called small island states. The World Bank, with its own procedures and processes, is also responsible for ensuring efficient use of the Dutch contribution, which is not insignificant and also subject to strict conditions. We do not want us to stand here and be held accountable by the Chamber: what happened to the 550 million? I'd rather not have that debate here either. It remains Dutch tax money, which we have to deal with in an orderly manner. Because we think speed is important, I also called for faster procedures in the negotiations with the World Bank in this new construction. Where necessary, I will continue to do so. It takes some getting used to, also for the World Bank, doing business with the Netherlands as a single donor. I believe that the Chamber is entitled to sound accountability, but it should not be the case that people are being helped too late as a result of bureaucracy. At the end of the year, before the turn of the year, you can expect the World Bank's first progress report. I am as transparent as possible to show what we are doing with the money and also how, from the Steering Committee, the Steering Committee with Sint-Maarten, the Netherlands and the World Bank, we are working together to get the funds where they are needed as soon as possible. Mrs Diertens asked about the access of io's, international organisations, and NGOs to that trust fund, because money is now being disposed of mainly through the World Bank. I have always fought for the role of these organisations, because I think it is important that the organisations there are many of them who have proven that they can do very well and that they can do very good projects can also play a role in this. I would particularly like to mention the St. Maarten Housing Development Foundation, which is now going to tackle 408 damaged social housing. I believe very strongly in partners who have proven that they can do this, so I really want to keep room for those NGOs. I see no need to use direct support for this now, because it is also clear to the World Bank that it is important to include ios and NGOs. I will once again encourage our representative to raise this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	I am very pleased with the transparency offered by the Secretary of State here. That's important. The question I'm going to ask might be a little tricky. Is there any mention, for example, of what is being spent on Saint Martin and what is being done on the inspection of Saint Martin's Court of Auditors? Does he have a role in the review? Or isn't that discussed? Or isn't that the issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	In principle, the integrity room will soon have a role to play to see if things could not have happened. That's some kind of safety valve. The World Bank has its own internal audits. So as long as projects run directly through the World Bank, they will be controlled through that gremium. We are, of course, also doing a marginal review ourselves. The General Court in the Netherlands has now announced that it will look at how these funds are being spent through a focus study. There are sufficient mechanisms for Dutch taxpayers' money to be put away through the World Bank to be spent there. So there is not a direct task for the Court of Auditors of Saint Martin. That is basically through the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	It's good to hear that control is good. I am always very pleased about the accounts, also of Saint Martin's, also of Aruba and also of Curaçao. They're doing some really tough work. Perhaps it is an opportunity to take them along, not so much as a specific responsibility and scrutiny, but also in the context of strengthening local governance. They have to want it themselves, but maybe they could play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	I think it is a very good suggestion from Mr Bosman. I know that the Dutch Court of Auditors maintains very close contact with the accounting offices of the countries and is impressed by the quality that is being delivered there. I believe that it is part of good governance, also in the context of checks and balances, that these accounts are placed in a position not only in this particular project but also in current expenditure. In this respect, I should like to make a wish here. There should be a little more listening, even on the island of Sint-Maarten, to the Court of Auditors. Of course, we have an issue about finances with the various countries, including St.Maarten, of course, as a result of the hurricane, but also in the current budget, where there are quite a few challenges for which, for example, liquidity support has now been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	I am very pleased that you want to continue to work on the cooperation of NGOs and IOs. However, there are a lot of disturbing noises to me about psychosocial aid. During the bridging funding, when the World Bank was not there, we started a number of projects and they will be finished. If the World Bank is not yet aligned and is working hard with these NGOs, I am afraid that there will be a gap and that we will fall back into something we do not want. I would like the Secretary of State to be in charge of that, but I would also like it to be dealt with through the budget or through the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	I fully agree with Mrs Diertens that it is not just about hard reconstruction in the sense of infrastructure. That's what I just said. It is particularly about the soft side, let me just mention it. We hope that because you regulate things on the hard side and because there will be perspective again for the people, that soft side will be less needed. But it is perfectly reasonable to assume that this will continue to be necessary in the future. We have put part of the 550 million into a trust fund at the World Bank and some we have left for direct support. I have just promised to work from the World Bank Steering Committee to ensure that NGOs andio's play a role in these issues. That is already happening, for example, with the people who have lost their jobs. So we already have some skill programs running. If there is a need to do so, it should first of all go through the World Bank. If, for some reason, other priorities are set, but of course we are also sitting at the table ourselves, then we can always see if anything further would be needed from the direct aid. That fund isn't infinite either, so I have to issue a profit warning for that. We have a big budget, but the needs are at least as high. So choices will always have to be made, but you do so together with Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	I hope there won't be a gap. It's a shame that when people are lined up and have experience, that all falls away. Those procurement routes also take a lot of time. I'm a little worried about the timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	It is right that you should take that concern out. I see that as a signal to go further in this area. There's no problem at the moment. If there is, it will come into line and there will always be means to solve this. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	The Secretary of State has just indicated that there is direct aid on the one hand and that funds are reserved for it. On the other hand, he says we transfer money in batches to the World Bank. Is that what the Secretary of State is evaluating? If he thinks there might be more direct aid and less to the World Bank, is he willing to move between those posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	In principle, these posts are fixed. We have put these tranches away from the World Bank as a total. We can determine the size of those tranches. In it, together with St.Maarten, priorities are determined on the basis of the NRRP, the national reconstruction plan, in which these priorities are set. From the direct support fund we can do all kinds of other things, as we have discussed before, for example in the area of law enforcement, everything in relation to the hurricane damage that has been suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	But it is not the case that the Secretary of State thinks that if we are a little further along this path, it would be more convenient to do a little more through direct support and a little less through the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	I think that's too soon. I can't rule out it happening, but I think it's too soon and the reason for that is the following. We have now communicated to the World Bank that this is the maximum budget available for the trust fund. We still have a pot in reserve for smaller cases. One of the things that's going on is technical assistance. This week, I have accepted a number of requests from Saint Martin to simply pay in public administration, in the bureaucracy of the government, a number of specialists who are going to do important work, for example in the area of law enforcement and waste management. This is also financed by direct aid. If I invest all that now with the World Bank, then the room for manoeuvre is to do something about it, because it has to be done with this money. So I cannot rule out the possibility that, at the end, in the future, something will slide in, but that is not the issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I mean that there would be less to the World Bank and more to direct support, and now I hear the Secretary of State actually making the reverse move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	We have committed ourselves with the World Bank to EUR 470 million, so that is in principle. And if we want something else with that, I think we will have to do it in consultation with Saint Martin and the World Bank. But there has been some thought about putting that into these proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	Then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr President. In the introduction, the Secretary of State indicated that he puts the interests of the residents of St.Maarten first and I am pleased that he puts that forward. How does he look back on the past year, in which it has actually lasted for a very long time, and far too long, as far as I am concerned, until the funds became available to the World Bank? How does the Secretary of State judge the fact that many people on Saint Martin also indicate that these budgets are being released too slowly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	I understand that question. You could conclude from that question that we have just begun with the World Bank, but nothing is less true. We started the emergency phase. Then, in December, we started the early recovery to fill that gap to the start of the World Bank projects, with projects with NGOs on St Maarten. Very good things have happened to them. I would like to mention the White Yellow Cross, the renovation of houses, the disposal of waste and Red Cross projects, which I mentioned earlier. So a lot of good things have been done with it. So there has actually been some kind of continuum of help. The point is that if you are going to tackle large-scale and complex projects on a large scale, I'll mention the waste dump and the airport that wasn't much left and that couldn't function anymore, which cannot be done in the short term. It has always been a mix of spending through NGOs, through the government and through the trust fund of the World Bank. The construction we have devised, together with the World Bank and Saint Martin, was not designed in this way before. So we really had to negotiate the conditions, because the World Bank is used to working with multi-donor systems where more countries give money and have less direction. We simply said that together with Saint Martin we really wanted to be able to determine from that steering committee, that steering committee, on the basis of that NRP, that national reconstruction plan for Saint Martin that was established by the States of Saint Martin, what the good things were to do. It just took some time. In addition, as is well known, even with Mr Kuzu, it took too long, too long in my opinion, and I have already said so before St Martin agreed, also politically, in that turbulent political period with the conditions. We could have started earlier, but we've just been able to provide help continuously through different channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	Of course, I can well imagine that reconstruction does not last one year. You're gonna have to take some time off for that. The Secretary of State gave an example of the construction of Rotterdam. Yeah, it's still in full swing and as far as I'm concerned it doesn't have to take that long on Saint Martin. However, there are still concerns about future tranches. We're getting information on the first tranche now. I see that it is on the budget until 2021 or 2023. What is the planning for the future, for the rest of the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	I have just promised that the progress report on the previous period will come before the end of the year. The second instalment is scheduled to be released by the end of this year. This will soon be the subject of a meeting at the steering committee. This is basically about a similar amount to that of the first tranche, because you can't put it all away at once either. It's about big projects. We also do not want to put that money away at once, because absorption capacity is limited. You can't manage it either. When I see what is now the question of the government of Saint Martin about assistance for functions that they do not have or do not have enough in the government apparatus or of insufficient quality to control things, I know one thing for sure: if you put that in one tranche at once, things really go wrong. Then I come to the point of accountability, also to the House of Representatives, because it is Dutch tax money. We need to do this in order. So the run-up is always the hardest part of such a big project. Now a lot of projects are being tendered. For example, research is now being carried out on this waste dump and how it needs to be dealt with. Once that is clear and you know how to do it, then it is also visible that something is going to happen. So something's happening right now, but just to walk around the dump and clean up a little bit and think it's all taken care of... You really need to think about it. It's really complicated. It has rarely been shown that in so many years such a dangerous situation has arisen for public health. There's no sorting. There's no waste system underneath either. So all that still has to be conceived and developed. It must also be able to count on political support on Saint Martin. You can imagine that this has not been achieved overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Diertens asked to what extent the use of the World Bank's funds pays attention to sustainability and the ecological aspect. I have interpreted sustainability in such a way that you also mean financial sustainability. At the moment, the World Bank has already launched analyses of St.Maarten's financial system and the organisation of government, in order to come forward with proposals in the long term that will lead to sustainable and sustainable public finances. If I were to ask Mrs Van de Graaf to translate the environmental aspects more into the environment, then the whole problem of dumping is the elephant in the room as far as I am concerned. First of all, we must recognise that this dump causes dangerous conditions, because it regularly burns and releases all kinds of substances that may be harmful. There are people in the neighborhood. That dump is very high and very steep. So the question is whether this is a sustainable situation. I dare to answer that question by saying that this is not the case and that something must be done. If we can solve this together with St.Maarten and the World Bank, if we can really put a sustainable solution under here with a decent waste policy, waste collection and separation, then we are really doing something good for the long term. So it is being looked at. I mentioned earlier, also to Mrs Van Tongeren's questions last year, that we are looking at whether we are doing the right things for the future. Because once again, quickly fixing something is very easy, but do we also do the good things for the future of the island? We are also very much looking at this in the review. Mrs Van den Berg asked for technical assistance. I have just said something about this. Research has now been carried out at the Tax Administration to see how compliance, how tax collection can be improved, which can increase revenue. A waste expert has been deployed from the Netherlands to see how we can help Sint-Maarten set up these new systems. The requests I have received have been made in the areas of legislation, finance, land-use planning and the maintenance of building permits, because the public authorities have not been given the means to ensure that much is being built or grown either. So you also don't want this phase to be used, or abused, by people who just start building without permits. So you can imagine there's a lot of work to be done. Mrs Van den Berg asked about liquidity support. We have set aside 550 million for reconstruction. It was also decided that any liquidity support would be at the expense of this amount. Since there is in principle an agreement with the World Bank for 470 million, you can conclude that any liquidity support should come from direct aid. If it isn't already a loan, because in the end, of course, so is our goal. It remains to be seen how this is done. We have now given a first tranche of liquidity support in the form of a direct loan to Sint-Maarten. I understand a new request is on its way. We're just gonna look at the financial situation over and over again. The aim of this reconstruction is that, in the end, Saint Martin will be able to generate sufficient revenue, that tourism will start again and that public finances will be rebalanced. Mr Bosman specifically asked about physical complaints in the military as a result of the dumping. Military people are very important, but with Mr Bosman's permission, I would like to broaden this. As far as I am concerned, anyone who lives or works in that area is entitled to a clean environment. The Department of Defense has already ordered preliminary investigations. Defence has looked at the effects and is looking at what possible solutions are available. I myself spoke with the Ministry of VROMI and made the offer to help Saint Martin with good measurements of what is released there. I myself have been on that call, along with a number of officials and also the Minister of VROMI. I wanted to see what that looked like. It didn't cheer me up and after half an hour of walking around there, I also got all kinds of stimuli that I don't normally have. From that I conclude that it's all not as good as what comes out of that phone. I therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance in the context of public health that we know exactly what is happening there. We are currently having discussions with RIVM and TNO to see how they can help us with this. The World Bank warmly welcomes this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	I see that Mr Bosman is ready for an interruption. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. It has made a distinction in different subjects for a reason. He was still working on the first topic, the reconstruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	I have to say, my first block is the biggest. Maybe that's the good news for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	Okay. Mr. Bosman, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	I understand that public health matters to everyone. But with regard to the military, as a Dutch government, we have an employer's responsibility. That is why I would like to name it specifically. We can wait for St. Martin to do something. But we also know that we have been waiting for Saint Martin for a long time in recent years. I believe that we, as the employer of Dutch military personnel, should not wait for what Sint-Maarten is going to do. We have an active role in responsibility, and that is why I call them specific. It is, of course, difficult: I am talking to the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations, and that is not the employer, because that is the Minister or Secretary of State for Defence. I'm sure I'm gonna talk to him about this, too. But in the context of the role of the Dutch government, I believe that we have a responsibility here. That's why I specifically mentioned the military. Does the Secretary of State see that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	I can see that for sure. By the way, I would like to broaden it not only to the military, but also to the people who work there in law enforcement, in the police or in the prosecutor's office, and of course to the people who live there and who have been sent out on behalf of the Netherlands. It's much wider. I understand from the Defense Department that when that dump burns, fortunately, that's not always so much as a smoke development, other places can be offered to people who really suffer from being in the smoke. As you may know, the government building on St.Maarten has also been evacuated several times, because it was in the middle of the wind direction of the dump. That building is next to the dump. I was there once, and I was in there, and you smelled good everywhere. That's what the DOD is looking at. I have that information. But this also applies, of course, to our own people. That is why it is important that we do not stick too many patches. From the point of view of good employership, we must not only look at whether things are not getting out of hand, but we must tackle the cause of this misery. The Trust Fund offers us that opportunity. The first tranche of 25 million gives the opportunity to do so. This allows us to investigate and make plans, and with it we can see how the dump can be contaminated and how the case can be covered, so that those fires are no longer there. Then we can see how a new dump can be built, maybe in another place and maybe together with the French. All these scenarios are being developed, so that this ultimately belongs to the past. I have said it before: it is just a shame that this dump in the middle of the island causes so much nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	I am, of course, very pleased with this answer. I'm going to follow this critically, because this dump has been there for a while and it's been burning for a while. My concern is whether the ambition is actually supported. The Secretary of State says there's a lot of money going back. It's got to end up in the right place. Anyway, so does the Secretary of State. He's working on that, too. So I'm following him very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	We are certainly going to do that, I can still say to Mr Bosman. That is precisely why we are going to monitor the use of funds. Mrs Diertens and Mr Bishop asked questions about the Integrity Chamber and border control. These were two conditions for granting aid. The Integrity Room isn't up and running yet. The quartermasters are now working and they are all preparing it, but the Integrity Room is not yet in function. However, we started with the help, because you also have to say at some point: there are limits to that. We now expect St.Maarten to take the necessary steps to make it possible, on the basis of a country decision, for the Integrity Chamber to actually start. I have been in contact with the Prime Minister of Saint Martin. He promised me they'd do that. I hope that the States and Saint Martin will take that up as well, so that we can get to work on this Integrity Chamber as soon as possible. Mr Bishop wondered whether support for strengthening border control was temporary or permanent. That reinforcement is aimed at temporaryity with a lasting effect. In the end, it's a national task to do it that way. We train people there, we coach, we bring in knowledge, which of course we have a lot, but it is basically meant for the next two years. In the end, border control is supposed to be brought to such a level within those two years that St.Maarten can take over for himself. Mr Bosman has made a point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	On the previous point, Mrs Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	I have a question about border control. We had a wonderful presentation from the general. That all looked really good. One of the bottlenecks was that there are still some problems in the.I hate the word.. chain, the cooperation between the Coast Guard and the people on the islands themselves. Do you have any more insight into how this is solved in cooperation with the island leaders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	In itself, I hear positive noises about the development of border control and cooperation with the authorities in Saint Martin in this area. Another point that is more or less related to this and which Mr Bosman asked for is law enforcement. There's still a lot going on with that. 10-10-10 it has been decided that that is a task of the country, but honesty commands to say I also don't want to talk with flour in the mouth.... that at that point it just doesn't go well, that it really has to be much better. Border control, the succession around people being arrested, the capacity of the police, the training and facilities are partly hurricane related, because buildings have been damaged. But in part there are also structuralally insufficient resources in the budget at St Maarten to maintain that entire law enforcement chain. I raised this point in various consultations with the Minister for Justice of Saint Martin, with the Prime Minister of Saint Martin and with the Council of Ministers, because I really believe that there should be sufficient budget for Saint Martin to set this up properly. We can provide knowledge and skills, but we are now eight years ahead and one cannot without the support from the Netherlands. If you want to be a country within the Kingdom with the tasks assigned to you, you will eventually have to invest more in order to properly equip this important cornerstone of society, of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Then I make a switch to Saint Eustatius and Saba, our BES islands also affected by the hurricane. The islands have a different scale but the damage was no less. There we have another responsibility as a Dutch government, a more direct responsibility. Here too, we are focusing in particular on projects which are supported both by the islands, where they themselves give priority to the reconstruction of the port in Saba, for example, which is also an economical lifeblood for the island of the island, and which has a great impact. Despite the hurricane hit both islands hard and caused a lot of damage, you can see that a lot has happened on both islands thanks to a lot of people. That's why on Saba all people actually have a roof over their heads again because it's fixed. Also on Sint-Eustatius there is still some damage but in principle everyone has a roof over his head. There have been enormous efforts in recent years, including by our people. I thank them for that. We recently had a general discussion about the developments on Saint-Eustatius. I can mention it for a moment: we are about to launch a major infrastructure project, namely the reconstruction of the airport at Sint-Eustatius. I see Mr Van Raak standing and immediately think of Fort Orange, but perhaps that is not the right connection. I mean the cliff there, a pretty big project that can't just be restored. You need to think about how you're gonna do that. That is now on the verge of being tendered on the basis of reports. So a lot of things are happening. That's good to see. Also before that, the image was natural: can't it go faster? I think we really did everything we could to do that as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of shortness, we have talked about this a lot in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	I promised the Secretary of State, if there are practical problems and practical solutions on Saba and Statia, to discuss them with him. The airport in Saba has been closed. That was very annoying, but then a ferry connection was made. One of the major complaints, one of the major problems on the islands is, of course, that the transport is not payable. A flight on a plane up and down can cost just 200 bucks. With that ferry, you were done with two tens. Now it seems that in the period that the airport was closed, much more traffic has been between Saba and Sint-Maarten. Then I wonder as a simple representative of the people here in The Hague: why doesn't such a ferry continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	That's a good question. You say there's been more traffic. I'm gonna have to check that out. I shall come back to that in second place. Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	Many groups have raised the issue of strengthening the coordinating role of BZK. There's a motion, Diertens c.s. adopted. The coalition agreement has said a number of things about this. It's not about the coordinating role, but ultimately it's about the effect you want to achieve. You want to use the resources available on the Dutch budget as effectively as possible. To do so, you need to be able to steer policy-making closely, but in particular implementation. I'm a big deal is a deal, and if you promise something, you're gonna do it. It is also a little my role based on the experiences of recent years that I occasionally push and pull a little and to other towers as Mr Van Raak calls the other departments run. I do so, and so do my officials, to advocate coherence and coordination. Mrs Van der Graaf wondered whether I was satisfied with the role I was playing. I am inclined to answer that: yes. Which I immediately put in a big comma, because it can always be better. I think it should be better, too. But we've already taken some steps. For example, we have set up the senior steering committee Caribbean Netherlands and we have the government representatives' consultation. I know that not everyone in the Chamber is equally enthusiastic about this, but I have been working intensively with my colleague from SZW, for example, in recent months to do something about the fight against poverty. We have presented a package of measures. Soon I will go that way with my colleague from IenW. I would also like to really involve the Dutch colleagues in the cabinet, who, incidentally, I think are extremely cooperative, in the specific, typical matters in the Caribbean parts of the Netherlands. It helps if they see what's really going on there. So I am satisfied, but that should not be understood as satisfied in the sense of: it is good. It's not good at all, it can do much better. It is not for nothing that the cabinet asked the Council of State for information on 13 September to see how you could improve the whole construction that was made on 10-10-10 focused on the Caribbean Netherlands. I assume there are no taboos at the Council of State. A number of specific questions have been asked, and once the answers have been received, the Chamber will of course be informed through the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	Who's first? Mrs. Özütok? Mrs. Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you. That's good to hear. What I notice is that the coordinating role of the BZK department internally, within the cabinet and within the ministries, as the minister has just described, actually finds its place. There are also, of course, challenges. I also notice that this passage, the agreement in the coalition agreement, has a reality out there and creates expectations there. As an example, I would like to mention the children's court, child protection, youth protection, where the VWS Ministry seems to be professionally leading. How should I see the coordinating role of BZK in that regard? The outside world believes that BZK should also play a solid, coordinating role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yeah, I know those expectations. I still have to temper these expectations somewhat, because we have agreed in the Cabinet that, on the basis of these passages in the coalition agreement and the practical solutions that have been devised, an information request will be made to the Council of State. In doing so, we assume that there will be a thorough analysis of how you could improve this. In the meantime, it is quite simple that the departments responsible for certain policy areas and for which the budget and the resources are responsible are themselves responsible. Through the high-level consultation and the steering committee that has been set up, we discuss these matters with each other and they are coordinated. After all, if you explain those ten lines of Mr Van Raak's all about the ocean, you're almost sure there's no coordination. There is therefore a need to coordinate, because one measure affects the other. I find the example of the minimum standard of living interesting, because it sees not only poverty reduction in terms of increases in allowances but also economic developments, i.e. LNV and EZK, energy prices, water prices. We have five departments together that all play a role. If you don't coordinate that, you get a potpourri of things that can potentially work out very negative. We do not want that; we want to use these resources as effectively as possible. No one disagrees about that. So the question is, what is a smart way to do that? Whatever solution is devised, it will always be suboptimal. If you are dealing with different departments, there will always be a certain degree of coordination, or in the connection between BZK and the other departments, or within BZK. We are not going to change that structure in the Netherlands. So you can imagine that there are different options. I think it would be a good idea to have the substantive debate as soon as the report arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	I do not really know if she will be included in this block, but I had asked a question about the differentiation provisions in relation to the BES islands. Will the Secretary of State come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	I think I took it off in writing. I gave the answer in the written set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	Then I have a follow-up question. Can the Secretary of State also state what the definition of "differentiation" is? What exactly does that include? The Secretary of State refers to positive purchasing power developments and says that the BES islands are becoming increasingly popular. Can the Secretary of State also differentiate these purchasing power figures according to socio-economic population characteristics? In my view, these corrected figures make it all the more painful to see that the poverty gap is only widening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	I think Mrs Özütok is referring to the answer to Mr Kuzu's unnumbered question about purchasing power development towards income groups. This shows that purchasing power has developed positively across the board since 2016. Those figures are somewhat dated, but they are the last figures of the CBS we have. When it comes to differentiation, it is important to look at what is desired on the islands. That's what I mean by "equal, but not equal." There is, for example, the example of Saba, who would like to do things himself that are not doing it yet. For example, another island doesn't want you to do it. So you're making a distinction between islands. Moreover, you do not want everything that is in the European Dutch field of legislation to be automatically rolled out over the islands. I just want to listen very carefully to the priorities that the islands themselves see. I am also prepared to take steps forward. Mrs Van den Berg mentioned, for example, the target benefits. She asked if 70 target benefits were actually not what many. Actually, I think that's a bit much. How can we reduce that number, just one step at a time? What is the most obvious way of laying down an island within the framework of its own freedom of policy? We can, of course, talk on a conceptual level about what that differentiation clause means, but I am very much of the school that you are trying to hear from its own national authorities and island councils where the priorities lie. I usually talk to them about this when I'm on the islands. They also recognise that they cannot do everything at once. I think this is a point on the horizon in the context of the fight against poverty. But we can indicate the direction through which we can walk and then see if it works in practice. We have nothing to say: we are going to put that aside and we are going to deal with the legislation in the same way as the European Netherlands. We will then see problems everywhere, because there is too little capacity or quality within the administration to carry it out. So I think we need to deal with this very carefully, but also pragmatically. In the end, we serve the inhabitants of the islands best. But I say to Mrs Özütok that I am open to the wishes of the island councils to take steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	Well, then briefly. I understand what the Secretary of State means, but I still have a problem with it. When we look at the circumstances and the differences in the cost of living here and there, I continue to find it difficult that we do not really come up with a proper approach that can really solve those people who are now living in distressing poverty. We've had this discussion, but I keep having really big problems with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mrs Özütok has put forward her position very well in the debate. I think that our positions are not so far apart at the end of the day, except that Mrs Özütok would now like to take a number of measures in the short term which are of a different order from the measures we have taken. In the debate, Mr SZW and I indicated that there was a whole range of measures. Some instruments have not even been put into practice yet. For example, we have the rent allowance, which we want to introduce. If you want to see how that all works together, you're gonna have to do it one step at a time. That dot on the horizon we pointed out. In 2019 there will be a report on the basis of which the balance sheet will be drawn up in 2020. 2020 sounds a long way away, but that's pretty close. I do not want to push over the period of this cabinet, but I want to re-examine the effects of these measures in this cabinet. That is what I said in the debate. And yes, I fully recognise that there are still a few challenges, especially on the cost side. I just mentioned energy and water, but it also applies, of course, to the prices of products. This affects agriculture again, which some of you have spoken about. So it's a whole package, where you can't turn one button and thus reach the solution. You're gonna have to turn some buttons at once. You have to do this in such a way that it doesn't produce disproportionate effects. That is where we differ; that is what I have heard from you in the debate. But in the end, we are looking the same way when it comes to the final goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	I was just, of course, pleased to hear the Secretary of State say: I am prepared to look at these target benefits. For 70 target benefits for an island of 2,000 inhabitants, that alone is a huge administrative burden. Can the Secretary of State also indicate whether he will include this in the administrative agreements or whether that will be a separate plan for 2019? In other words, how long will the islands be allowed to notice this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	I think it would be a good suggestion to include that in the administrative agreements. By the way, that goes hand in hand with more for more, less for less. I've reported that before. The administration and administrative capacity will have to meet a number of basic conditions in order to do so. If you were to say "we combine all these target benefits into a general benefit at once," then you could really lack certain qualities in such a small-scale organisation. So you have to think about it, but I think it would be a good suggestion to include it in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	I have one more question about the complexity and the directional role. You replied to the written questions on the prevention agreement. You say that there is a sports and prevention agreement. In this house we are talking about a sports agreement and a prevention agreement. You put it together and mention an amount of 1 million. So I'm curious about the distribution of that money. Is that for bringing the two agreements together on the islands? With regard to the prevention agreement, I do have questions about the issues you are discussing. I very much miss a lifestyle intervention in that. This has to do with healthy nutrition, obesity and anti-smoking and anti-alcohol policies. I think that is an example where coordination is extremely important. Then how do you intend to decorate it? 'Cause I think you can have a job there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	I have very good contacts with my colleague from VWS, Blokhuis, who is responsible for this. So I am not going to go on ice either by answering Mrs Dierten's question in substance, because this is not my field of expertise. This really is on the domain of the Secretary of State of VWS. But in the administrative steering committee and the executive consultation you should coordinate the effects where things touch each other. We are. It is true what you are saying: this also affects the social component, for which Mr Van Ark is responsible again. This ultimately also affects, via energy and water, the colleagues of EZK and IenW. So yes, coordinating does not mean, at least not at the moment, that the competence lies with the Secretary of State for the Interior. It means that those colleagues who are responsible for this in their domain, in their budget, are doing the things that are in line with the great direction we all want to take. In this sense, there is no light between what Mr Blokhuis wants and what we want as a BZK. Mr. Chairman. Following information from the Council of State, an interdepartmental policy investigation, an ibo, is also being prepared. This should lead to substantiated variants for a possible other policy approach and an appropriate financial construction. I hope that this report will be produced before the summer of 2019, a fine report. I've said before that I'm not much of a reporter. I'm more of an approach. Sometimes you need those reports and sometimes you don't have a choice; then those reports are just there. Those countries on your desk when you didn't order them and then you're supposed to have an opinion on them. Above all, I am in the process of achieving genuinely visible improvements. Mr Bishop asked me very courteously, as I know him, whether I could live with a motion to interfere in the allocation of funds from the departments' budgets for the islands. Although I could live well with that, I do not turn my heart into a murder pit. I would like to wait for the results of the information and of the ibo. This also fits in with the processes that we have now started. Then I come to the block of practical measures, Mr President. That means quite simply: what problems are there and how can we help each other within the kingdom to solve them? This concerns both the relationship with the countries and the relationship with the BES islands. Of course, we are now working on the Bonaire administrative agreement, which has been discussed before. That is actually an inventory of Bonaire's side to link the problems, the challenges, which one has there with the extra efforts one wants to make, but also with the resources from the regional envelope. For example, the possible introduction of a rent subsidy has very positive effects for Bonaire potentially, and the housing corporation FCB is currently preparing a plan for 500 social rental homes. Practical cooperation is also about financial cooperation, because the financial situation of the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and also Saint Martin, particularly as a result of the hurricane, is worrying. I can't say otherwise. It has been said by a number of you. Aruba's debt ratio is far too high. We have a good partnership with the cabinet. The cabinet headed by Prime Minister Wever-Croes really has the ambition to reduce budget deficits and thereby reduce debt, but they are not yet in safe waters. Reports from the CAft indicate that, too. In Curaçao, the situation is equally worrying. The economy is barely growing there and developments in Venezuela also have a negative impact on what is happening. There too, the government is of good will and I want to have said so here, but that does not solve all the problems. Where we can support them. I believe that Mrs Van den Berg asked for this too. For example, we have now pledged support to Curaçao for expertise on finance, because we all know the limited scale, although these are countries, and the challenges they face. I think it is precisely the added value of the Kingdom that we, as the Netherlands, cooperate in this if we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	There are interruptions, but I'll see if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	I was almost done with this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	Then I would suggest that you conclude this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	The other point, which we also discussed in the previous budget, is how to increase the level of knowledge of officials on the different islands. We do this in a very practical way. We do this through training and training, not only for civil servants but also for drivers. Also in the run-up to the island council elections in March 2019, a training course will be launched for parties and potential new directors. In this training, the focus is on rolling distribution. What role do you take as a driver? How does it work in practice? The legal and administrative frameworks and the legislation you have to comply with, integrity of course, and cooperation with the device. They are actually courses that are also given in the European Netherlands through aldermen's associations and the Board Academy, which are offered there on the island scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	I shall now go to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	The Secretary of State just said he's always willing to provide technical support. We are pleased to hear that. Here's what I was wondering. Can I hope that for a limited period it is not, as we call it, or should it always be paid by the countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	That depends a little bit, because in the end there is no free. Mrs Van den Berg knows that too. So either the department that makes officials available facilitates that or BZK, but we do not have a very comprehensive budget to support that point. Sometimes it is paid for by the country itself, because it is not so much a budgetary problem but simply because it does not have the right knowledge. So it can vary from one situation to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	The heading of practical matters in the Kingdom. From a prison on Saint Martin the wall fell down. It wasn't fixed. That is why we put expensive soldiers there and that was the reason why it was not repaired. Then those soldiers had to be removed and the wall was repaired. There was a very big crook, Mr. Corallo. He was not only in the Kingdom, but throughout Europe a very great villain. He was supposed to be in a police cell. He's in Italy now where he's probably convicted of large-scale fraud. And now the European Court has decided that the Netherlands should give €5,000 to Mr Corallo, because the prison in Saint Martin was not in order. That is crazy, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	I've always learned to keep an eye on rhetorical questions. I was also unpleasantly surprised by this statement. Let me say that. I sent you a letter on that today. With the colleagues of JenV and Foreign Affairs, I am looking at how we should interpret this statement precisely, because this statement may have a lot of consequences. I was uncomfortable with it. This also indicates that I shall turn it around in such a way that it is of the utmost importance that law enforcement in Saint Martin, which includes the prison, should reach an adequate level as soon as possible. That is the practical effort I am trying to make together with my colleague, Minister Dekker for Legal Protection. In the discussions with the authorised Minister of Saint Martin and the Minister of Justice in recent weeks we have looked at how we can take action and how the wall, camera security, overclimbing security and all practical matters should be repaired. The prison will then be functional and safe again, not only for the prisoners but also for those responsible for guarding the prisoners. That is of the utmost importance, because the law enforcement chain has been neglected. There has been insufficient political attention to this in recent years. In the end, it's about money. Where you place your political priority, you must also provide the means. That didn't happen enough. I hope that this statement also has something good in it, namely that it will lead the authorities in Saint Martin to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	But the verdict can also intervene very deeply in our relations. For we are a kingdom of four equal countries. In the Kingdom, Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands are four equal countries that assist each other. The Netherlands, because it is by far the largest country, often plays the biggest role. But that happens on the basis of equivalence. The remarkable thing now is that the European Court did not condemn the Kingdom, but the Netherlands. That is remarkable, because that would mean that the Netherlands is actually above the other countries and has greater responsibility. This is fundamentally contrary to the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	I know the statute, too. I also have a number of questions that Mr Van Raak has. I want to handle this carefully. That is precisely why the letter we sent at the request of the Chamber in connection with the organisation of work indicates how the cabinet continues to deal with it. Mr President, allow me to ask Mr Van Raak for an understanding of the fact that I cannot now analyse the content of the rest and that I have all the potential consequences in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	Can we at least wait until all that has happened for the transfer of the €5,000? 'Cause that's obviously insane. This is a big crook. He was convicted of bribing former Prime Minister Schotte in Curaçao and he bribed a lot of people: politicians on the islands and probably also in Italy. Of course, it would be awesome to have to give that gentleman $5,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yeah, I've got some ideas about that, too, but I've learned that as a ruler, you shouldn't lay down private ideas here. But we also respect court rulings. We're gonna study it, and we're gonna see how we're gonna react to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	I have considered Article 43 of the Statute for the Kingdom in my contribution. When it comes to the human rights issue, the question arises as to where the activation obligation or act rests. There are now two cases. Amnesty writes that human rights are seriously violated in detention in Venezuela, and today we are being flagged about human rights violations in Saint Martin. Apart from the issues themselves, it is two fundamental issues that concern human rights. We have an equal relationship, but the Netherlands has greater administrative power. How do you see these issues in relation to what is in the statutes and the activation of Article 43?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	I understand the question, but I do want to be very careful and not sweep the Corallo case together with Amnesty's discussion. I will come back to the situation in Venezuela in a moment, to what that means for the islands and how we are fulfilling the role of assisting each other within the Kingdom. Article 43 of the Staff Regulations states: "Each country shall ensure the attainment of fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration." That's paragraph 1. Paragraph 2: "Protection of these rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration is a matter for the Kingdom." So the first responsibility lies with the country. And that is precisely why I am putting the emphasis on the quality of law enforcement, not only on Saint Martin, but also on Curaçao and Aruba, where, for example, the issue of migrants and refugees is at stake. It is too easy to say that the Netherlands is immediately the country to be addressed if something goes wrong. Mr Van Raak is right about that. This responsibility lies primarily with the countries themselves. The fact that we are discussing this already indicates that we are filling in the guarantee function. We have provided funds for reconstruction on St.Maarten, for example, but also for the creation of a detention facility in Curaçao. This indicates that we are not standing on the side and watching, but that is something other than being directly addressed to things that are not going well and can then be traced back immediately to the Dutch Government. Then it's a kingdom matter. Then we'll talk about the National Council of Ministers and the Kingdom Government. That's different than one-on-one passing to the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	I get that. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply, but I am concerned about the following. Is this Secretary of State also taking up this role as coordinating director when it comes to these human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	The discussion about the coordinating role is somewhat different from the issue of my portfolio of Kingdom relations. Let me start with the latter. From that portfolio I have addressed, I address and also help the countries where they are failing or need help in law enforcement. We support the police in Saint Martin. We have contributed to the prisons, both physically and in knowledge, the training of people. We're gonna keep doing that, but it's gonna have to end sometime. It's a national task. We want to help the countries to stand on their own feet, but in the end the countries themselves will have to free up the resources to do so. I've said that before. This also applies to the situation in Curaçao and Aruba, on which critical reports have been published. We call on the countries themselves to comply with the ECHR obligations. The Kingdom of the Netherlands has committed itself to those conventions. They are therefore also valid in the individual countries within the Kingdom. If there are problems there, Mrs Özütok is right, and we have the knowledge, then I think we are also morally obliged to make them available. We do so on the basis of requests from the countries. It's not like we're walking around with what people are saying, do you have anything to do for us? No, the countries are asking for help and we are looking to facilitate it. But we must be careful not to interpret that guarantee function too quickly if in this case the Netherlands should then take over the responsibilities. The fact that we are debating and that we are actively interfering with the need for these systems to be in order, that they must comply with the treaties we are obliged to undertake, already clearly shows how we feel about this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'd still like to go a step further. We facilitate, we address the countries within the Kingdom, but recently the Advisory Council on International Questions gave the government the necessary advice. They make it very clear that there is a difference between theory and practice. I hear a nice theoretical story now, but what are we going to do in practice, apart from addressing and facilitating the countries? I believe that from our moral obligation, which the Secretary of State also mentioned, we have an obligation to do something more in good and respectful consultation. As far as I am concerned, that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr Kuzu does not have to worry about the latter, at least as far as I am concerned. I have very good contact with all countries, I find myself. I think that's how it's seen from the other side. That doesn't mean you don't have a difference of opinion every now and then. So there is. Look, I'd like to point out that moral obligation. If we have the knowledge and experience of how to set up certain systems, we share that knowledge. Four countries, one Kingdom. These are things in which the small countries within the Kingdom can learn. Maybe we have no legal responsibility, but we do have a moral responsibility that we also fill in. That is very practical, that is very practical. The report of the AIV, which is followed by a cabinet response, which Mr Kuzu knows gives an inventory of all the legislation and treaties that we as the Kingdom of the Netherlands are bound to and where they have been properly implemented and not properly implemented. That is a very impressive list, by the way. What we are doing now in the area of law enforcement, but also in the area of the asylum and migration chain, are very practical solutions, precisely because of the idea that the countries need more than a high-level discussion without having the capacity to fill it out themselves. I hope that Mr Kuzu will see that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	Absolutely. I'm sure that's what I'm saying. As far as I am concerned, it must also be very practical and pragmatic. Like the AIV, I would like to say that the Netherlands, as the largest country, as a partner within the Kingdom, should take the lead in this. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to take the lead on this report in advance of the Juice of the Cabinet. As far as I am concerned, that goes a little further than facilitating and appealing to countries. For example, it could lead very concretely to a standard roadmap for all countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	I am going to answer this in a formal way, because I am not the only government person involved in this. Many departments are involved in this. I would like to point out that we have an orderly decision-making process in the cabinet. That debate on the report will be based on an integrated cabinet letter. Addressing is also part of the process, of course, sometimes it is necessary to do so, but in the direction of Aruba and Curaçao we have offered support if there is a need for it. Curaçao has materialized that with a request, not Aruba yet. In Sint-Maarten we made a substantial contribution. If that's necessary, if there's little progress... I need only take up the reports from the Progress Committee; I can now build a whole pile of them on my desk. It just says that it's all going too slowly and that Saint Martin now has to show that they're serious about picking up the problems that exist. Again, it is a matter of country based on the Statute. I am trying to fill the practical space, but we cannot accept that responsibility. If there are requests, including from Curaçao, then we look closely at them. That's what we do with JenV's colleagues and the Foreign Office. That's my experience. If you ask the people there, they will undoubtedly agree; I cannot imagine it would be any different. But that does not solve the problem, because it is about much more than just money for a detention centre. It is also about knowledge and skills of procedures, and sometimes also about the autonomy of a country that may, in a general sense, set different priorities that we would like here, than you would like here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	Please continue. I think you've gained children's rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been asked by several MPs about children's rights and strengthening them. The Van Laar/Segers amendment was tabled to the 2015 budget. This freed the children's rights three times 1 million euros for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. All departments have contributed to this in recent years and have committed themselves for a longer period. I think that this is a good time for the amendment tabled by Mr Kuiken and Mr Özütok to item No. Thirteen. I would also like to mention what has happened in this area in recent years. There has been good cooperation with UNICEF. UNICEF's work continues until the end of this year. In addition, there are projects for which funding has been granted to the islands and which have not yet been completed and therefore will continue in the coming financial year. I would like to mention a few examples. Both Saba and Sint-Eustatius fund a coordinator on children's rights and approach to domestic violence. That's co-financing with VWS for $240,000. For Saint-Eustatius, 400,000 dollars are invested in improving playgrounds and refurbishing the neighbourhood center. That runs until the end of 2019. For Saba, $650,000 is spent on playgrounds, sports activities and a good lunch at school. This also runs until the end of 2019. For Bonaire, it amounts to $750,000 for the purchase of school buses and after-school activities. That runs until the end of the year. In addition, several departments assume their responsibilities. VWS has committed 1.3 million per year to tackling domestic violence. For the Prevention and Sports Agreement, I say in the direction of Mrs Diertens, 1 million per year is available. In addition, 3 million is structurally released by SZW to work together with VWS and OCW on the broad approach to childcare, and SZW has made available another 1 million per year for Opportunities for all Children. So there's a lot going on. I think that was rightly highlighted by the Chamber with that amendment at the time. So that has had quite a dynamic. Is that gonna fix everything? No, not everything has been solved, but this means that, as some of these projects have not come to steam quite in time, the resources of that amendment will still be available for next year. I can also say that I have awarded a grant to UNICEF for a situational analysis, a qualitative study to monitor the situation of children, five years after UNICEF's first study. I am now conducting exploratory talks with UNICEF to see how we can strengthen his role in the Caribbean Netherlands in the coming years. Many departments are involved: OCW, SZW, JenV, VWS and BZK. So there's a lot going on. In response to Mrs Özütok's question on the implementation of treaties, I can also mention that Secretary of State Blokhuis of VWS is implementing the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Istanbul Convention for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. In 2017 an administrative agreement was concluded with the Caribbean Netherlands to deal with domestic violence and child abuse with the corresponding means. On behalf of the Netherlands, the Secretary of State of VWS has signed the MoU of the Children's Rights Task Force. This provides for an intensification of cooperation between countries and public bodies to improve the rights of the child. I will definitely use the coordinating role I have to continue UNICEF's good work over the coming years. It is important that this subject, which is sometimes somewhat taboo-bound, literally takes place behind the door, remains high on the agenda. If there are issues that directly concern children's rights, I am directly accountable to them, together with my colleague. In view of these efforts, I should like to refer to the amendment No. 13 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	Did you take care of this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	Then I'm going to... Mrs. Chicken or Mrs. Özütok, who? Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	The Secretary of State indicates which projects are under way and which projects are still under way; also very nice. But then there are also a lot of ambitions, and structural money is missing. So I haven't heard yet why he doesn't want structural money to keep anchoring that broad package of children's rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	What is happening now is that the amendment releases funds from the BZK budget. There are structural resources in it, but they go through other departments. I would like to point out that the efforts that have been made on the Van Laar/Segers amendment are still failing. There is therefore no financial problem for the coming year. I would also like to say to you that if such a problem arises, I am going to find a solution. However, I do not know whether the money will end up in a good way if we now adopt an amendment to add 1 million for children's rights in advance, while all these things are still going on, including through the specialist departments. We are also dealing with other priorities. It has to come from the length or width. That is why I must, in full terms, discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	But now I hear a number of arguments again. "I have other priorities" is another reason than "I already have enough money." Besides, I didn't make up my own mind to add a bag of cash. It is UNICEF, your main partner, I say through the President, who says he needs money to live up to all his ambitions. I take that partner very seriously. That is why I have been looking for, at least for now, occasional money, in order to be able to carry through the Van Laar/Segers money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	It's a combination. I fully recognise the importance of children's rights. Otherwise, I would not have mentioned this, yet impressive, list of projects that are currently running to address that problem. If there were an acute financial problem, I would welcome this amendment. But this is from the heading "socio-economic structure." This is a broader post, in which other things can play; think for example of the discussion we had about the minimum level of existence and the issues that lie there. So this money will be added. Good things would happen to them, too. But in the overall balance there will be a lot of money, so we may get the same situation as at the time at Van Laar/Segers, where the money is not spent. I'd be sorry to hear that. I would like to give a hand to the authors of the amendment. Should there be any concrete problems in the year 2019, I am able to address these problems. Then I'll see where we can find that space. But now freeing up a million dollars in advance, while all these projects are running, including through the specialist departments, does not fit in with the ambitions I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u89	For now, I don't think you have enough money to live up to all those ambitions about the big problems that children face on the islands. That's what UNICEF says. They have also indicated a number of points for which they would like to use that money. We have a moment before the amendment is put to the vote. I'm gonna call UNICEF again tomorrow. Then we will see together how to convince you that this is really an amendment that you must submit. If there's something else to cover or if we have to rephrase it, I'm open to it. But I'm not giving up yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's Mrs. Chicken again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u91	Well, here's another one when it comes to children's rights and the fight against poverty. We have been told by UMICEF today that there are indeed a lot of good initiatives, but that little is being achieved to improve the situation of children in the BES islands. So when it comes to the process of cooperation and the coordination of initiatives, they really see a problem emerging. It is not just a question of money, it is also a question of coordination. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? What does he intend to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have no specific reason to do so. But I can imagine, as I said in general terms earlier, that this coordination can be improved. So it could be that in recent years things may not have gone as well. I don't have a direct view of that. At the same time, I know that a lot of good things happen. Moreover, UNICEF is also the party that has done it itself in recent years. So he was there himself, I'm just saying. We are not opposed to each other in the sense that we do not regard children's rights as important. When I'm on the islands and I talk to people who are professionally involved, I hear there's a lot of hiding behind the front door. We have to deal with this very seriously. So that's not where the problem is. I'm always in for a good conversation. On the basis of the amendment as it now stands, I do not see the added value of presenting it now and thus honouring it from this post. Again, it cannot go to other things that are also important on the islands. We are now focusing on children's rights, but there are also a number of other issues that require attention. On the basis of the knowledge I have now, I can only advise against the amendment. If I can convince Mrs Kuiken that I know her, I said that I can convince her in another way, then I would be happy to look at that. I cannot make a commitment on this, but the point is that the money is not unlimited and neither is the absorption capacity on the islands. I'm not waiting for any more tests. I just want to do concrete things for kids. Let me also say, as I have seen in recent years, that I think that, in general terms, there are a lot of reports that have not been written on children's rights, and that if nothing happens to them, it will not be of any use to people. Let's roll out the money that there is and the projects that run in a good way, coordinated. I shall once again be able to understand this with the Secretary of State of the United States of America, and I know that he fully agrees with that in order to see if we can do this better. That's how I see your call. Then we must be able to achieve a lot of good things. I'm sure of it. Mr. Chairman. It's a big step from children's rights to Venezuela. This too has been the subject of a recent debate with the Chamber. In fact, all Members have asked: what is the situation now, what is the situation with regard to the refugee crisis and what does that mean in practice for the islands? The situation in Venezuela is, of course, dramatic. We can be very brief about this: terrible situations, also humanitarian. What is the impact on the Downwind Islands in particular? I have just indicated that the division of responsibility within the Staff Regulations is perfectly clear. It's a country matter. We want to assist within the Kingdom from the Netherlands. I have already indicated that we have committed a contribution of €132,000 for adequate detention facilities. This has led to a request from Curaçao to make that contribution affordable, but Curaçao still has to present a concrete plan for this, which is also in line with international standards for foreign detention. As long as we don't have that, that can't be affordable. It is good to mention that several Dutch services such as the IND, the Return and Departure Service, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, the Royal Marechaussee and the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Defence, JenV and BZK have been to Curaçao in early June. They have inventoried there "what is the situation, where can we help, where can we offer knowledge and skills?" to improve those processes and their optimization, which were so critical of from different sides, and to be prepared for situations that may be even more massive than what is happening now. I believe that this assistance in resources and knowledge will not mean that the Netherlands will take over the responsibilities. The countries themselves do not want that either. We do want to assist them when the challenges are so great that they are not prepared to do so. I think that is the balance that we want to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u93	Are you ready? Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u94	It bothers me a bit that the governments of Aruba and Curaçao have actually done nothing for the reception of refugees and now point their finger at the Netherlands. But having said that, I do think that we have a responsibility here. I find the trip of our Foreign Minister, on behalf of Aruba and Curaçao, intriguing. You suddenly saw that consul appear on Aruba. There was a negotiation with a Deputy Prime Minister, I believe, who we already knew would be opposed to EU sanctions. I asked the Secretary of State if he could rule out here in the open from the debate that the deportation, the return of all those refugees was part of the agreements to reopen the border between Venezuela, Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u95	I gave a written answer to that in the direction of Mr Van Raak, very comprehensively. I can repeat it one more time, but perhaps it would be useful for Mr Van Raak to state precisely where the uncertainty lies in the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u96	So the Secretary of State says here in this Chamber that sending refugees back from Aruba and Curaçao to Venezuela has not been part of the agreements made by our Foreign Minister regarding the reopening of the border between Venezuela, Aruba and Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u98	Okay. Then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u99	I had indicated in my contribution that about 30% of Curaçao's economy was affected by all developments in Venezuela. Has Curaçao made any other requests for help besides this center?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u100	As I just said, Curaçao has made a request for financial assistance. The report of the CFT shows that there are considerable challenges on all fronts, compliance, tax collection, land policy, real estate policy, government participations, where it is not optimally in order. But improvements are also possible with regard to the way in which they are budgeted. There the CFT made a number of recommendations. In this respect, a concrete request has been made for the Netherlands to provide expertise and we have responded positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u102	I'd like to come back to that. Today we have reports of an investigation by Zembla. That programme states that returning refugees has been part of those agreements. So I will continue to ask the same question as my colleague. Has returning refugees been part of those appointments? Have any refugees been sent back? We are achieving figures that we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u103	I take full account of my colleague from the Foreign Office, who looked into the questions to the Chamber in writing. I'm sticking to my answer. I don't know that broadcast or what's said there. So the same answer as in Mr Van Raak's direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u105	Then I come to the cup several questions. That's a lot of things. Let me start at 10-10-10. It's still a beautiful day. I hope that you will be able to celebrate your birthday tonight after this debate. Eight years of a new political relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u106	With all the islands, I celebrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr Van Raak has made an interesting suggestion. He said: if on November 16, 2026, 250 years since the Netherlands was the first nation to recognize the United States with a first salute, that would make it a beautiful memorial. I personally find this a very interesting thought. I'll give you a disclaimer right away. It is of course also important what the people on the island themselves think about that. But I think that this piece from the history of Saint-Eustatius, a history with different ages of highs and lows, can offer future to the island. That is also why the cliff and Fort Orange must remain in good condition, because they symbolise the history that was there. That would be a very nice totem pole to work in everything we do to make the island more beautiful for the people who live there, but also more attractive, not for mass tourism but for tourists who have an eye for beauty and nature and respectful handling. I think it's an interesting thought. I also think it is something I would like to discuss with the Government Commissioner, so that he can discuss it with the Social Advisory Council. Luckily, it's a long way away, so we still have time, Mr. Van Raak. An interesting thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you very much. I do have my historic day today, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u109	Yeah, I've been through it today, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u110	Fantastic. It seems very good to me to include, for example, the Heads of State of the United States and the Netherlands, we do not know who that will be in America, but in the Netherlands we may have a little more certainty about this and certainly to organise it with due regard for the dark sides of our shared past. So thank you very much for the enthusiasm of the Secretary of State. I think I will be tabling a motion in second place, together with Mr Bosman, in order to make that clear, but I assume that the Secretary of State will have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u111	With one remark, I'd say as an advance. I think it is very important that the people on the island themselves support this, of course, because it is not up to us here in The Hague to decide that. Mrs Özütok asked me, following on from the examination of the amendment to the Basic Registration Persons Act last week, on which the Chamber voted yesterday and unanimously adopted that amendment, whether it is also possible in the Caribbean Netherlands to include lifeless children in the Basic Registration Persons. I think this is a nice idea. It is not possible now, as I indicated in the debate, because there is no BRP on the BES islands. But I would like to look at whether there is a possibility of doing so, also in consultation with the BES Islands themselves. Here too, I attach great importance to the wishes of the island authorities and their views on this, because imposing it from the European Netherlands is the last thing I want. But I think it's a nice idea. Finally, relations within the Kingdom. I think, as we have just pointed out, in times of need, when there is a disaster, and also in times of crisis, for example the refugee crisis, it is extremely important to give an extra dimension to that decades-long kingdom relationship. It has evolved over time, but it's always about added value for each other, the common history with highs and lows and the ability to strengthen each other. This is not only from the European Netherlands to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, but also the other way around. It is precisely this set of four countries and three islands that brings added value. This includes the role of the royal family. I have now been able to experience it a number of times in the company of the royal couple on the islands. There you see just how much enthusiasm there is about the king's couple and that the people there really see the king's couple as their king's couple. That's very good to see. Actually, it's always King's Day when you're there with the king's couple. Mr Kuzu's specific question was to let the royal couple celebrate King's Day on one of the islands. That's really a question I can't and I'm going to answer, but that's what he expected. I think the royal couple is testifying and has involvement in his way. I've seen that up close, and that's heartwarming. In April 2015 they were still in Rincon at Bonaire and early December 2017 at Sint-Maarten, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. I was there myself, including Saba. During the past year, the royal couple also attended the celebration of the Dia di Bandera on Curaçao. So there's a busy itinerary to the islands. It's nice to see how that's polite there. I have seen the diversity of the islands over the past year and also the unity through all that diversity, the pride of one's own culture, history and, above all, the cherishing of the band within the Kingdom. I've experienced a lot of warmth. Lots of physical heat, too. I just saw Mrs. Kuik wrestling with Dutch temperatures here in Parliament. That's not gonna bother us. I've also experienced the human warmth that's there when you talk to people. That's always good to see. That drives me, but not just me, our officials here and there, to do that important work on a daily basis. If we can take a step forward every day and make it better, then the objectives are achievable. Do it practically, do it concretely. I would therefore like to thank all the people who have contributed to this, both from the countries and the islands as well as here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u112	Were you done with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u113	My first term is ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u114	That's good. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u115	I have one more question about the beautiful islands. I know that Mrs. Kuiken also likes to watch the coral reefs underwater with snorkels and diving equipment. Then she certainly isn't cold, because then she bounces enthusiastically out of the water again. I asked another question. I did not receive a reply in writing. The question about CO emissions has been answered in writing, but not my question about how we can do nature management and conservation there, via STINAPA, for example, on Bonaire, and the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance. They are no longer receiving subsidies for this, but they are happy to remain involved in the development and protection of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u116	I've seen that question come along. I don't see it at the written answer, indeed. You're right about that. Look, an organization like STINAPA, which I have visited myself a number of times, is doing a very good job. Protecting the underwater and surface nature, one of the unique sides of the islands, is important to remain attractive to tourists not to show mass tourism the beauty. It is therefore vital to invest in it. That is precisely why we are not ready for the exact amounts in the context of the Envelope Region, but if you want them, I can make sure that you have invested or are going to invest them, together with the Minister of LNV, in important projects in this area. The Minister of LNV will also go that way again. So this is definitely gonna get recognized. What you see, and of course that's what you see in Holland: if you're very close to something and you're in it every day, then you don't always see the beauty anymore. Just for outsiders it's very nice to see what's going on. But that is not all unthreatened, so it will also have to be invested in it. We've already invested in that and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u117	I waited until the end, until all the cubes were over, because my question might be what is atypical and not fit into one of the cubes. This is again about what I started last year. It concerns that article 2.32 of WolBES, which can be dealt with in the event of serious neglect of the administrative task. I'm talking about Bonaire, of course. Last year, I filed and held a motion and dropped it. I see that the Secretary of State, whom I thank for his brief and concise answers in the written reply, is working on a governance agreement with Bonaire. This could be partly due to the fact that the authority itself wants stricter action to be taken. I said earlier that this is an exception to the Antilles: we want to be treated more strictly. Well, that's good. That's point one. If, and I come to my question, the government agreement is not going to work in the long term and the tasks are still being neglected by the island council and the delegates, is the State Secretary prepared to consider whether or not he is going to intervene in this way as I intended last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u118	I remember Mr De Graaf's contribution very well. I believe that just the week before I met the authority on my first working day at the Tower for a meeting. So I met him once. I met him many times afterwards, but also the delegates, both there and here. I have faith in the governance agreement we're about to conclude. I don't really want to anticipate when-then. I understand your question, but I also think that this is a burden on the route we are taking. You have seen over the past year, I hope, with me too, that I do not run away from problems, but that I also rely on trust. I'd be happy to give you that confidence. Then I also hope that I will get that back and that we will be able to take further steps in the interests of the people. So that just goes with good governance. I have explained this once again in letters. And that is precisely the reason why the funds from the region-envelope went unconditionally to Saba and Saint-Eustatius and not to Bonaire. That has something to do with it, of course. There it has been politically unstable and things have not gone well in recent years. I'm not covering that up; we've all seen it. That's what I've been talking to people about. I also expect that the agreements we make in the administrative agreement on both sides will be respected on the Bonaire side, but the same applies to our side. That's how I'd like to start, and I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you for that answer. Then we're going to monitor that closely in the future. I think we'll talk about it again next year, in life and well-being. I assume that the administrative agreement will be running a lot by then and that the required rigour on our part will pay off a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you both. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got six minutes. I'm not gonna finish that one for a long time. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u122	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u123	We're gonna be a little short tonight. Then maybe we'll be done by 10:30. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his reply. I just had to decide if I was gonna ask my question at the interrupting microphone or here. So I could divide it up nicely. The motion remains and I shall briefly introduce it. As long as the PVV exists, we will fight for equal rights for the countries within the Kingdom. The UN Charter is in the way, because on the basis of the fact that we once had colonies, we cannot leave the Kingdom ourselves. We disagree, and I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of the UN Charter, there is legal inequality between the Netherlands and the other countries within the Kingdom;]] [[whereas the Netherlands deserves the same rights as Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has meanwhile fulfilled its duties as a former coloniser of the other countries of the Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government to serve the interests of the people of the Netherlands and to ensure the departure of the other countries from our Kingdom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. It's 10-10-2018, eight years after 10-10-10. It squeaks and cracks in the Kingdom. The statute doesn't fit anymore. We can tell by all the facts. Yesterday I spoke about the Minister of Justice of Saint Martin, De Weever, and how easily he indicated in our conversation that if the problems become big enough, it will become a responsibility of the Kingdom. And yes, there is the European Court of Human Rights. You see the court wrestling with exactly what's going on. What kind of kingdom or country or government is it? Who's responsible? But in the meantime that statement is there and the address of the Kingdom is the Binnenhof in The Hague. We have been sentenced for the inhumane treatment of Mr Francesco Corallo, a member of the Italian mafia and imprisoned in prison on Saint Martin. That prison wasn't standard. This story is at the heart of the Kingdom's problem. It's a Minister of Justice who just sits back, looks around, lets things go down and says, "If it gets big enough, it's the Kingdom's responsibility. They'll figure it out in The Hague. This Minister of Justice, De Weever, is not worth calling himself Minister and should take credit for himself. Mr. Chairman. That prison was in a plan of action for 10-10-10. I know that this Chamber has kept that plan of action alive. There was still talk that a previous minister was planning to stop it. We notice that prison and justice have not always been the highest priority on Saint Martin. When I look at the Prime Minister of Justice on St.Maarten, Mr. Roland Duncan, who was also a brothel holder in addition to his position as Minister of Justice, it is logical that justice is not the top priority. And it's still not in order. Isn't it time to invite the Prime Minister of Saint Martin and perhaps call him to account in the National Council of Ministers? Then Sint-Maarten can immediately lay down a firm plan in which they will actually deal with the problems with prison and justice. How does the Secretary of State view this? Mr. Chairman. Then agriculture on Bonaire. Why am I hammering so hard at agriculture? I think that's what everyone in this room says. A very nice report has just been mentioned on agriculture in the Caribbean. It's the core of survival, the core of good food. Obesity concerns are high, including in the Caribbean. Agriculture makes healthy food cheaper. In fact, it's just work. It's income. It generates a lot of things that are needed for the locals. It is then impossible to believe that the 8 million in the budget for Bonaire has simply disappeared. That's what makes me so angry. On Facebook I have regular contact with people from Bonaire. They then refer back every time: "Joh, find out for yourself. It's your problem. Ask the Cft. Surely they have a responsibility in that?" That's exactly what I'm worried about. Especially Bonaire, people should be angry and say, "That can't be true!" There is money in the budget and it disappears into the pockets of the wrong people. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that agriculture on Bonaire does not want to get off the ground;]] [[noting that USD 8 million was available for the LVV but where figures and results are not available;]] [[Whereas agriculture is an essential factor in creating affordable and healthy food while at the same time providing work;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to include the organisation of the LVV and agriculture in Bonaire as a priority in the administrative agreement and to enter into consultation with the Ministries of Finance and LNV in order to involve the effectiveness of the (service) agriculture in Bonaire in the planned interdepartmental policy research in recent years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bosman, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Raak, Mr Diertens, Mr Kuzu and Mr De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that he wants to talk to the countries of Aruba and Curaçao about the evaluation, because as I said, it squeaks and cracks. Five years after 10-10-10, an evaluation was carried out only for the Caribbean Netherlands How did it come about? However, it is not the Statute as a whole. You'll still notice there's disappointment. On all the issues that we are discussing, whether it is the ISLA, whether it is the refugees or not, there is always the debate: when is that responsibility for the Netherlands? I keep repeating it: they are national responsibilities. I'm gonna go over it again. Article 43 (2) says that safeguards will only be guaranteed if there is no longer a redres. This means that the use of the guarantee function is only possible if there is no longer any possibility for the country, whether it is a legal process, whether it is trade unions or elections. It is not a means by which, if we do not like it anymore, we can ring the bell here and say: 'Well, Secretary of State, Article 43 (2) get to work!' It can't be. The frustration, the disappointment, is that it is in the Statute. The guarantee is there and we can't handle it. That's been my personal frustration for eight years. That's why I'm glad the Secretary of State says he's looking at an evaluation. And yes, he says, "Are the countries waiting for it? Is this the right time?" It's never a good time. Or there's a country that doesn't have the finances in order. There's been a hurricane. The refinery is bankrupt. All these things will be dealt with. It is never a good time, so we will all have to talk about this Statute now, because perhaps we will come to better judgements and activities if we change that Statute. Because, Chairman, the VVD already has a vision of the Kingdom. Together with the SP, we have written the initiative paper for a commonwealth. I hope that more people will think about what that future of the Kingdom is, that we can include it in the evaluation. We, the SP and the VVD, have launched that idea, but that does not mean that we are not open to any other good plan. But I like to hear that, from Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten, also from Bonaire, Saba, Sint-Eustatius but certainly also from the Netherlands. We, too, have a right to find something. We, too, have the right to say how we see our Kingdom and how we intend to implement it. For, Mr President, the Statute is not of the 21st century. And it is time for the Statute to enter the 21st century, because it squeaks and cracks and sands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I appreciate his hand-off-the-sleeving approach in the complex political relations. At the same time, the inhabitants of the Caribbean region of the Kingdom must also see real results of our solidarity and our commitment to equality for all kingdom dwellers. There's a lot of trouble. I would like to mention a few: the refugee problem, detention conditions, the Isla refinery, poverty, children's rights, both in the countries and in the Caribbean Netherlands. I keep wondering for which social problems and by whom the guarantee function is activated. The Netherlands does not assume any responsibilities, I understand the Secretary of State. But whether or not problems can be solved with that remains to be seen. I therefore have two motions to support the coordinating role of this Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has called the issue of the registration of lifeless babies sympathetic. Nevertheless, I have a motion to support, to make that conversation possible. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of including lifeless children in the Basic Administration of Persons recognises the importance of registration for parents and can contribute to alleviating grief;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, with regard to the Caribbean Netherlands, whether a similar adjustment is desirable by the administrative colleges and, if so, to provide for such an adjustment of the Personal Information Service of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba and to consider, in good agreement with the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, such an adjustment and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last year the government was invited to make efforts to improve the position of children on Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba;]] [[noting that no (specific) funds are currently allocated within the budget;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate EUR 1 million annually to the Kingdom relations budget over the next three years, in addition to the funds available in specialist departments, to strengthen the coordinating position of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom relations in the field of youth policy and child protection and for the capacity building of the public body and local organisations, technical assistance, children's rights education and participation, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-17]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for both the written and the oral answers to all our questions. It turns out that the Secretary of State really stands for an integrated approach to all problems. We appreciate that very much. In this context, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for looking at the CDA's request to integrate documents or several parts of the free allowance into the general benefit. Mr. Chairman. Last year the CDA tabled a motion on innovative agricultural policy, also to make the islands more self-sufficient. Many thanks for the answers. This policy is very important, as it reduces dependence on imports. We assume that this will also be part of the integrated multi-annual administrative agreements. On Saba and Sint-Eustatius the Secretary of State already gives an indication. Is he also willing to report on Bonaire at the end of the year? The other colleagues have already asked the necessary questions and made comments about the prison on St Maarten. At least I'd like to stay informed. We have another supplementary question on Aruba. Aruba is working on the social crisis plan. Can the Secretary of State state state what the elements and their economic implications are and what stage it is in? We understand that Aruba will be supported by the Netherlands with knowledge and expertise. Is that right? Is that gonna happen? Is that not gonna happen? Is that gonna happen? Is that gonna happen? Is that gonna happen? As indicated above, we consider support in the form of knowledge and skills from the Netherlands to be important if the countries so request. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I spoke about the importance of integrity and trustworthy governance. Again, it is good to see that the Secretary of State wants to invest in the administrative agreements, including through training. However, we hear that communication about the public domain, so what happens by the government coalition and the island council, is very limited. The point is, if you know you don't know something, you ask questions about it, but if you don't know you don't know something, you can't ask questions about it. We believe that good communication about Bonaire's governance is important for the people of Bonaire, because it enables them to make a conscious choice in the elections. Can the State Secretary in any way encourage and support them in the run-up to the island council elections? This is linked to the next question. The Secretary of State has asked the Council of State for information under the administrative agreement. We very much support that. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to include the structure and organisation of public enterprises in the cabinet response to the opinion with this information? The appointments are now very political because administrative colleges appoint both the supervisory board and the management board. Nor is the organisation unambiguous. Finally, Mrs Diertens will also be tabling a motion on behalf of us, but in the meantime on behalf of many other people, to support the powers of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I will go to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I count my year in the Senate, I'm about 15 years spokesperson Kingdom. In those years I have become fond of the islands and even more of the people, but I have also become very gloomy about the Kingdom. I see that drivers on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten do not serve the public interest, but other interests, make a big mess of it and then point to the Netherlands. When it comes to Saba, Statia and Bonaire, I see that it is very difficult for the ten ministries here, even though there are many well-meaning people there, to allow small local government in a Caribbean. I'm very sorry about that. The SP also voted against 10-10-10. I have to say, I've been disappointed. I don't think we've done well. At the time, I think that we looked at Caribbean reality in Hague too much, pushed too many things through, while we should have had a slower growth model to allow countries such as St.Maarten to slowly grow into more independence. That is also the plan I have with Mr Bosman of the VVD. That commonwealth means making agreements with each island on a path of growth towards the greatest possible autonomy and always a safety net of the Kingdom. We didn't do that back then. That's a missed opportunity. We've got the next eight years ahead of us now. I'd like to start with a good and hopeful start by looking at what binds us. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the First Salute on 16 November 1776 from Fort Orange on Saint-Eustatius Netherlands was the first nation to recognize the United States;]] [[Considers that 250 years of relations between our countries should be celebrated in an appropriate manner, also taking into account the dark sides of our shared past;]] [[calls on the government, together with Saint-Eustatius and the United States, to prepare for a celebration on 16 November 2026 at Fort Orange, preferably in the presence of our two Heads of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u133	It's a symbol, but symbols are important. Symbols matter. Even if it's a symbolic celebration, it could be something that we all support. The Secretary of State rightly said: I will only do it if there is support from Saint Eustatius. I'd like to expand that. We only do it if there is support from Saba, from Bonaire, from Saint Martin, from Curaçao and from Aruba. It is also a good reason for us and for the people on Statia to get the island in order, to make it beautiful, to get the house in order to receive all those visitors of this unique historical heritage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I shall now go to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It always takes a while before the chair is low enough, because I'm just a little one. I always find it wonderful that I am allowed to do this work, and in particular that I am allowed to represent the Caribbean Netherlands as a representative of the people. I've been connected to that for over 25 years, especially with Curaçao. This all comes together very nicely. I am also very happy to hear from the Secretary of State that he is so touched by the warmth and strength, or the warmth, of the people there. That's what always connects me. I think we can sometimes take an example of this, with our somewhat rigid way of operating with more rules. So I'm very happy about that. In particular, you have promised to take concrete steps with regard to psychosocial funding at St Maarten. I'm very happy about that. You have also promised that you will pass this on to the prevention and sports agreement, and that it will possibly get a local variant, which will probably not be copy-paste like here, because it is just another world with a different culture there. I am also pleased that you are redirecting nature conservation matters to LNV, and that you want to take action with STINAPA and other organisations there, so that that beautiful nature and especially coral reefs are protected. I have one motion left, because all of these things require a great deal of coordination. I would therefore like to ask the following question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since 10-10-10 the government has not always adequately addressed the coordination issue with regard to the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[noting that from the departmental responsibilities several directors are responsible for the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the Government Agreement agreed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be given a stronger coordinating role including the corresponding budget;]] [[noting that there is a request for information concerning the existing form of the relationship between the European and Caribbean Netherlands and the coordinating role of BZK at the Council of State;]] [[Whereas the results and the request for such information are presented to the Chamber by the end of 2018;]] [[Whereas a stronger coordinating role for the ruler in charge of Kingdom relations ensures better coordination in the fields of projects and investment, as well as legislation and regulation, thereby increasing the impact for the citizens of the Caribbean Netherlands (motion-Diertens et al., 34775 IV No. 19, adopted 14 November 2017);]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Council of State with a cabinet response as soon as possible and to present it to the Chamber, so that no time is wasted in making improvements in the coordinating role,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Diertens, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bishop, Mr Bosman, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Özütok, Mr Van Raak, Mr Kuzu and Mr Kikk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I have tabled an amendment because I am convinced that the reason why some projects have been delayed cannot be the reason to say that it is not necessary for the coming years. The ambitions are so great. So I'm not giving up yet. I'm gonna get back to UNICEF. I know there are other motions about'monitors', 'coordinate' and'see how we can do that'. So I won't sign it for the time being, because then I'm already gonna give up and I'm not gonna be like that. That's not how I'm in the game. For that, children's rights are simply too important. Because whether it lives here or there, every child must have the security of a safe home and the opportunity to grow up well. I'm going to try very hard for that. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Secretary of State, for all your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers, including those concerning the reconstruction of Saint Martin. I understand that we will receive progress reports before the end of the year. Then we can have the follow-up in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have joined the motion that has just been tabled by Mrs Özütok. Following last week's debate on the bill to include lifeless children in the basic administration, it asks the government to see whether this desire also exists on the islands and to make it possible there. Mr. Chairman. Then the children's rights on the islands of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. This is a subject that the Christian Union has been calling for attention to for many years. It is really incredibly important that we permanently anchor the policy to improve those rights. I also share what my colleagues have said about this. Last year I tabled a motion to continue the commitment that had already been made, because even then there was money left that had not yet been spent. At the moment, we are once again seeing that the funds have not yet been used, although they are available for them. That concerns us, because the children on the islands in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom have the same rights as the children in the Netherlands. All attention will have to be focused on this. I would also ask for special attention to be paid to this, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas policies to improve the position of children and children's rights in Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba should be permanently anchored in public bodies and in local organisations by providing technical assistance and capacity building;]] [[Whereas the funds provided for this purpose have not yet been fully used up by the Van Laar/Segers amendment, which continues to carry out projects;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of its progress by summer 2019;]] [[Calls on the Government, in the event of exhaustion of this budget in 2019, to endeavour to seek alternative funding for projects contributing to improving the position and rights of children on the islands and to inform the Chamber thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure enhanced coordination between the relevant departments of BZK, VWS, SZW and JenV and public bodies in the field of youth care and child protection in the Caribbean Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Graaf, Bosman, Van den Berg, Bishop and Diertens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u139	Yeah, that's the advantage of a small fraction. Then you can discuss a lot of budgets, so you can slide more easily. But indeed, Mr President, I would like to begin by apologizing, because in the first period I have increased my speaking time. Therefore, after thanking the ruler for answering the questions, I confine myself to strictly reading out a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report of the Sint-Maarten Progress Committee presents a picture of appalling conditions in prison and major risks to safety in that country;]] [[noting that 60 prisoners will soon return to uninhabitable cells on St.Maarten, which the Committee of Inquiry calls a disaster scenario;]] [[believes that such circumstances cannot be accepted in a country of our Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to reach an early solution to these problems in consultation with the Government of Saint Martin and to make cell capacity available in the Netherlands for a longer period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u141	The same applies to Mr Kuzu. He is arguing with Mr Öztürk about the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mr. Chairman. As for Mr Bishop, I too was far out of my speaking time. That is what I am compensating for with my own speaking time in the budget. I begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the answers he has given in the first term. We were particularly pleased that he spoke about the importance of reconstruction for the inhabitants of Saint Martin. I understand very well that there is a tension between trust in expenditure, control of expenditure and the way in which reconstruction is to take place. My group would like to see the process of reconstruction speeded up, because now we are in a position to set up procedures, bureaucracy, so stubbornly that this does not satisfy us. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, according to the General Court, only about 10% of the 550 million euro promised by the Netherlands was spent through the World Bank Trust Fund one year after the all-destruct Hurricane Irma;]] [[believes that the interests of the affected residents of St.Maarten should be at the forefront;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to consider how to accelerate the reconstruction of Saint Martin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u143	My second motion goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr Bosman has another question on the previous motion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yeah, I'm gonna come on this motion, 'cause it's going really fast. I believe that agreements have been made and all these have been recorded. The money's invested. The possibilities are all furnished. Is Mr Kuzu now saying that we need to turn that all back, reset it and then see how we can fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, that is not what Mr Kuzu says. What Mr Kuzu is saying is stated in the motion. The motion calls on the Secretary of State to consider ways of accelerating further. We both know that reconstruction must take place quickly on Saint Martin. I think we can agree on that. My question to the Secretary of State is to speed that up further, so that there is no delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u147	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u148	I think this is pretty cheap. The monkey is now easily placed on the shoulders of the Secretary of State, while Mr Kuzu does not indicate how he sees it. We have laid down the responsibilities with the World Bank in order to prevent it from becoming a political game. Mr Kuzu is turning it into another political game. I'm sorry to hear that. Then he must also state that the World Bank must speed up and not the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u149	I believe that yesterday and today during the interruptions I made it clear that my party and my group are not concerned with political games. This point is far too important for that. It's about rebuilding an island that's been hit by a huge hurricane. The last thing we have to do is you-baked about political games. I'm not used to that. What I'm asking for is very clear. Indeed, agreements have been made with the World Bank and between the countries. We see after a year that it's just going way too slowly. Then I think it is very legitimate to ask the Secretary of State to speed that up. That's not cheap, but it's necessary as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u151	The second point concerns human rights. The International Affairs Advisory Council already found that this should actually apply to all countries within our Kingdom. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the International Affairs Advisory Council points out that human rights conventions signed by (and thus before) the Kingdom of the Netherlands only apply in practice in the European Netherlands;]] [[whereas this threatens a division of human rights within the Kingdom, which, according to AIV, also puts the international credibility of Dutch human rights policy under pressure;]] [[calls on the Government, in good and respectful consultation with the Caribbean Netherlands, to draw up the standard roadmaps for the implementation of each (human rights) treaty for all countries of the Kingdom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u152	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the contribution of the members of the Chamber in second term. A number of questions have been asked. I'd like to answer that first and then give the appreciation of the motions. The first question was from Mr Van Raak of the SP. He wondered how it could be that when Saba's airport was out of service for a while it is already in use, so we could see on all kinds of movies it was so busy with the ferry. The answer is actually very simple. As a result of the fact that the airport was out of service, the Ministry of IenW has subsidised this provision for a period of 28 days. So it was cheaper to travel by ferry. That means that a lot of people have taken advantage of that. IenW used this pilot, this temporary situation, to see if there could be a definitive connection in that way. That has yet to be evaluated. As you know, the Minister of IenW is going that way with me and the Secretary of State for SZW in January. Then we will look at this and then we will see whether this can add something structuralally to the accessibility of the islands. Mr Bosman was quite clear in his analysis of the Corallo case. He said a few things about that. He also asked whether it was not time to invite the Prime Minister of Saint Martin to the National Council of Ministers. As you know, it is always possible to invite Prime Ministers of the three countries, who have a standing invitation, in addition to the Minister responsible, who is present at the National Council of Ministers. But I would not like to wait for that, I say in the direction of Mr Bosman, because I have spoken several times with the Prime Minister of Saint Martin and with the Minister of Justice about the fact that this law enforcement is of great importance and that more needs to be done. We have just had a whole debate on this. A number of you have held all kinds of reflections over the past eight years in the second term. A longer term than I've experienced on this subject. In fact, everyone's conclusion is that far too little has happened and that much more will have to be done. I'll share that. I will continue to appeal to the Government of Saint Martin. It is also good if you address this issue in your contacts with fellow MEPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u154	Very briefly, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u155	A very short question. The bill goes straight to Saint Martin, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u156	The bill goes to Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u157	Yes, Mr. Corallo's expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u158	See, that's a clear amount. So that won't be the problem. I understand Mr Bosman's point, but to pull all these loose ends out of that statement now and then to put it away in that way... I have stated once again in the debate what responsibility lies with the country. If I may, I would like to go into that later, because these accounts must be paid in time. It's like a traffic ticket. If you don't pay, it usually gets higher. And then we have the discussion about how this all works out, but I think what I said about it in the first period was perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u159	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u160	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I understand the Secretary of State says it needs to be dealt with quickly, but it's a matter of principle. Whoever arranges the damage must also pay for the damage. That's where he belongs. I think that should be the message, to Aruba, to Curaçao but also to Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u161	Yeah, sure. We will therefore put this amount where it belongs and that is with Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u162	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u163	Then Mrs Van den Berg asked what elements are in Aruba's social crisis plan, which are the economic implications of this plan. We support Aruba with knowledge and skill in this. The Minister for Social Affairs and Labour of Aruba has drawn up a broad social plan. He has asked the Netherlands to support part of this plan. I have now complied with this request, also by making available some of the Dutch remedies from the FDA fund, which has been wound up, for this purpose. It amounts to 1 million florin, approximately €500,000. These funds are used to finance UNICEF's efforts. UNICEF carried out an assessment last August to see how technical assistance could be provided by the organisation. Then Mrs Van den Berg asked about agricultural development. I would also like to refer to Mr Bosman's motion, which I will comment on in a moment. It asks whether it can assume that this will be part of the administrative agreements. The answer is yes. There's a lot of land set aside, just to stay in agricultural terms. There's a lot of potential untapped. You ask me if I am prepared to report on this. I am always willing to report on this, but we are now at the stage where we want to conclude a governance agreement. It has to be there first and then it has to be worked out. Practically speaking, therefore, this year will not produce any substantive reporting. Once again, I will come back to this in the context of Mr Bosman's motion. As soon as further steps are visible, of course after that administrative agreement has been concluded, I will inform the Chamber. That does not mean that all the agreements and actions contained in them are being implemented immediately. Saba has been allocated the funds from the regional envelope for agriculture. It's a million euros. There's no administrative agreement underneath that. We're gonna see if we can do it in a similar way. Of course, agreement has been reached on this within the framework of the regional envelope. For Sint-Eustatius you will receive a progress report in November, in which also the subject of agriculture has a place. Then the issue of the importance of good communication on Bonaire about governance, so that people in elections get a good, or no, what is the right choice? (b) to make a conscious choice. The question is whether this will be stimulated and supported in any way. I have already indicated that we are working on training for administrators and politicians, and that our ministry is now working together with the Caribbean Netherlands Department and its communication department, as well as the public bodies on an information campaign for the island council elections. We did that in 2011 and 2015. The aim is to promote turnout, of course in a Caribbean context, i.e. partly with media other than in the European Netherlands and in different languages. It is, of course, up to the political parties themselves to present themselves and profile themselves as party politics. That's up to them; I'm not going in there. We do want to show that it is important that these elections take place and that people are going to vote, that there is a representative turnout, especially in view of the plans on Bonaire about the governance agreement that we are about to make. Mrs Van den Berg asked whether the cabinet would be prepared to include the structure and organisation of public enterprises in the cabinet's response to the Council of State's information. She pointed out the problems of appointments, in short, the governance of these companies, which was not always clear and on which discussion had taken place in the last period. This information from the Council of State focuses on the coordinating role, both here and in the Caribbean Netherlands, and not on the structure of public enterprises and governance. This is, of course, a problem that has to be solved for several reasons. When it comes to public participation, dividend policy is not clear. It is not clear where exactly these revenues will end up. That's more about financial supervision, FinBES and the role of the CFT. I intend to make this part of the governance agreement. It is an important subject, but it does not fit in with that information question to the Council of State. We intend to agree to this with Bonaire's board and island council in the governance agreement. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. The first motion is that in part No. 15 of Mr De Graaf, who asks the government to serve the interests of the people of the Netherlands, of which you have the deed and to ensure the departure of the other countries from our Kingdom. That last point is not going to surprise Mr De Graaf. I have already responded to this in the written reply. We think it's undesirable, too. So I must discourage this motion. Then there is the motion by Mr Bosman, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Raak, Mr Diertens, Mr Kuzu and Mr De Graaf. 16, which asks me to put the LVV in order, to include agriculture as a priority in the administrative agreement and to consult the Ministries of Finance and LNV to involve the effectiveness of the agricultural service in Bonaire in the planned interdepartmental policy research in recent years. I think we've said enough about that. I share those concerns. The operative part, which says "calls on the Secretary of State to put the LVV in order," is a little too direct for me, I must say, but I assume that this means that I use my influence to achieve that. But, of course, it is first and foremost a responsibility of the board. Your request to involve this in the intended ibo, the interdepartmental investigation of Kingdom relations, will be brought to the attention of the chairman of that ibo committee. They're independent, though. So it is not that it is followed one-on-one, but I think it is important enough to address this element, which has involved so much money, which has been going on for so many years and which keeps coming back to the debates, in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u164	The verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u165	If I may read the operative part in such a way that I can see that direct line of order that I must put the LVV in order, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u166	We may have misplaced some commas, but we are being asked to include the reform of the LVV and agriculture on Bonaire as a priority in the governance agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u167	It's one sentence, okay? Yes. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u168	Third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u169	That's the motion in part No. 17 members Özütok and Van der Graaf, in which the government is asked to take stock of whether an adjustment in the Personal Information facility can be arranged to include lifeless children in the basic administration that takes place on the islands. I think it's a nice idea. I'm also admitting that I'm conducting that reconnaissance. In the end, especially for the countries, there is a responsibility of their own. I want to bring that to your attention. That's what I'm telling you. Also, on the basis of what I derive from Mrs Özütok's contribution, I can leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u170	Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u171	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u172	You may also take over the motion if no one objects. I'm just trying to think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u173	I'd like to take her too. I'm looking at the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u174	I can go with that. I think it is very important that it should happen, so if the Secretary of State promises to take over, I fully endorse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u175	Anybody mind? No? Then here's the thing... Or at least, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u176	Then there is the motion by Mr Özütok and Mr Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u177	You're going to the motion in part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u178	Over the next three years, in addition to the resources available in the specialist departments, the government is asking for an impressive list, as stated above, to allocate additional EUR 1 million annually to the Kingdom's relations budget. That's an uncovered check. There is also an amendment on which I have already given an opinion. It will not be surprising that on the basis of that, I must advise against this motion. I have already explained the substance of the argument for this in the debate on the amendment. Then the motion to part No. 19, the motion "First Salute" by Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman. As has already been said, I think that is a sympathetic motion. The support of Saint-Eustatius is important. Mr Van Raak has extended that to all the islands; okay. I would like to leave the judgment here to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 20. There are so many names underneath that they fell off the paper when copying. So I'm not going to name them all. However, as far as Members are concerned, it seems to be a unanimous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u179	Almost the whole room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u180	This motion calls on the government to provide the Council of State with information as soon as possible and to present it to the Chamber, so that no time is wasted in making improvements in the coordinating role. Well, look, "as soon as possible": of course. Speed is important here. Sure. But that cabinet response must also be carefully implemented. So if I may read her in such a way that "as soon as possible" does not mean "a stamp on it and immediately forward it to the House of Representatives," but that I can also look at the substance with the colleagues in the Cabinet, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 21. This motion calls on the government to work for alternative funding in the event of exhaustion of budget 2019 and also calls on the government to ensure enhanced coordination. I told you, there's a lot going on. I also said that I would be appealable if there were problems, precisely because I think the issue of children's rights is extremely important. That is why I asked UNICEF to look into the real situation with children in the Caribbean Netherlands. So, if I can read the motion like that, it can also get judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 22, by Mr Bishop. This motion calls on the government to make every effort to reach an early solution to these problems, in consultation with the government of St.Maarten. These are the problems surrounding prisoners and also to provide cell capacity in the Netherlands for a longer period of time, now that good cell capacity is in surplus in the Netherlands. At least the latter is not correct. I understand now that Mr Bishop had already crossed that out. Okay. It wasn't right either, you know. I must say that I still find it a rather complicated motion. It has in it that there is some kind of shared responsibility. And there isn't, because it's a matter of country. The motion sounds nice, but every cell in the Netherlands that we make available other than what we have done in the context of the hurricane and the damage that has occurred, of course, costs money. We're already short on guards, guards. So it's not like we have any capacity left. That suggests the operative part a little bit. We have provided assistance to improve the situation on the ground. Much has happened there, even since the report of the Committee of Inquiry. So with the operative part as it is, I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u181	Let me give you a brief explanation. We joined the Netherlands when the need came and the housing was not in order. But the latest report indicates that housing is still not in order. I hope that the next report indicates that this situation has improved considerably. However, the intention of this motion is that as long as it can be accused of being inhumane, we in the Netherlands must do everything in our power to ensure that the situation improves and, on the other hand, ensure that the prisoners are properly housed. If necessary, we will take care of this for the time being. That is the intention of the motion and certainly not to assume responsibilities. On the contrary, they stay there. We're just covering our backs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u182	But let's get back to the facts. I note that we have been taking over prisoners for over a year in relation to the damage caused by the hurricane. And the criticism I have heard in this Chamber today is precisely that there has been too little and too slow work on the part of Saint Martin, despite the help we have provided. It must be clear that the assistance we have provided in this area is finite. We also discussed this with the Minister of Justice and the Minister responsible for Saint Martin. The situation has improved. A number of measures have been taken to improve social security, security of guards, as well as the conditions under which prisoners are housed. Then we must return to the normal situation, where the country is responsible. So no matter how sympathetic I find Mr Bishop's commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u183	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u184	Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mr Kuzu, who calls on me to see how the reconstruction of Saint Martin can be accelerated. He can talk to me on his own. However, I find it difficult to say that only 10% of the Dutch 550 million was spent through the trust fund. Actually, that's not right. Apart from that, the percentage of what is spent is not saying anything about the extent and speed with which things happen, because you need preparatory activities to implement the complex issues I was talking about. The real costs come later in the process. It also suggests that we could easily accelerate even further. We made a deal. We have a Steering Committee. We do everything in our power to ensure, with respect for the rules, that the money doesn't lead, but that it ends well. I am concerned with this observation. I think it's a sta-in-the-way, because it suggests that a percentage expresses what you can already do. In this way, despite the fact that it sounds to me as an encouragement, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u185	I can, of course, reformulate the observation. But if I taste the vote with the Secretary of State, at least he agrees with the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u186	Yeah, I hope I radiate that, too. Not that I can really change things right away. We are working daily to see how we can do things quickly: fast, good and sustainable. I'd like to see that combination. If you add that to the operative part and adjust the observation, my judgment would be different. So it's not just about speed. It is also about quality and what effects we achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u187	I think Mr Kuzu is prepared to amend the motion. Then the motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u188	Then the motion to part No. 24, in which Mr Kuzu asked the government, in good and respectful consultation with the Caribbean Netherlands, to draw up the standard roadmaps for all the countries of the Kingdom. There are actually two things mixed up: the Caribbean Netherlands and all countries. Those are two different entities or quantities. Apart from that, he anticipates the cabinet response to the AIV opinion. I attach great importance to that advice and also to a sound response. In this connection he runs for the music with all possible direction of solution. I'm not saying it couldn't be, but there may be other directions. Perhaps Mr Kuzu could continue this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u189	I suggest that we at least hold this motion, but that I continue to hold it until the cabinet's reaction is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u190	At the request of Mr Kuzu, I propose his motion (35000-IV, No. 24). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u191	I think I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u192	I think so, too. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-7.u193	We will be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank everyone: the staff, the Secretary of State, the MPs and the authorised minister and the deputy authorised minister of Saint Martin in the Chair. I'm closing the meeting.
