ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Law in connection with the revision of the rules on multiple collusion in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u2	There have been six speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Van der Staaij. He will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you, Madam President. There are a number of rules in the co-regulation of the Code of Criminal Law on what is actually a fair penalty if someone has committed multiple crimes. The aim of that arrangement was to prevent a massive accumulation of punishments. My group shares the idea that it is indeed necessary to prevent people from being punished for, for example, two human lives for 200 years. That doesn't make any sense. But how do you deal with it when it's not about that kind of absurd situation, but about several crimes with a proper repetition? The government says about the bill we are talking about today, that it does not bring world-shattering changes to criminal justice, because it has only a limited scope. But it does offer the opportunity to punish more severely when it comes to repeated crimes. The government says that the increase in the penalty ceiling reflects the social views on the seriousness of the repeated crime. My group shares this point of departure and the need to be able to punish repeated crimes more severely and not to say too easily: in the case of multiple crimes, you are eligible for a kind of reduction. That is what my group shares. It is now the case that the total sentence should not exceed one third above the highest penalty limit in the case of simultaneous prosecution of multiple offences. In the event that a person is individually tried and punished for more offences, that coincidence shall apply mutatis mutandis. The problem may be that for that new crime a person can actually be imposed only a very limited extra penalty; and that for a sometimes quite serious crime. The SGP therefore welcomes the government's intention to do something about this. The government proposes to raise the standard of one third above the penalty to half above the penalty limit. Since we are talking about this matter again and about the principles that apply, I would still like to hear from the government and first of all from the Minister how he defends the system of 'limited cumulation', as it is called. We do this accumulation, this accumulation, after all, in the case of fines. There it is not seen as a problem or injustice. What is the justification for the fact that such punishment occurs in the accumulation of offences? The starting point for the SGP is that it is not fair and even unjustified if a person who is ultimately facing a serious offence can hardly be punished because he already has to serve sufficient other punishments. The penalty room must remain serious for every new crime. Does the Minister consider that, under the present legislative proposal, there can never be the case that a person is eligible for punishment, but that there is virtually no room for that, because of the maximum amount that the law represents here? The original proposal contained the obligation to split the sentence as much as possible by crime. That's been taken out. We understand that reasoning. At the same time, it is a pity that it is no longer possible to understand how a penalty has been imposed and how this so-called collusion regime is working out. Does the Minister see any possibility of promoting in practice that there is more justification for this? We are also somewhat left with regard to taking account of the first conviction under the proposed Article 63. Two persons who are at the same time tried for the same offence may still be subject to a different penalty on the basis of this provision, depending on the penalty imposed on them in a previous case. Doesn't that mean that for someone who has received a lower sentence in a previous case in practice there is a much wider possibility of punishment than for someone who has received a higher punishment in an earlier case? Is that even desirable? Mr. Chairman. Several amendments have been tabled. I await colleagues' explanations and the Minister's response to all these various amendments. I myself am announcing an amendment to the effect that a sum of short sentences should not lead to a much shorter sentence. Anyone serving two separate sentences of a year should spend a total of two years in prison, you'd say. But when that person sits out those two sentences, suddenly the conditional release scheme comes around the corner. The consequence is that I am referring to Article 15, fifth paragraph of the Penal Code, which is that he is only a year and four months old. So two unconditional sentences suddenly become paroled for a substantial part. Actually, we don't think that's desirable. That is why we propose in amendment that, when calculating the duration, the undesirable effect of the conditional release regime should not suddenly be allowed to enter into force. In the case of two or more sentences, the unconditional part of the sentence must be added. Only if conditional release was already possible for the individual penalties will this be taken into account. In concrete terms, this means that two penalties of one year will also be added up to two years. In the case of an unconditional penalty of one year and an unconditional penalty of two years, only that penalty shall be subject to the calculation for conditional release. Mr. Chairman. This amendment will be distributed in due course, because it has already been decided to submit. I think it's still somewhere in the pipeline right now. This is also an explanation of the amendment we have tabled. Mr. Chairman. Locking up. Anyone who aspires to a career in crime must also bear the consequences. The commission of a crime must be punished as soon as possible. Anyone who commits a crime twice must be punished more. For those who continue, a more severe punishment is in place and not so much a reduction. That is, in our opinion, a demand for justice. Similarly, we will weigh the various amendments to this bill and the legislative proposal itself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mr Van Dam now has the floor. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u5	Today it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u6	Today it is. Probably tomorrow, too. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 14 October 2011, the Amsterdam Court of Appeal sentenced a person for rape, hostage-taking and fornicating acts. The facts were committed in April and July 1996. They were never resolved until, as a result of new techniques in the field of DNA research in 2010, the defendant could still be prosecuted for the various facts. Then the situation arose that the judge was disabled in imposing an adequate penalty. Because as the officer then calculated, there were only four years and three months left to impose those terrible crimes. Next, the judge did what is often the idea that judges do not do so. He acted decisively, by putting Article 63 more or less into effect on the basis of a broad interpretation. Later this was punished by the Supreme Court. That's why we're here today. The law needs to be amended. Mr. Chairman. In dealing with crime, the chance of getting caught may be more important than the measure of punishment. In my own career as an officer, I've heard very few suspects say that they've let their actions be determined by the measure of punishment. But if the chances of you getting caught are substantial and criminals actually experience it, maybe something will change in their behavior. That is why we have recently proposed to add more control powers to the Arms and Ammunition Act and the Opium Act, precisely in order to increase that chance. We'll come back to that later. Doesn't punishment mean anything to you? Oh, yes, I do. And especially for the sense of justice of the victims. I believe that this is the essential reason why this bill is now in place. You'll be told that for the facts that have been done to you, the defendant will only get poodle punishment. With the increased opportunities to detect older capital crimes, the abolition of limitation periods for serious offences and, above all, with the increased importance we attach to the rights and feelings of victims, the justification for a clearer measurement of penalties has also increased. Because the judge is at the end of the day, we, as CDA, are convinced that a proper balance can be made between the interests of suspects and victims, and thus of society as a whole. Mr. Chairman. There are two issues at stake with regard to this bill. First of all, to raise the penalty ceiling for multiple collusion in court cases. You can discuss it, but after taking note of all the reports and considerations, we as the CDA Group can agree to the increase from one third to half above the highest penalty limit. In view of the general nature of our criminal procedure, we cannot accept the total release of the maximum penalty. The second aspect, which I would like to highlight, concerns the functioning of Article 63 of the criminal law. There's more to that. The bill now means that the judge will have to take into account only one irrevocable conviction when determining the maximum sentence: the first irrevocable conviction in time following the date of the execution of the event to be tried. As a CDA group, we have sympathy for this solution, but it does lead to a number of questions and dilemmas. First of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u8	Mr. Van Dam, I'm just looking for a logical moment to interrupt you, because Mr. Van Oosten of the VVD wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u9	This is a perfectly logical moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u10	I'm gonna break in right now. Mr. Van Oosten of the VVD, you have an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u11	Let me come back to the previous point, where Mr Van Dam almost said between his nose and his lips that the CDA is not in favour of releasing the penalty limit. That is why I would like to put the following question to Mr Van Dam. You yourself gave the example of the situation surrounding that cold case: can you imagine that the law that is now being proposed and which the VVD can support as such can create situations in which the judge should still have more freedom in order to impose the punishment that appears appropriate and serviceable to him? As an example, I would like to mention four rape cases. For one rape case, a person can get up to 12 years. With this bill, the penalty for four such cases will be up to 18 years. Maybe there's a judge who says, "I wish I could have done that a little higher." Can you imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u12	Yes, I can imagine. That will follow from the rest of my input. I just want it to depend not so much on the nature of the crime involved, but on the defendant's attitude. If I may, I will come back to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u13	I'm looking forward to it. I do wonder, however, and perhaps you would like to take that with you. How does that relate to the statement you just made and on which I spoke? You said that we are not in favour of abolishing such a penalty limit. But maybe I don't understand anything yet. I'll find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u14	It's a good thing you said that. My comment on the abolition of the penalty ceiling relates to the ceiling currently proposed in the event of multiple overlapping. There is now a maximum of one third on top and that goes to half, but we are not in favour of going to 100%, for which I believe a number of parties in this Parliament are in favour. That's what I wanted to say. I shall come back later to the protective effect of Article 63. I can imagine that, in some cases, we are not as generous in applying this operation as this legislative proposal states.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u15	Okay. Please continue your speech. You would have stayed on a list of points. You said "first," and then I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u16	I must say that I was so in my story that you really had to get me out of it. I think I've had that first point. The second point concerns the question of what is the first irrevocable conviction, because that is the danger of some kind of injustice. I know from my own experience that the determination of the first irrevocable conviction can be quite arbitrary. That provision makes a great deal of difference for the future punishment measurement. Suppose someone has several facts on his judicial documentation, namely a shoplifting and a robbery, or theft by force. If that shoplifting was first assessed by the judge, there is considerably more room for penalty measurement in a later conviction than when the robbery is first on the conjecture state of the person concerned. At the same time, it can be out of the ordinary arbitrary which case is first assessed: only sending a report can determine when a case is brought before a court. So that is the question I have for the Minister: would it not be much fairer not to allow the first irrevocable fact but the most punitive irrevocable fact to determine how the judge should deal with the multiple coincidence? That is the highest penalty, but it would do the most justice to the intention of Article 63, namely to prevent disproportionate punishment. By regulating it in this way in the law, legal certainty for suspects is also much more at stake than if it only depends on the accidental agenda of justice. I promised Mr Van Oosten that I would deal with the following subject, which certainly plays in cold cases. These are matters in which the defendant himself has chosen to remain out of the hands of the justice system. That is, of course, the right of suspects, but does that mean that the person concerned deserves too much mercy from Article 63? Once again, the intention of Article 63 is to promote as much as possible that justice brings matters together at a hearing and comes to a single conviction. In practice, a lot of work is being done, especially in the case of revolving door criminals. But if suspect himself does not see the importance of this, for example by not cleaning up in time or not reporting in time, should the court be placed in a position to artificially redefine the criminal record of the person concerned? Should the operation of Article 63 not be based mainly on the cases of a suspect known at the time of the trial with the police and the judiciary, and not on unknown cases? Would it not be wise to resolve it in such a way that the court only has an obligation to apply the rules of multiple collusion with regard to the facts known and that he has the power to apply Article 63 in the case of new and unknown facts? If we did it that way, we would also come seamlessly close to the solution used by the Amsterdam court in the case that led to the criminal case. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. During the discussion of this proposal, all kinds of amendments and proposals from the wings of the House of Representatives will be on the table, even at the last minute. This bill has an extensive start-up and treatment. I find it difficult if we suddenly, last minute, have to deal with and assess a number of amendments which are very important to the very essence of our criminal law. I would suggest to the President that he choose, if necessary, to deal with the second term at a later date. I'm sure I won't be popular with that proposal, but I think we should be careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u17	The Chamber shall decide whether the second term should be held at a later date. We can see what your colleagues think about that at this stage of the debate. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Mr Groothuizen speaks on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The judgment Oude Kijk in 't Jatstraat will be an understanding for many generations of lawyers, although the intriguing name may be more familiar than the content; at least I had forgotten it. I read the title once again in the wretched report of the WODC, which is the basis of the bill we are discussing today. In doing so, the preparation, I must confess, also brought back some nostalgic memories of old tutorials and pluralized collections of judgments. But, Mr. President, I won't bore you with my memories for the rest of my life. After all, today we are discussing an important legislative proposal to amend the regulation of the multi-annual co-operation. The question is how to deal with the maximum penalty if someone has committed several isolated offences, for example if someone has committed multiple home invasions or a hostage situation or rape. On the one hand, it is a rather technical subject on which there are differences of opinion in science and practice, but on the other hand it is also a question of principle, namely what is an appropriate punishment. That is a question in which the necessary emotion also plays a major role. Mr. Chairman. It will not be surprising that D66 believes that when a sentence is imposed, the judge should be allowed to make an appropriate assessment. It is the judge who has studied the file and has knowledge of the person and personal circumstances of the suspect and it is the judge who has heard and has been able to weigh the views of other trial participants, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the defence and the victim. Moreover, that court has experience in other cases which are more or less comparable to the case before it at that time. Through this combination of training, knowledge and skills and the handling of many cases, judges, I think, build on that difficult to define, but as far as I am concerned, very sensitive concept of craftsmanship. I think you should give that craftsmanship some space. It is the legislator who has to decide which penalty limit is acceptable and within it the judge should be free to determine as much as possible a proper penalty. Against that background, I'm looking at this bill. The existing system of collusion limits the court's jurisdiction to one third of the crime at risk of the highest penalty. In a single case, Mr Van Dam also mentioned this. The result was a case before the Amsterdam Court, seven years ago, in which a suspect was convicted of nine serious offences, if I counted it correctly. The problem was that, in the meantime, this man was sentenced to 15 years and nine months in prison for very other serious acts in the 1990s. Therefore, the coincidence led to the imposition of a maximum of four years and three months on suspects for those very serious old cases. I do not understand the seriousness of the facts and the sense of shock in society and, of course, the impact of these facts on the victims. That is why the court chose not to apply the collusion rule, but it was called upon to do so, and I understand that once again by the Supreme Court. As a result, this issue ends up in this Parliament today. The WODC's report shows that practice is generally well out of the way with existing co-operation arrangements. The number of cases where there are bottlenecks is actually very limited. That's because in practice the judge rarely imposes the maximum penalty. If you steal a Snickers, the maximum sentence is four years, but fortunately it is never imposed. The number of bottlenecks is therefore limited, but sometimes these bottlenecks do play into very serious and very visual issues. It is therefore a good thing that the legislator allows the judge to make an appropriate choice. In essence, the Minister proposes to increase that room for justice by increasing the penalty ceiling from one third above the ceiling to half above the ceiling in the event of multiple coincidence. This gives the judge the room to apply customization in cases where this is necessary. My group believes that this is a justifiable choice, but, like Mr Van Dam and other speakers, I do have a number of questions and they are mainly about Article 63. The second part of the legislative proposal concerns the adaptation of Article 63. That provision lays down rules for the maximum penalty measurement if a person has committed multiple offences which are not dealt with at the same time. In practice, this article is used quite a lot. I believe that everyone will agree that we must strive for simultaneous trial. That is much better for the suspect and much more efficient, but in practice it sometimes fails. Sometimes because the D.A.'s office fails to bring cases at the same time, which it could have done. Sometimes also in the cases of the oldcase cases because suddenly there is new information that has not yet been known which allows an old case to be tried. The provision in Article 63 then ensures that a person is not worse off by dealing with cases against him or her at different times. I think that is a good starting point. By the way, I agree with Mr Van Dam when he says that it should not lead to anyone getting better off. It should have a neutral application in this respect. In general, Article 63 does not seem to cause a great deal of problems in practice, as we read in the study of the WODC, but in some cases I am thinking in particular of those coldcase cases. These are usually serious cases, such as life crimes and serious cases of violence or sex committed years ago, but can often only be resolved now because there are now technical means available to clarify such a case. It is therefore difficult to explain to society that people can get no or much less punishment, purely because it was a long time ago and the possibilities at that time were more limited. As I said, the problem is also limited in numbers, but it is serious. It's reasonable to assume that we're going to see this more often. Due to the progress of technology, old things can probably be solved more often in the future. There is therefore every reason to settle this issue properly. A number of articles have been proposed. I must admit that I find both paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of Article 63 of the bill difficult to read. I do not think that the Council for Justice and the Netherlands Association for Justice is very fond of this solution either. I wonder at first whether this proposal really solves the coldcase problem, or whether there are still examples of situations where there is a problem and a coldcase case is only going to be symbolically involved in a previous sentence. In my view, that is what the Minister is trying to say by "solving the penalty." Can the Minister answer that? Can he indicate whether he still sees examples of situations in which this proposal is causing problems? Then there's another problem. Mr Van Dam also pointed this out. The proposed paragraph 2 of Article 63 seems to lead to arbitrariness, because why look at the first conviction and not at a later one? Let me illustrate this with an example. Suppose we have two suspects both on trial for their role in a cold case, a rape with a maximum sentence of 12 years. In the meantime, both gentlemen have also served 12 years on other matters; let us even assume that these are the same matters. The conviction was therefore imposed after the rape, which is now a cold case, was committed. One of them I call him man A got another month's imprisonment from the police judge before that sentence of 12 years. The second man was also involved in that fact, but somehow the D.A. didn't charge him with that case. In my view, this leads me to hear whether the Minister agrees with this conclusion that man A could get up to 17 years and 11 months for the coldcase case, while the other person, man B, could get up to four years. That's a weird conclusion. The District Attorney's accidental prosecution decision then suddenly has a very big effect on the penal area. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Mr President, the third paragraph of Rule 63. In it, the wording allows for the reweighting of irrevocable facts. I would like to hear from the Minister how that relates to the fact that someone cannot be tried twice for the same fact. Does the Minister see tension between his bill and Article 68 of the Criminal Code? Mr President, it is a complex matter. I have a number of questions and I think they live with several members. I also checked to see if it could be different and better. I therefore have an amendment (34126) No. 10) and let me be inspired by the suggestion of the WODC, which actually says: why don't you give the judge the opportunity to exclude Article 63 in any case? If I understand correctly, the Minister says that the problem is that you have no penalty limit at all. I can see that, too. I have tried to combine this by including in the amendment that we should limit the penalty limit to one third of the maximum amount on the offence. In this way, I hope to combine the solution proposed by the WODC with the criticisms made by a number of Members, including myself, here on Article 63. I am open to criticism, both from the Minister and from other Members, that this may not be the solution either, but I thought it was chic to table the amendment and to give the Minister the opportunity to respond. I understand Mr Van Dam's remark, which is currently on the Interrupt Microphone, that it is all a bit late, but in defence I say that I did not have much earlier time to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u19	I would like to ask the representative of D66 if he sees any possibility of including the defendant's conduct of proceedings in his amendment. I read the text. It actually gives the court some kind of power not to apply Article 63. Does Mr Groothuizen see any possibility of referring the text to the situation that the defendant never made himself known, that the case was not known to the judicial authorities when it could have applied Article 63?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u20	I'd like to see if that can come out explicitly, but actually it's already implicit. Actually, this is what the Amsterdam Court did a little bit. In my opinion, it also struggled with the question of whether there was an uneven trial and whether that could not have been otherwise. In my view, that is exactly the problem you are referring to. If someone had made a clean ship in the meantime, it would have been another case, but that is not the case. In my opinion, it is, in fact, already a bit of an implicit fact, namely that you give the judge the opportunity to exclude this from application in a particular case, and you might consider the reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u21	I'm never much of a criminal in implicit things. I think suspects and everyone have a right to have it explicitly in there. Would you object to making that more explicit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u22	No, I think I already gave the answer that I have no objection to it. I am still struggling with the question of how to do that precisely, because, as I said at the beginning, it was all rather complicated to put it on paper. Perhaps Mr Van Dam would like to think along with that. Then I'd be happy to take that with me. Mr President, I will conclude. The WODC report also makes a number of comments on Article 62 of the Code of Criminal Law. At the heart of this criticism, I believe that the pure accumulation of infringements leads to unrealistic fines and a lot of hassle. A canton judge who has a suspect in front of him who has blacked out 35 times in public transport must impose and split a fine 35 times instead of one sentence for all those facts together. I read in the documents that the Minister sees this problem and says he wants to investigate it. I also read that the Council wants to look at it for the sake of justice. That's gonna end the trail a little bit. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has actually taken up that point and, if so, how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. Mr Van Nispen, who is speaking on behalf of the SP Group, has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u24	Already in 2011 we talked in the Chamber about the legislation of the multi-faceted co-operation. Those were oral questions from Mr Van der Steur at the time. The coincidence is an arrangement which is generally not perceived as problematic by the people who have to work with it in practice, such as judges. But occasionally it leads to unsatisfactory results. Sometimes judges would have wanted to impose a higher penalty, but that would not be possible under the current legislation. A number of amendments are therefore now being proposed. In my view, these basically extend the possibility for the courts to impose appropriate penalties in individual cases. First, it is proposed that, in cases where a person is tried simultaneously for several offences, the current penalty ceiling should be increased to half above the highest penalty limit. In 1886, it was chosen that this could be increased by a maximum of one third. So the room for the judge to impose a higher penalty if it is considered appropriate is now getting a little bigger. I can understand that trade-off. Secondly, Article 63 of the Code of Criminal Law is amended: the system for the punishment of offences committed before one or more convictions for other offences have taken place. From now on, judges will no longer have to take into account all offences in order to determine the maximum penalty, but only the first sentence in which the penalty could have been determined for the offence. This change, too, has the effect, if I see it correctly, of increasing the scope for the courts to impose appropriate penalties. But, and with that, I would like to answer a question that has been asked earlier, it is quite common in practice that facts which are related and which follow closely in time are not taken down simultaneously. I would therefore like to put the question to the Commission, which is also expressed in various opinions, whether it would be unreasonable for the sentence to be determined as a starting point in a new case, which penalty would have been imposed in total if those facts had been tried at the same time. That's the way it is now. Isn't the time of the trial of facts a major part of it also a matter of chance? I would like to receive a response and an explanation from the Minister. According to the Minister, the purpose of the bill is not to increase the penalty, but to put an end to the situation experienced in practice in which the perpetrator is not punished or hardly punished after a very serious crime, because he has been sentenced to punishment even more frequently in the context of a criminal career. The Minister then says that the judge should be allowed to impose a higher sentence where he considers it appropriate, without being constrained by the current legal system without reasonable grounds. I can quite agree with the Minister on that last point. But then the purpose of the bill is still to impose a higher penalty? Let us simply call it that and not deny it in the explanatory statement. According to the Minister, the adapted regime will not in practice lead to world-shattering changes, because ultimately, given the nature and seriousness of the offence, the person responsible and the circumstances in which it was committed, it is still up to the court to determine which penalty is proportionate in the specific case. That's what the SP thinks is right. Then there's the coincidence of fines. Mr Grothuizen also mentioned this. In the 2013 investigation Multiple collusion in criminal law, we read that the impression seems to exist that fines are accumulated too quickly, so they are added together, without asking whether the suspect can ever pay them. The principle of carrying capacity laid down in Article 24 of the Code of Criminal Law actually requires that the carrying capacity should be taken into account. This would indeed be investigated. My group also wants to know what the state of the investigation is. After all, we know that debt is a criminal factor. Yeah, fines have to be paid. That is, of course, the starting point. But we shouldn't be too rigid about that. It must not, of course, be at the expense of the safety of all of us. So the question is: what is the state of the investigation? Finally, Mr President. I told you how the SP looks at this bill. We understand the proposals. Raising the penalty ceilings gives more room for the judge to impose an appropriate penalty. But what I think is much more important is that we work to increase the chances of getting more cops on the street, getting more detectives, getting better training. In short, it is important that we really ensure that the Netherlands becomes safer, so that we really do justice to the interests of victims and thus ensure justice and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Mrs Helder has the floor. It represents the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u26	And not just today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u27	That's right, not just today. Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u28	I had 15 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u29	That's right. It also says here that you have 15 minutes of speaking time. Let's adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u30	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that several colleagues have already said something about this, I will stick to my introduction, as I wrote it down. We are discussing today a bill on the regulation of multi-annual co-operation. This is the case where a person has committed several offences and those offences are brought to justice at the same time. In these cases, the maximum penalty for all these offences is now limited to one third above the highest penalty limit. Punishments cannot therefore be added to each fact. The limitation of a third party also applies if the offences are not brought to justice at the same time as they could have been. Let me give you an example. Someone has already been convicted of a criminal offence, but is later tried for another fact committed before the aforementioned conviction. The legislative proposal therefore amends the regulation on co-operation. First of all, we have heard it before here, and the current ceiling is raised to half above the highest penalty limit. If a person is tried and punished separately for several offences while a joint procedure would have been possible, then the proposed ceiling of that half also applies. In addition, for the latter case, for uneven trial, it is arranged that only the first sentence is included in the calculation of the penalty that can still be imposed until you are at the ceiling. In determining the penalty for the new event, we call that "then' the judge can impose a common penalty in which the previously imposed penalty more or less dissolves. Mr. Chairman. As early as 2009, the PVV stated, through my colleague De Roon, that the limited cumulation system should be replaced by an unlimited cumulation system. Since 2011, I have accepted this proposal from him. I kept suggesting it, too. As I have just indicated, a person who is being tried for several crimes committed by him may be subject to a maximum penalty limited by the ceiling of a third party. That is highly unsatisfactory. Let me give you the example of Robert M., who has made many victims. It was there, I believe, 82; I say it out of my head. If a penalty ceiling applies, whether that is a third or the half proposed by the government, then it does not matter whether there are 2 or 82 victims. The maximum prison sentence is limited by the ceiling. As far as my group is concerned, there is no reason for any reduction for criminals who commit serious offences. You'll get a discount at the supermarket. Despite my group's long-standing plea to remove the ceiling, which I have always supported and to provide victims with a reasonable punishment for the perpetrator, the importance of this became apparent to former Minister Opstelten late in the day. He has taken the proposal badly, because it is being increased to only half the maximum sentence. The fact that the former minister suddenly saw the point of raising the ceiling was caused by two court cases in which the judge could not but impose a low prison sentence for that fact, the judge acknowledged that even if the ceiling would otherwise be exceeded, it would be possible for him to do so. The best known example is the case of Ron P. He was sentenced to 15 and a half years in prison for the murder and rape of the victim, the name of which everyone knows, so I'm not going to do that here. Later he was also convicted of murdering another victim. That name is also known, so that's not necessary for my plea now either. But there remained four and a half years where possible to impose, because the total was only twenty years because of the ceiling. The solution of cold cases is also not served by a penalty ceiling. Fortunately, with the advanced technology, we can solve more and more cases. As far as my group is concerned, they are being punished fairly. Raising the ceiling from one third to half my group feels weak; I told you so. It is also not clearly motivated. Why 50%? Why not 60%? Why not 70%? I went back as far as possible in the Acts on the relevant article of law, which entered the Code of Conduct in 1886. Nowhere is the ceiling further motivated, not even in Acts.. I found them....................................................................................................................................................................................... So like I said, just get rid of that ceiling. It doesn't mean that judges are suddenly going to impose absurdly high penalties. And if the Minister is afraid that without the system of limited cumulation there will be exorbitantly high penalties at one time, then you have little confidence in the reasonableness of the judges. If you remove the ceiling, the judge has every opportunity to punish facts in reasonable terms and to impose an appropriate punishment. I think it's special. If my group proposes minimum penalties, that is a violation of the rule of law, and then we do not trust the judges, because we restrict the judge's freedom. Now we say all freedom, the ceiling off. But apparently that's suddenly not right again, as long as the unsub takes advantage of it. I told you, it's about serious crimes. For this purpose, only the limited cumulation system, Article 57 (2), applies. As it stands today, only serious crimes are subject to a ceiling and not to fairly simple crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u31	Thank you, Mrs Helder. Mr Van Oosten of the VVD is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u32	Exactly at the right time, because Mrs Helder puts a point where I want to ask the question. I feel like we're on the same page. We have tabled somewhat similar amendments. But I do attach myself to it, which is why I express this in the amendment on behalf of the VVD in order to distinguish the type of crime. So I say that this limited cumulation should be abolished, only for the serious crimes, and I describe them by eight years or more to prevent, for example, a theft from being included. Does Mrs. Helder agree with me? Or does Mrs Helder say that all crimes, all of which, of course, are very serious in nature, should not be included in such a form of limited cumulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u33	Mrs. Van... Mrs. Helder, I apologize!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u34	Not from the East!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u35	No, no! Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u36	No, because I have just said that, as Article 57 (2) says, it is only about the exception of the limited cumulation system, i.e. the ceiling, being applied to serious crimes. In your amendment, you do not accept that. You don't have to make that distinction; we already have that in the law. I say that Article 57 (2) makes an exception for serious crimes. You say that in your amendment: I want to get rid of that. You're gonna make it eight more years. I think you're gonna make it unnecessarily difficult. That won't be necessary. Just remove the ceiling. Then you don't have a ceiling for that category of exception, these serious crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u37	Your position is clear. Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u38	I have a brief question about that. Do I therefore understand that the PVV says that, for example, a theft, for which there is four years in prison if I am right, is not the kind of crime that can be eligible for this, call it unlimited accumulation? Or does Mrs Helder say: no, it should be possible to include this in circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u39	I'm not just saying that. That's what the law says. We can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u40	Proceed, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u41	So as recalcitrant as people usually find me, it's not because it's just in the law. Mr. Chairman. The proposal that the judge should only take into account one irrevocable conviction, in which the conviction of the new fact could have been taken into account, can indeed ensure that more punishment remains to be imposed for the criminal offence for which the judge now intends to punish the person in question. But what if in that case a conviction was pronounced for multiple crimes? It's possible. Should the judge then take into account only one criminal offence and leave the other in the calculation? If not, there will be little room for the "new fact" to impose an appropriate penalty. So again an argument to just remove the ceiling, because it makes it unnecessarily complicated. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's solution in this case is that the judge is given the opportunity to impose a common penalty. The sentence previously imposed then dissolves in the sentence to be imposed for the "new fact." So here again we are talking about the ceiling, so I say: remove the ceiling now. I just think it's pure deception. Victims think that there is a heavy penalty in their case, but they do not see that it is a common penalty, which includes a previous sentence. In order to make this clear to victims, I am not only saying'remove that ceiling', but my group also addressed the breakdown of the penalty per offence in the written questioning round. I understand that it is more difficult to impose a measure such as tbs or an isd measure, a facility for systematic offenders, but I also asked for a breakdown of the penalty per offence and not the breakdown of the measure per fact. The Minister replied that he could support the development of policies aimed at dividing out the penalties in the motivation, but that he left it to legal practice. Then my question is, are they working on it yet? Are there landmarks for it, as it's so beautifully called? If so, what do they look like? Is this being monitored? I await the Minister's reply, but I do have a motion on this point. Rounding up. As the PVV has repeated and repeated all the time, the ceiling has to be completely removed. This is a solution to all the problems created by the regulation of the multi-faceted co-operation itself that judges face in imposing a penalty. Without the ceiling, the judge never gets in trouble, and it's about serious crimes. That is why my group has tabled an amendment. Then the problem of Article 63, which I have heard several colleagues speak about, does not arise either, because it is possible for the courts to impose an appropriate penalty. And I have also tabled an amendment to include an assessment clause in the law, because if it turns out that the legislative proposal does not solve the problems in practice, then I would like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u42	Thank you, Mrs Helder. Just hold still, because Mr. Van Dam from the CDA has a few questions for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u43	I do not quite understand what Mrs Helder means by saying that there would be no obstacle to imposing the maximum penalty for both offences for those lesser offences, i.e. the non-heavier ones. Does she mean that the current punishment of the Dutch judges is such that you will never get into trouble? Or does she mean to say "what" and I wouldn't understand that it is apparently already a provision in the law? Because I don't read it in the law. Maybe she can point that out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u44	I didn't say there was a provision in the law. I said that you can read in the law, in Article 57 (2), that there is an exception for serious crimes that there is a ceiling, because they do not want that unlimited accumulation there. So I am not saying that the law has a provision for less serious crimes. I'm saying there's just a penalty limit. If there's more than one fact, there's the converging department. There is Article 57 (2) which provides for a ceiling for serious crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u45	Then I am glad that I asked specifically, because I do not see it, these serious crimes. This collusion is simply a determining factor for all crimes. I can't follow you in that. If you have any further explanations, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u46	Mrs. Helder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u47	Yeah, I do. It may not be literally in the article of the law itself, but it is in the explanatory memorandum below. I noticed Mr. Van Dam had that beautiful red bundle over there. It's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u48	Perhaps Mrs Helder will be able to point that out later. We now have the final speaker on the side of the Chamber in this time limit. That is Mr Van Oosten speaking on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Every crime is, of course, serious enough in itself. But it is also true that colleagues have already mentioned that sometimes people are being tried at the same time for several crimes they have committed, several victims they have committed. Now it is true that the unsub cannot be punished for the second or perhaps even the third victim, the third rape case. That is what we call a legal term, then, that limited cumulation. A maximum of one third of the additional penalty can be imposed. This bill now increases that to half. That increase can of course support the VVD, but frankly I want to get rid of the whole system. Every victim is entitled to full retribution. I really don't see why an unsub should be able to get a discount because of his criminal behavior. It is a terrible subject for rape, but it is now 12 years in prison. Let's take the hypothesis of a serial rapist who rapes four women. For him the maximum sentence to be imposed, now, is sixteen years old. That's gonna get a little higher. That'll be 18 years. The VVD doesn't think that fits. Give the judge the opportunity to decide whether it happens is a second penalty to impose the maximum penalty for all two or three cases committed by the offender. So he raped someone twice, then he can also be punished twice, in which case up to 24 years. If this accumulation results in the 30 years being exceeded, then, as we know and wish to retain in the Netherlands, give the judge the opportunity, if he considers it appropriate, to impose a life sentence, for example in the case of four rapes. That is exactly why I have tabled an amendment. I see that Mrs Helder has tabled a similar amendment, on the understanding that I still see some differences in terms of the seriousness of the facts for which I think you should abolish that cumulation. Everything has to stay in proportion. So if someone is stealing two or three jeans, then I would like to stress that I see no reason why a judge should have the opportunity to impose 12 years' imprisonment immediately. I do not foresee that this will be the case soon, but I do not believe that we, as legislators, have to facilitate this. Then a maximum of one-and-a-half times that sentence fits perfectly. That is why I would like to make this cumulation possible only in the case of serious offences, in the case of serious crimes of violence, with a penalty of eight years or more, or in the case of crimes against morals, because they are so violent and affect physical integrity. In addition, and that is the other aspect, I do not wish to see excessive American conditions, where someone could be sentenced for hundreds of years. That's why I'm saying, "Find a life sentence." If you'll allow me, I'll finish my last sentence. Then I'm done, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u50	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u51	I hope that the Minister will respond favourably to my amendment, so that the judiciary also has the maximum room to impose the appropriate punishment. If the Minister is not in favour of this, I can hardly imagine why and what the reservations are, given that I do not want to make any proposal to bring the judge to anything. I just want to give him space. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u52	Mr Van Oosten uses rape as examples in his amendment. He says, "Don't want to steal jeans more than once." Of course, there's a lot in there. Mr van Oosten is deliberately cutting short on crimes involving a prison sentence of eight years or more. That's where he wants to get rid of that system. Are there any crimes between that very simple thing he doesn't want it for, and that very serious? Because if you're gonna make that cut like that, I'd like to know what's going to fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u53	For example, sex crimes. On fornication is six years, and I'm making an exception for vice. So in violent crimes of eight years and over and over, and in vice. Moreover, I am recommended if I have to give a different interpretation to that. At your service, I'd like to say. But this seemed to me to be a clear distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u54	Then I'd like to quote Robert M.'s example. That was real vice. Mr Van Oosten does not seem to think that this is so serious that it must also be taken into account when removing the ceiling. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u55	No, on the contrary, because the amendment I am proposing should introduce that cumulation for a violent crime of eight years or more and for sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u56	Last time, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u57	Now Mr Van Oosten is pulling in sex crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u58	Yeah, but that's what the amendment says. And that's what I think you asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u59	I think he did that in his input, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u60	Yes. But if you give the example of jeans on the one hand and rape to make your point of eight years, then I think: what else is in between? Then he called morals, and then he says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u61	I thought for myself, let me keep it simple. Perhaps Mrs Helder has not quite succeeded in that. I want this to be a serious crime of violence. For example, what is also a crime is a theft, like stealing jeans. I think that's a mistake, and you should punish it. But of that I say: it is somewhat disproportionate if you can also be sentenced to 12 years in prison after stealing three jeans. I'll make an exception for all sex crimes. I'd like to take that underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u62	Mr. Van Nispen was earlier, so it's his turn first. Then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u63	It's kind of the bombaby with which this proposal is presented. Mr Van Oosten even says that he cannot actually imagine that the Minister is opposed to this. Let me ask you a question about that. I am not in favour of this, and I will explain later why, but Mrs Helder's proposal actually has much more logic. For offences can accumulate indefinitely, and I am not in favour of that either. You are proposing that the serious crimes should also be combined, but there is an intermediate category that is falling. Then I completely miss the logic. Then why is that the best solution? Then why is that just?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u64	I think I just explained that. I quote the example of theft. There's a four-year sentence on that. Personally, I find it disproportionately difficult for you to go through with that in the proposal I put forward. So I'm gonna make that distinction at eight years or more or when it comes to morals. For me, that feels like a very logical distinction. Perhaps not for Mr Van Nispen, but I am glad to see that at least you are able to bring some enthusiasm for Mrs Helder's ambode, which I recognize a lot. At least that's what I thought I understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u65	No, I like to understand the logic. So I would like to know where this proposal comes from. I find it strange that you say that offences should be stacked, that they should not be allowed in the case of minor crimes and that there should be a limit on them, and that we should once again give all the maximum room to the courts in the case of serious crimes. Then I find Mrs Helder more consistent. She'll just trust the judge to do that. For that is what Mrs Helder says in this debate: the judge must then impose appropriate punishment. My question is this: which professor, who approached Mr Van Oosten, said that the government's proposal was wrong and that something should be done about it? What kind of judge has reported to Mr Van Oosten who says that we are not achieving the current maximum levels of punishment? What prosecutor says, we don't have the room to impose the right punishment? Or did he come up with this all by himself? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u66	I didn't talk to a professor about this. I didn't talk to a judge about this. I didn't talk to an officer about this. I could say, at most, former officers. But with that, I would put colleagues' words in my mouth, which I do not want. I am a legislator here, you are a legislator here, we are judging a law proposed by the cabinet. I think it is essential that, when someone has committed a crime, when it is punishable and when someone makes more than one victim, any victim can also be fully entitled to retribution. I want my job done when a judge has to judge if anyone's guilty. A judge has to decide what punishment he imposes. Then I would like to have given that judge the opportunity to impose the most severe punishment if he or she seems right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u67	Is it really gonna be a while, Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u68	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u69	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u70	We are indeed legislators here and we can come up with proposals here. That is the right of Mr Van Oosten. I just like to look at what is needed in practice. Even the government's proposal does not require world-shattering changes. Mr Van Oosten is doing a great deal of work on that. I'd say, "Don't worry about raising the odds of getting caught" and do something about it. You've been in power at the Department of Justice for seven years. The performance is sad. However, you do have a proposal in the news that can theoretically impose higher penalties, which will not be used at all in practice. That is my appeal to Mr Van Oosten here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u71	I would like to make a comment on that, because that is a hypothesis that Mr Van Nispen puts down. I did indeed give a very concrete example of a situation which could easily arise. I sincerely hope that this does not happen and that it is not entirely invented, namely the example that someone raped four people. The penalty is up to 16 years. I'm having trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u72	I recognise Mr van Oosten's point that it can compete with the feeling of justice if, in fact, the repetition of very serious crimes with a huge impact on society is working so thinly in the total punishment. At the same time, I do have a question to ask him about the addition of sex crimes to the category of criminal threats of up to eight years. I understand it in terms of feeling, but I find it difficult, from a legal point of view, to pick out just one group. Does Mr Van Oosten wish to comment on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u73	With pleasure. That's because I find the sex crimes in that sense of the most violent category because they affect one's own physical integrity. For example, fornication has now been punished in the Code of Criminal Law for six years. We can have a discussion with each other to make it eight years. Then it could be included in the proposal that I put forward: crimes eight years and above. But it's been six years. That is why I make the choice to introduce the vice title at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u74	I have a brief question for Mr Van Oosten. It is good that we are trying to approach his proposal from all sides. Mr Van Oosten stresses the retribution and importance of the victims, but one of the elements of our criminal procedure is also the legal certainty that we can offer. That is a bit the qualitative way in which we also deal with the suspects of the most serious offences. I kind of miss that now. Eventually it becomes a search image for the suspect himself, which the judge eventually finds, because the brake is in a sense off. Has he thought about that in his proposal? Can his proposal still jump through that hoop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u75	Yeah, I'd be serious. If you introduce it into the law as I am now proposing in the amendment, it says that there can actually be a cumulation. In fact, everyone should know the law. I don't think a rapist has that in mind first, but still. He can realize that he can be sentenced to 12 years in prison per rape, no matter how terrible it is to have to use that word every time. If he has committed that fact three times, he knows: 12 times 3 is more than 30; that results in lifelong potential. He should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u76	I can now have a discussion with Mr Van Oosten on this, but my question was whether he had changed his mind. He did. That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u77	Mr Van der Staaij has looked up something in the Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u78	Exactly. I will come back with a concrete example because I think it is clearer for the continuation of my interruption. For example, abuse resulting in serious injury is not eight years. Why should Mr Van Oosten's reasoning not be used for repeated abuse resulting in serious injury?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u79	Mr Van der Staaij is right in his own right. I'm not saying I want to stick stubbornly to this either. I therefore believe that eight years is a sensible choice in this area, which extends to the crimes that I consider to be of the species and category, such as a theft, which I believe should not extend to that. It must be serious crimes of violence. That's what I want to focus on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u80	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs 15 minutes to prepare his response. I would like to ask him whether he would like to include his opinion on the amendments in the reply so that the spokesmen can see what that means for the follow-up to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u81	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u82	Thank you. Madam President, you do want to forgive me for having to think here in the Chamber for a moment about a quote from a film from my childhood, Mary Poppins. About at the end of it this text appears: "A man has dreams of walking with giants. To carve his niche in the update of time." In Dutch, a poet says: "I want to live in great and compelling ways!" When we talk about criminal law, a good criminal law is one of the pillars of our rule of law, the Chamber and I, of course, have the ambition to do great things. But when we do great things, we have to do them very carefully. I very much appreciate the exchange of views that has taken place this evening. This exchange of views shows that the Court is dealing with criminal law. I believe that this is also necessary in a society that has changed so incredibly in recent years under the influence of globalisation, digitalisation, a different way of living together, a different population structure and that kind of development as a result of globalisation. Then we must indeed be prepared to look at fundamental parts of the law. I think that's what we're doing with criminal law. The coalition agreement has a number of ambitions in this respect. I'd like to mention one of them. Mr Van der Staaij will rise with some happiness, because that is a thorough review of the regime in the area of conditional release. I will come to that in a moment, in the context of the discussion of the amendment. Tonight we are gathered here for the doctrine of the multifaceted confluence. This is an important doctrine, which must be able to work in criminal law, but which sometimes does not work well because of all kinds of developments, as was shown by the 2011 ruling of the court. You can hear me say "sometimes," because it is clear from all the consultations that have been carried out, but also from the WODC investigation, it is an exceptional case. It turned out that the so-called prison space, which is still there when you start to judge a very old fact that comes up, may sometimes be very small. Anyway, the multiple confluence is an important doctrine from criminal law. If you're going to change an important piece of learning, you have to do it carefully. You can read that in the rather critical notes that emerged from the consultation and in the opinion of the Council of State. And you should definitely do it in such a way that you don't knock out the rest of the house or burden it unnecessarily. You will gradually hear from my tone of voice where my concern lies. I've put in a bill for an adjustment of the multiple concord. That's two parts, you might say. One part is: we're going to increase the accumulation factor from one third to half. Put simply, half is added to the maximum penalty of the maximum penalty for more facts. The other part is: we are going to make sure that if old facts emerge, the still existing penalty space under the cumulation regime is sufficient to do justice to the desired punishment for the old fact. The interesting thing, of course, is that, by increasing the accumulation from one third to half, there is already more room for punishment anyway. And we do that again because we only take the oldest conviction; we take it with us. I am not always going to define these terms, because we know what we are talking about. I immediately answer the question of the Member Van der Staaij: why the oldest conviction? In principle, that must always be a fiction. Let's be very honest, because we are going to try that older fact, which, for example, dates back to 1996, only now, in 2018, and then, so to speak, there were still convictions in 2000, 2003 and 2006. I'm gonna go over the statute of limitations. The fact that we deduct that oldest conviction from 2000 is based on the fiction that that fact could have been known for the first time at that time. That's the simple reason behind it. In addition, there is, of course, somewhat presumptuously, the point that you can assume that a repeater will gradually be subject to a higher penalty for subsequent convictions. As a result, the 'deduction', so that oldest conviction, is always the lowest and we do what is appropriate for making the penalty room as large as possible. In particular, I would like to say to Members of the Grand House and to Mr Van Dam that, of course, it is still up to the judge to decide what he is doing with that area of punishment. But in any case, in the case the Amsterdam Court had to rule on, the court would have a courtroom of some magnitude. I've taken the case of the threat to the mayor of Gilze and Rijen again. Let me take it on the sidelines in the rest of my speech. That's where the sentence room ended after the entire cumulation deduction of older convictions at two months. The nice thing is that the penalty room in this new system will end in 21 months. That's a really big profit. With the arrangement now in place, we are absolutely improving the multi-level system for situations where an old case is still emerging and proven. I really want to put that out loud. I think that's a good thing. And I think that we, also bearing in mind the quote of Mary Poppins and the quote "Great and dragging I want to live" was, from my mind, that of Marsman.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let us not go into the more fundamental discussions that we may have about penalty ceilings in general or about how the conditional release regime would work. As a result, we would be imposing unnecessary burdens on this carefully-balanced new multi-faceted system. I do not want to sound too heavy, but we have to realise that criminal law is a very fundamental part of our legal system and therefore of the rule of law. We conducted a consultation at the Dutch Association for Justice, at the lawyer's office and at the D.A.'s office. We also received advice from the Council of State. You have seen that in my proposal I take the opinion of the Council of State very far-reachingly. I would almost say, in order to stay in criminal law, that we denaturate to the bill that we have submitted to all those consultation parties if we were to bring in all those fundamental points. In particular, I am looking at the former prosecutor here in the Chamber. This was my introduction. I will reply to some of the questions that have been raised in a moment. Then I come to the amendments. But I want to admit it honestly already. It seemed sporting to me to do so at the beginning, so that Members of Parliament have plenty of time to think about this. I would like to tell you now that I am going to give the opinion 'dissuade' to all the amendments. I am really doing so on the basis of what I have explained and on the basis of the importance that we are doing this right now. I am about to make proposals for when we can discuss these other matters in principle, such as the issue of sex offenders. So let me say something about the sex offenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u83	Before you do that, let us give Mr Grothuizen of D66 the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u84	I was just wondering what the best time for my comment was. The Minister has already said what he is going to do and has already said a number of things in the introduction. He referred, among other things, to the opinions. I hope, however, that the Minister will immediately or immediately comment on the fact that some of these opinions are not at all so positive. Both the Judicial Council and the NVvR are particularly critical of taking the oldest conviction on their own and not the other, of course, quite critical. They echo, in my view, the criticism that I and a number of other Members have voiced. The minister seems to shop selectively in the advice that is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u85	I said that the opinion of the Council of State was largely taken up. I think that's true. But I did not say that we have taken all these advice completely and without hesitation. I have just said that this is what we have submitted to the parties for consultation. By the way, as you know, the Dutch Association for Justice has ruled on three parts. One part they immediately took over. They didn't like another part, and that's also deleted. The third part was not accepted either, namely the oldest judgment issue, which has been taken over. Why do I insist on maintaining the oldest judgment principle? There are two arguments for this, as has already been said. In the first place, in theory, you pick up the first moment when condemnation of the oldest fact, the even older fact, could have taken place. Secondly, this is precisely what my predecessor Ard van der Steur's first question was about, namely that the penalty area should be increased. I can tell from all the reactions of your Chamber that we agree on that. Once again, and that concludes my answer to this question, I have said that we have submitted the improvement of multi-level cooperation arrangements for consultation and advice. I would argue that we leave it at that. I will come in a moment, when the questions are answered, with suggestions for occasions where we can deal with those other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u86	I think it is right that each amendment should be accompanied by the basis for your opinion. Mr Groothuizen finishes, and then we go back to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u87	Why the Minister proposes what he proposes is clear to me. I support that basic idea. I think there is even broad support for this. But the fact remains that you do something crazy when you introduce something with such a proposal that can have arbitrary consequences. That is what I, the NVVA and the Council say for the case-law. This brings me back to the beginning of the Minister's plea, in which he said that he attaches great care. In my view, this care should also be taken to say in the legislation that it does not matter if you happen to have received a month for a police judge as a first sentence or a very long prison sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u88	I would like to go back to the point: the care is that we have offered this subject for consultation in a draft bill and then submitted it for advice. Detailed input has been provided, including by the Council of State. We also discussed it in detail in the Chamber. I was there through my predecessor, I'll say. Now we're in the next round. I urge that we continue to focus on this subject. I fully understand that there is a single element in the proposal that some Members of Parliament would have preferred to do differently. But that doesn't have to stand in the way of care. That is in itself just how we discuss this proposal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u89	I suggest you answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u90	First of all, I would like to address the issue of sex crimes. I just need to see if there's any real question about that. There's going to be a revision of the vice title. I fully understand what Mrs Helder is saying with the example of Robert M. The feeling of justice gnaws there anyway, so to speak. Mr Van Oosten, too, has clearly, at least as I can tell, put the finger on that incorrigible sex offender. I would say that we should be able to hold this discussion with each other and also if we were to revise the title of vice. In this case, I would really like to argue in favour of this and refer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u91	Excuse me, Mr President, but I'll need a little more clarification from the Minister. What can I expect? I have already asked a number of times, whether or not through the procedural meeting, when the modernisation of the title of vice comes. Recently, I asked the Minister what it actually said. Now, both Mrs Helder and I are going to take the Minister along with us in order to introduce into this law, albeit in several amendments, that the penalties can be imposed entirely on sex offenders of this kind, depending on the number of offences committed. And then the Minister says, "Please let me deal with that next time." I find that complicated. What can I expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u92	There are a few things. You know from me that I will soon be returning to the 'child abuse' section and everything surrounding it. This is due to the fact that I have made a spearhead of fighting everything that is happening online, because that is really starting to blow. In addition, there will be the revision of the vice title. I'm gonna have to hold you guilty for a while when exactly that's gonna happen. I'll get a note for that and I'll tell you right away. However, it will not be long, because in 2020 we will be working on the revision of criminal law in a very large sense. This means that the title of vice will take place well before that time. I don't know the exact date. If it's okay, it's digital now and it's going to be in the consultation for the summer. Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u93	I'm gonna finish with this, Mr. Chairman. Can I assume that the revision of the title of vice therefore includes the abolition of the limited cumulation? That limited accumulation is now before us. The Minister wants to broaden it a little, but as far as I am concerned, we simply have to abolish it by making it a total accumulation. Is that the Minister's proposal coming to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u94	No, you can't tell me what that's gonna look like right now. The subject you are raising will certainly be dealt with in this context. I do not want to say 'I invite you', because you do not need me for that, but if you do not think that this point is sufficiently addressed in that new title of vice, I think it is right that we should have a substantive debate on it. Then we have had a consultation in which this has actually been discussed. In any case, I am told that the penalty level and the systematic nature of the penalty are clearly assessed and taken into account in the proposal for consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u95	I suggest you continue with the other questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u96	I would like to say, through you, to Mr van Oosten and Mrs Helder, because that is important, because it is not the case that I want to send them in with the proverbial stuff. That is absolutely not my intention. My intention is that, with a majority in the Chamber, we should get a good legislative proposal on the multi-annual co-operation. Then it has to go to the First Chamber. We know that there can always be very fine discussions of principle. I would also very much like to get through it as soon as possible, so that we can get on with it. In the meantime, I'm saying there's gonna be a consultation on sex crimes before the summer. Then you can take note of it. From that moment on, we can discuss the matter in substance with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u97	That is not enough for Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u98	Do you know what the point is? We are now talking about the multiple coincidence, for example in Articles 57 and 58 of the Code of Criminal Law. Mrs Helder and I are now asking for examples of morals, but it does not have to be just about morals. The Minister now suggests that, in the case of sex offenders, he is going to ensure such accumulation that all those crimes committed by sex offenders, those rapists, can be added together, so that the judge gets much more room than is currently available, and also much more room than the bill says, so that, when the judge thinks that that is wise, he can impose some things. If that's the case, I'd like to hear it, but I'd like to know if it is. That is the proposal that Mrs Helder and I are actually submitting to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u99	I'm gonna repeat myself. We're gonna put this into consultation. I just read it a few minutes ago. You can assume that punishment, systematicity and everything will be dealt with in the proposal for consultation. Let me say to you that we will then, of course, continue to discuss how we are going to fill in the increase in penalties for these offences. It is not for nothing that I am underlining these crimes, because I myself started to make them a spearhead to at least fight everything about children and young people in this area. In addition, Mr Van Oosten said that this is, of course, more than just sexual offences. I shall come back to that later on in the discussion of the amendments. I would first like to answer the questions, if that is all right with you, Madam President. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Helder and Mr Van Oosten raised the penalty ceiling. I am sorry that this is going to be a bit of a chorus, but that too is a very fundamental question that we are not going to answer too easily here on a Wednesday evening. Let me say first of all that there is no country where there is no pre-imposition or post-imposition ceiling in terms of the legal system. There are no arguments at present to leave that point of departure. The WODC report does not give any reason to do so. The legislator also has a responsibility to standardise penalty measurement. We really need to keep an eye on each other. Of course, we can say at some point that we are going to double certain things and the like, but it must also fit in with the standards and the relationships with regard to what we do with other crimes. That's a very complicated discussion. I am telling you quite frankly that I would feel very flattering if I were to have a substantive discussion with you about this without having consulted in detail with universities, institutions and the judiciary. The way in which penalties are currently imposed must not be forgotten either. There is a need for clear standards in practice. The same goes for the justiables. A number of questions have been asked about Article 63. Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van der Staaij have asked whether it is impossible for the new regulation to leave virtually no room for punishment in a case. Yes. It is therefore possible to impose a common penalty with absorption of the old penalty. A joint sentence allows the courts to better reflect the seriousness of the offence to be tried in certain cases. This may therefore be the case if, by way of deduction from the old sentence, the room for punishment is such that no appropriate penalty can be determined. Will the coldcase problem be solved? In view of the fact that this also concerns his amendment, I would like to say the following to Mr Grothuizen, President. The complex thing is that the term "cold case" is not currently in our Code of Criminal Law. It has, of course, gradually become something that you could give a definition of. Suppose we want to distinguish between coldcase situations and other old situations. By the way, I honestly think that 99 out of 100 cases are cold cases, because you can't imagine a detective having been smoking cigars for 25 years and saying: oh, wait, I have another case out of two thousand! It must of course be the case that there is no distinction between the case that has just arisen and the old case. Someone may have withheld something for all kinds of reasons, but criminal law should not go into that. We must punish the fact and give a limited discount for the fact that something can only be tried now. I would like to stress that this proposal is designed to reduce the reduction considerably. Think about what's left of the mayor's threat: that goes from two months to 21 months. That's more than ten times as much. Then Mr Van Dam asked whether you should say, with regard to unknown facts, that it is a matter of competence and not an obligation. I understand his idea, and I was initially charmed by it, but I am not in favour of it. It is, of course, always a question of unknown facts, otherwise something should be tried as a multi-faceted coincidence, and if that fact becomes known later, it really must be done as if it were to be tried with the regulation of multiple collusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u100	I would like to say a few words about the previous point. I heard the Minister say that we should reduce the discount on the later trial of a fact. I agree with him, but I would say: why discount at all? We also have something like general prevention, don't we? According to my group, the starting point is that you are not committing any criminal acts at all! So why discount for serious crimes at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u101	Our legal system is based on the system of moderate accumulation. That's what this bill assumes. I've shown you that we're raising it on both sides. The effect of this is that such a fact can now be punished more severely, for example for that woman who has been silent for 25 or 20 years about that old fact and has hoped that it will never come to light. It could be that we would say together: we really want to get rid of that whole principle of cumulation. I'm sorry, but I'll get back to the same chorus. That is a very important discussion. I'll say it a little bit bedridden, but then we're actually gonna get something like in America, with that gymnast who was sentenced to 200 years or something like that. That's the U.S. legal system. I think we all see that in its size it is a caricature in the direction of society, and it should not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u102	I would ask the Minister to be a little more concise in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u103	Yeah, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u104	Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u105	I do not think the judges in the Netherlands are going to reach a sentence of 200 years at all. Anyway, the Minister and I disagree on that. I also hear the Minister say that we must have a very substantial discussion about this, and I agree with him, but I would like to point out that this fundamental discussion has never been held. Since 1886 this has not happened: nowhere is that ceiling motivated. It has just been said that we want to prevent a disproportionate penalty being imposed. No one who dared to put on what was disproportionate. No one has discussed it. No one has argued it. Neither is the Minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u106	I would like to argue the whole principle of cumulation, but I promised to keep it a little shorter. The WODC research report says that legal practice is very good with the cumulation regime. The fact that we're going to take it from a third to a half is really our wish. It is your wish as a legislative power and I fully support it. It's not from legal practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u107	Mrs. Helder, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u108	I hear the Minister say: from us as legislators. Well, not from my group, because I have tabled an amendment on it. I'll go into it a little further in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u109	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u110	Yes, that was clear from Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u111	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u112	If you allow me to stay with Mrs Helder for a while, she asked why 50% and not 60% or 70% had been chosen. In practice, the choice of plus 50% provides a very clear, visible and easy-to-use starting point in the penalty measurement. In addition, it is associated with other cases in which the Code of Criminal Procedure applies an increase of a third or a half. These are the rates of increase, if I may put it that way. I think I have already answered the question about the penalty ceiling. Mr Van der Staaij asked why the original proposal on the division of a criminal offence was deleted. This has been done in the light of the opinion of the Council of State. Judges take all the space to split up punishments in the context of the criminal motivation. It is very important that victims are given insight into the punishment imposed for the crime they have been victimized to. The Council of State and the Court of Justice stated in their opinions that in cases where victims have exercised their right to speak, the necessary attention is already being paid to penalties and justification. The Council of State adds that it has no added value in practice. So that's why. Why is full cumulation permitted in the case of fines and not in the case of prison sentences? That has to do with how you apply the principle of proportionality. In a system of pure cumulation of custodial sentences you have no guarantee as the principle of proportionality, because then you have an unlimited accumulation of punishments. Apart from that, I also told you that at some point you could theoretically get a conviction of up to 140 years or something like that, which, I understand, might be technically useful in about a hundred years' time, but that aside. Mr Groothuizen asked what I am going to do about the WODC's criticism of pure cumulation. The fact that pure cumulation in the case of fines is considered reasonable is due to a different method of mitigation. In fixing the fine, the court must always take account of the defendant's capacity. I think that our sense of justice says that there is not much reason for the accumulation or moderation of fines on a party that has made a great deal of money with the offences, or has very much to bear. Mr Van Nispen asked about the state of the investigation into the principle of carrying capacity. The implementation of this has not yet been established. The initiative is in case law. These are concrete points of reference which can give more direction to the application of the principle of carrying out multiple fines. The decision-making process is in the hands of the judiciary. I shall now come to the amendments. I would like to begin with Mr Van der Staaij's amendment. As I said, the coalition agreement agreed to thoroughly review the whole of the vi-scheme. In the light of this, what Mr van der Staaij proposes should be discussed in detail, but could also be discussed in detail. So, in view of that, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u113	This is about the amendment to item No. 11 from Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u114	I raised a similar amendment two years ago to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Decisions and it was said: does this no longer fit in with the multi-faceted collusion? Now the Minister says: does it no longer fit in with conditional release? Of course, it also has to do with conditional release, but it is precisely with this coincidence that it is necessary to ensure that the conditional release scheme enters into force. Isn't there any logic to look at it in the context of that coincidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u115	I can imagine that Mr Van der Staaij is doubting whether the Minister of Justice here is doing a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u116	You're gonna be on a leash?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u117	Yeah, I was thinking more like second-hand car dealers and stuff. At least he's thinking, "What the hell is going on with me?" Look, this really requires a fundamental discussion. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that we would undertake a comprehensive review of this arrangement. So you know that. I really think that we should involve all aspects of the vi. If it all goes well, then this bill is now passed by the House of Representatives and you can use it as a background or reference framework. The amendment tabled by Mr Helder to item No. 7 I apologise for not doing so in order.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to stress to Mrs Helder that I very much understand her point where she also raised the Robert M. issue. I hope that together, also in the context of the debate on child abuse and also after the new title of vice has been discussed here, we will be able to go further, because I understand this very well. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Helder's proposal to report on the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice within five years of the entry into force of the law. I do not really see at the moment what this would be necessary for, assuming that we come up with a balanced, good new arrangement of the multi-faceted one. I think it would be much more sensible to carry out an evaluation at the moment when we have actually thoroughly reviewed the whole criminal justice system, but that will take some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u118	You therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u119	Is that more in the content or in the duration, the five-year period that I have included? I have no difficulty in prolonging this evaluation period, because I think that the discussion, which the Minister also says we should conduct regularly, is essential. I understand that this bill deals with exceptional cases. Then I don't think it's a problem to stretch the evaluation period a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u120	Can I walk down the hall for a very short time and then come back to this in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u121	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u122	Mr Van Oosten has the amendment to item No. 9 submitted. That's what I'm telling you. Once again, I very much understand the fact that Mr Van Oosten is calling for attention to be paid to the punishment of systematic sex offenders, people who actually make sex crimes their profession or habit, that is enough shock. That is a very undesirable fact. I believe that we should discuss this point in principle in the revision of the law on vice. I have just received a small message, so I would like to add that in the case of those sex offenders, the systematic character of the term "the term is also used in child pornography in criminal law" could form a basis for a substantial increase in criminal penalties. Then one could think of something in the sphere of doubling the penalty limit if the sexual offence in question is committed out of custom or occupation. I wanted to make the gesture to say this out loud to Mr Van Oosten, otherwise he will not hear any commitment from me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u123	That still leads to a question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u124	I am pleased to hear that last addition, because it shows that the Minister wants to punish these sex offenders very severely; at least he wants to give the judge the room to impose the strongest possible punishment on them if there is reason to do so. But I do have one more question. The Minister says: please give me time to incorporate that into a law, so that we can discuss it on the substance. But what is there really to discuss at this point? These are people who do the most gruesome deeds. The only thing I have in mind is to shape our legislation in such a way that the judge gets the room to put people like this in jail, not only after the minister has presented that new law of morality to the Chamber and so on, but much earlier, namely after this law, perhaps, was passed in the Lower House and in the First Chamber next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u125	Let me say this. I sent a letter to the Chamber last week, on World Women's Day. I have, painfully enough, given a catalogue of what is being done to women, especially young women, in the areas of sexting, exposing, grooming and that sort of thing. I have said that I want to modernise the description of the crime and so that we can also process a next digitization stroke or whatever hit with each other. Then I'm talking about the crime scene description. Then you're gonna talk about the punishment and the like. Again, I think we should do this right. I understand that we will be a little further, but in the meantime, the police and the prosecutor are really not sitting still with regard to what is happening now; let that be very clear. In the meantime, this multi-faceted combination gives me a lot of extra. As far as I am concerned, we are really going to work to ensure that this revised law on vice comes to the Chamber as soon as possible. We want to put this together very systematically, so that there is a sensible standard, which is useful in legal practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u126	I'm short, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u127	Yeah, let's see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u128	I'll show you, Mr. Chairman. Do you know what else my purpose is? That we create the opportunity to lock up people who commit serious sex crimes for life. That is not up to me, it is not up to the Minister of Justice and Security, but that is up to the judge to decide. I would have liked to have created that space in the law. The minister says don't do that now. To be honest, I am not convinced of that, but can I assume that the Minister creates that space in the bill he is going to submit to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u129	I am going to consult a bill that modernises the law of morality in all kinds of ways and in which I have certainly repeated it a number of times now, if that is a good plurality, the measure of punishment and the revision of measures of punishment will be discussed. That's what I told you. I have even given you a certain commitment about the profession and the habit. You should be looking at doubling. I think Mr Van Oosten knows that for a month or four years now he has someone in me who is extremely punished and severely involved in this. But we must do it well and we must consult with the right parties so that we do not have a huge increase in our criminal law that experts say 'yes, but that is not enough for society', while for the first time since 1886 we had renewed things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u130	So the amendment in part No. 9 has been dissuaded. Then there is the amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u131	Yeah, that's the same thing. For that, too, what I have explained. I explained that I certainly sympathize with the point, but I explained why you should join the oldest conviction. I also said that you shouldn't distinguish whether something is a cold case or not. At least those are not legal terms at the moment. You just have to say, here's someone whose old fact has surfaced. Or an "oldest fact," as I would say. We then refer to the next oldest fact as a deduction, for the reasons I have already explained enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u132	I would have missed that real explanation, so I'm going to try again anyway. If I understand the NVVR and the Council of Justice correctly, that oldest fact can sometimes be somewhat arbitrary. I do not like speaking for other Members, but I think that was also Mr Van Dam's point. That is why I had given the example of two cases which are actually comparable in almost everything, with one exception: one Mr. is the first to be sentenced as the oldest fact in the terms of the Minister of Justice to a one-month prison sentence for a police judge fact, and the other to a very severe sentence of imprisonment. Then you can see that in those two cases, which are basically the same for the rest, there are huge differences in the limits to be imposed. I find that problematic. This is also problematic from a legislative point of view. I don't really hear the Minister react to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u133	Look, here's one more thing. The first conviction, however well, as I have already said, would have been the conviction where normally, if it had been just known, the facts would have been tried together. Firstly, there is no arbitrariness in this reasoning. It remains theoretical, but you are evening out the situations of unequal and simultaneous trial. If you look at the two differences: one person went to the police court for bicycle theft and another person may have been in court for rape. If the oldest fact is deducted from the even older fact, it will depend for a while on what that even older fact means and the prison space of the person convicted of the rape will in principle be smaller than that of the person convicted of the bicycle theft. That is because, for example, the person convicted of rape has been in prison for two years. That is what our legislator has, in any case, intended to do in a certain way and it is therefore in line with the principle of moderate cumulation. That's a principle. If we want to leave that entirely with each other, I think we should talk very fundamentally about criminal law. But as long as we maintain that, the first sentence is the most equitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u134	Mr. Grotehuizen, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u135	We are making progress, because at least the Minister says: you are right that it leads to strange differences in the outcome. In my view, the problem is precisely that these differences in outcome can be caused by accidental decisions in the prosecution process. In the case of Mr. A., who is brought before the police judge and is charged for a month, the district attorney has been active and has put it in session. And in the case of Mr. B., where he could have done it, he didn't happen to do it, or he sent the case to another parquet, and he didn't. I think it's exactly that coincidence that makes this out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u136	First of all, I didn't use the word "weird." Because it's not. I didn't use the word "coincidence" either. We begin with the starting point of our law, the starting point of moderate accumulation. We're gonna slow it down a little bit, 'cause we're gonna pull it up to a half. The penalty space is therefore increased because the deduction is limited. I'm going to the two men, the bike thief and the rapist, with the second oldest fact. Let's just say the oldest fact that gets out is a robbery. That's serious, too. Then we go to the robber who was then bike thief watching. Then we say: who has a few weeks for the bicycle theft... Do you have to sit down for a few weeks? No, that might be a little overzealous. I see Mr Van Dam gestures that it is two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u137	No, he says it's two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u138	So that man served two weeks for a certain kind of theft. It therefore receives a small deduction and leaves a larger room for punishment in relation to the robbery. What the judge then does with all the circumstances of the case, we're not going to talk about that. With the rapist who first committed the robbery, there's less room for trial. Why is that? Because that rapist may have been in prison for two years, and because we are under the law to find that there is a certain moderate accumulation. That's how it's expressed. That's the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u139	For the sake of clarity, what is your opinion on the amendment to item No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u140	That's what I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u141	Yeah, I'm just asking for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u142	I had already said a little bit about all the amendments: I do not recommend them. That is really for reasons of principle. I understand them, but there are still plenty of times when we can talk about these issues in a wider context in the context of revisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u143	Thank you, Minister. I'm gonna take a look around and see if there's a second term. I see the members are nodding. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP. Oh, one second. Mr. Groothuizen has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u144	I'd like to request a five-minute suspension for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u145	Then we'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u146	We are beginning the second term of this debate. The first speaker is Mr. Van der Staaij. He shall speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u147	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. He has made it quite clear once again why he thinks the bill as it stands is a good bill. I agree with him that the legislative proposal represents a desirable improvement on current practice. But at the same time, of course, we can see that the fact that this matter is now on the agenda, because there is still more racket, more room for manoeuvre in the measurement of penalties, even in the case of repeated offences, raises the more fundamental question: what is the reasonableness of the principle of moderate accumulation? If there are examples such as repeated sex crimes, then I still find it a little thin. The reasoning in the documents and also now of the Minister is still very concerned on the one hand with 'in practice there is no need' or on the other hand: yes, but we do not want total unrealistic sanctions of two lifetimes or 180 years. That's true, but there's still plenty of room in between. There are also cases in which my group still feels: is there really no need for more room in practice than is currently provided for in the legislative proposal? As far as my own amendment is concerned, the Minister says that this can be dealt with again in the case of the VI scheme, the conditional release. However, I still believe that I have the right, particularly when it comes to the system of co-operation which brings the vi-scheme into force, to call for this modest amendment to be made in the context of this legislative proposal. I therefore maintain my amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u148	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. The next speaker is Mr. Van Dam of the CDA. I forgot to propose about two minutes in the second term. I won't hammer right off in two minutes, but let's keep that target time. Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me point out that I will also try to stick to the original bill. I share the view of the Minister that we have a limited cumulative system. We support the Minister in his position. Another comment on the motion by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u150	That was an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u151	Sorry, an amendment. You're right. We are going to look at how we have dealt with this in the past, also in the light of the forthcoming plan in the coalition agreement. I have pointed out that I have difficulty with the concept of "the first conviction." I understand the Minister's systematic approach, but I know from my own experience how incredibly random the criminal process can be. The other side is that if I do what I propose, it is equally unsatisfactory that it should actually be in the hands of the suspect which is the first moment of condemnation. I shall therefore follow the Minister on that point. That is different from the point I raised about the cold cases. Of course, it is not in the law, but it is in fact facts that were unknown because of the defendant's attitude and did not come forward until later. I just figured out how to do that. I am still considering putting in an amendment. I would ask the Minister to reply in writing at a later date, before the vote, because I can imagine that I would like to take a bit of that up with him. That amendment should be reflected in the text of Article 63 (2): "The judge may disregard paragraph 1 if the involvement of suspects in those facts has only become known after that irrevocable conviction. In such a case, the court shall impose a prison sentence of not more than half of the maximum amount imposed on that fact." I'd like to make that proposal. If necessary, I will also distribute the text in a moment. In any event, at the end, I would like to stress the procedural aspect of whether it is possible for the Minister to respond in writing if necessary, if he is unable to respond to it in the second period, prior to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u152	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Mr Groothuizen, speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. Also for Mr. Groothuizen about two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I forgot to say that I asked the Minister the questions I asked on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I have corrected this omission. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions, although I must say that on some points I found the answer somewhat thin. I am not going to rehabilitate all of them, as the previous speaker has already said, but certainly when it comes to what exactly is the first conviction, I think there are a number of things that the Minister has said from the point of view of practice, which is also represented here in the Chamber. That requires me to look, together with Mr Van Dam, at the text he is proposing, which I believe is in line with an amendment I have already tabled, to see if we can give it a better interpretation. I also agree with his request that we should have an extensive response, as far as I am concerned, in writing, because I think there are a number of points of concern here. In my view, this is also the point where the Minister has to admit that, in a single case, a coldcase case can still end in the conclusion that there is no or little room for punishment. In my view, too, Mr Van Dam's proposal, which is in line with the proposal I made earlier, could provide a solution. I therefore believe that there are two possible problems that can be solved in the current proposal and that they can perhaps be improved. I also remember that we didn't make this up all by ourselves, but that it eventually came out of the box of the WODC, which also had long thought about it. So I think that requires a careful response. One final question. In the first place, I have considered the unlimited accumulation of fines in the event of infringements. I drew the Minister's attention to the fact that he himself was charmed by an investigation. I didn't actually hear the Minister say much about that. I thought, "Am I wrong now?" But I took a look at the note on the report. On page 18, the Minister answers questions from the SGP Group. He actually says: yes, I think it is a good idea to look at that research. Then we never heard from it again. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what is going on with this investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u154	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. Mr Van Nispen has the floor now. Mr Van Nispen speaks on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u155	The SP can support the main thrust of this bill, as it extends the possibilities of the judge to impose an appropriate penalty in concrete cases where there are now legal obstacles to justice. The SP was not particularly charmed by some of the amendments that were tabled. I still have some doubts about the D66 proposal and the CDA proposal that will be worked out. We therefore intended to support the proposal as it stood, but that was not, frankly, the argument put forward by this Minister this evening. I actually think that the Minister is avoiding the debate and the discussion in substance. For example, by referring the questions of the VVD Group to the debate on vice legislation, while this evening it is about the multi-faceted coincidence. For example, by referring Mr Van der Staaij to the debate on conditional termination, while his questions and his proposal also deal with the multiple coincidence. It is not that I wanted the debate on the multifaceted co-operation, because we are quite satisfied with how that works now. But I do think that we should be able to have that discussion, and that we should not, because in 1886, it was decided that something is as it is, now we should say: well, well, then we decided to do so, and that is why we are not discussing it now. So I do not think that the Minister's response tonight is very strong and I do think that this can be improved in future debates. Finally. I noted in the first term that the debate on multiple coincidences is very interesting and that we absolutely have to do justice to victims, especially to victims of serious crimes, but that it is much more important for the SP to work on increasing the chances of being caught, by providing enough detectives and for agents on the streets. In this way, I believe we are ensuring greater security in our society and, in my view, we are doing much more justice to victims, we are ensuring justice and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u156	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Van Nispen said where he says that it is a pity that no answer has actually been given today to the questions on vice legislation; there will still be a legislative proposal, and not on the subject of conditional release, because that is what is in the government agreement and is also being parked for a while. Today we have the debate more about the multi-faceted coincidence, which cannot be separated from these two subjects either. So I am very sorry about that. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. Then, of course, I would like to use them to explain them to my advantage. I did that as a former lawyer, and I'm sure the Minister will recognize that! I have heard the Minister say: change the system, we must do so carefully so that the rest of the house is not unnecessarily burdened. That's what's happening here now. Think of the different situations raised by colleagues in the newly proposed Article 63 of the Code of Criminal Law. We do not yet know about the law of morality either, because there will be a new proposal. Then it will be a bit of a patchwork, while today we are talking about the multiple coincidence of the Code of Criminal Law in the case of serious crimes as a whole. I have also heard the Minister say: we must leave space as high as possible. That was the reason for the increase in the ceiling by half. I think that is two arguments which do support my amendment, namely that the ceiling should be removed. That is simpler, more logical and clearer. There is room for the judge in all the situations that this bill is trying to regulate. Then, Chairman, let's finish. I announced a motion. The Minister says that the Council of State sees no added value in the breakdown of the justification of the penalties imposed per fact, because that is already happening. I can see that added value in the interests of the victims. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal did not provide for a breakdown of the penalty per offence;]] [[noting that the precise implementation of the policy aimed at dividing up penalties in the case of multiple collusion is left to legal practice;]] [[Considers that the separation of the sentence by the judge could lead to greater understanding of victims, survivors and society by giving separate attention to each victim and the seriousness of the offence committed against that victim;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor whether the policy to be developed by legal practice is actually implemented, what it looks like and whether it is actually applied,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34126-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u158	Mr. Chairman. It's not in my character, but I'm a little disappointed tonight. Because where the Minister does say that he understands very much the amendment that I have tabled, which seeks to extend the possibilities for judges to impose appropriate penalties on, for example, very serious sex crimes, the Minister says: yes, unlike the legislative proposal that is now before us, I would nevertheless refer the Member of the East to an upcoming legal procedure. Colleagues for me have already said it. We are now talking about what we then legally call "multiple coincidence." There is now an opportunity for the Minister, if he really understands the proposal I put forward, to embrace it, to submit a letter of amendment himself or to say to Members of Parliament: please go along with the amendment. The Minister doesn't do that. I don't understand, and frankly, I find it disappointing. But I do have one more question. I asked in an interruption whether or not I can rely on the Minister's willingness to introduce in concrete terms the possibility of a life sentence for people who systematically quote the Minister: systematically committing sexual offences. That is what my amendment could lead to in theory. That's also what I'd like to come up with. Not because I want to lock everyone up for life, but because I want to give the judge an opportunity to have that opportunity, if he considers it to be of service. So please give a concrete answer from the Minister to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u159	Thank you. I'll take a look at the minister how much time he needs. He can respond immediately. That's good. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u160	Madam President. I shall begin with the second term of Mr Van der Staaij. I thank him for the compliment that the bill is a good bill. Mr Van der Staaij has also used these words to make my argument, Mr Groothuizen, rather thinly on a number of points. Honestly, I don't have much of a defence against that either. Because it is a matter of a few rather fundamental questions in criminal law that have been raised in this course of dealing with the multiple cases. As far as vi is concerned, I would like to say once again that your point can be dealt with in full. I will also give it to Mr Dekker, who will present and defend that bill here. I admit that, because I am at the risk of you, Madam President, blaming me again. Indeed, if you and I are speaking on such matters in principle, we should also make a fundamental argument. I say to Mr Van der Staaij that his argument is not embedded either, and I do not blame him for that, because we are only talking about the multiple collusion throughout the system of vi and of what the vi in all the various situations of condemnation that may arise. So we have to say to each other that we are indeed holding the discussion on this fundamental issue on the part where it is discussed. I have said the same with regard to the sex offenders, but I would first like to comment on Mr Van der Staaij's further contribution. Because he asked if there is no need for more space in practice. No, I told you that again with reference to the WODC, which in his research indicates that in itself the legal practice does not consider that much more space is needed. Also in the various consultation opinions you will find that, for example, the Dutch Association for Justice says very clearly: remember, that 2011 ruling is really an exceptional case. I hope I have answered it again in the second term. I would certainly like to respond in writing to what Mr Van Dam has proposed. It is a variation on Mr Groothuizen's theme, I say in all honesty, but I don't blame anyone. At least I take the thought seriously. That is not what I am talking about either, apart from Mr Groothuizen's verbally frowned eyebrows about the thin answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u161	Does the Minister think it is possible that that written reply will be available within a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u162	That's definitely possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u164	There is also a choir nodding in a place Mr Van Dam cannot see, but I can. If you get a bad review, then of course you have to take it for what it is and learn from it. So I will certainly take Mr Van Nispen's words to heart, as I always do, and I am not going to deny that I have even said out loud here: I do not think that we should have that discussion now, because then we are going to have far too little fundamental relations with her. So the only term in the review I would like to fight anyway is that I would avoid the discussion. It is not a question of avoiding the discussion, but I think it is really wrong that we should have such a thin discussion on some fundamental issues of criminal law on a Wednesday night... Is it Wednesday night? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u165	It's Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u166	...to finish on a Tuesday night. I would return to Mrs Helder's amendment in the second term. On second thought, I can leave the assessment to the Chamber after five years. Mrs Helder said once again how sorry she was that I did not have the final answers to the issue of vice legislation this evening, but, as I said, that will happen soon. I would like to say to Mr van Oosten that in the first instance I made a very clear statement on the doubling of the number of sex offenders who make it their profession or habit. I would also like to show Mr Van Oosten some kind of commitment on that point that we are not simply saying again 'don't call us, we'll call you'. Very clear. But I don't think I should go beyond that either. We really need to work out that bill and wait for the consultation. I do not think that I should promise or say to Mr Van Oosten things that might well be different after the consultation with experts. Why not a letter of amendment? Apart from responding in writing to Mr Van Dam's amendment, I can honestly see no fundamental changes which I would consider should be included in a note. Maybe this is avoiding discussion, but hopefully I won't have to explain it anymore. I would have liked that very much if it had been a more comprehensive bill, but it is limited to these articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u167	On the Helms-Burton amendment, No. You said you'd leave the verdict to the Chamber. I would also like to make that clear for the purposes of reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u168	Judgement Room, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u169	There is also a motion by Mr Helder on point No. 12. He'll come to you in a rush.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u170	I have the motion here. The motion calls on the government to monitor whether the policy to be developed by the legal practice actually comes into being, what it looks like and whether it is actually being applied. Perhaps it makes sense that this is about how the breakdown of the penalty per offence takes place in practice, to come back to you in writing for next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u171	I see Mrs. Helder nodding, so that's fine. This brings us to the end of the second term of this interesting legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-30.u172	The Minister has promised that he will reply in writing to the Helder motion on item No. 12 and Mr Van Dam's amendment, which has yet to be tabled. This will be done before the votes scheduled for 20 March. Voting on the amendments, the motion and the legislative proposal will therefore take place on Tuesday. I wish you all at home.
