ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mrs Van Den Berg of the CDA has a question to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, who is replacing the Minister for Medical Care, about the report that hospitals are likely to lose much more on claims. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give Mrs Van den Berg the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you pointed out, this morning in the Volkskrant there was a report that hospitals lost a lot more money on claims. We are very concerned about that. Of course, a patient should be able to claim if something really went wrong, because where they work sometimes something goes wrong. However, we do not want American states here. Money for care should be spent on care and not on claims and not on expensive insurance for the caregivers. We also believe that doctors and nurses should be able to do their work in confidence and not in a culture of fear of risk avoidance, which gives unnecessary care again, thus creating waiting lists and creating additional bureaucracy. Mr President, the following questions to the Minister. What explains this increase in the number of claims and the large amount of claims? Is it true that there are many claims that are not visible and are not subject to supervision? That means we can't learn from each other either. Because if we know in which hospitals there are more claims and in which hospitals there are fewer, then we can also learn from each other and the good examples. And my final question: does the Minister agree that caregivers should be able to work in confidence and not in a culture driven by fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mrs van den Berg for the questions put by the CDA Group. The article, which is based in the Dutch Magazine for Medicine, describes that the damage burden of the claims has increased significantly in the period 2007-2016. The number of claims has also increased, but somewhat flattened in 2013. In fact, the more expensive claims have increased. The first question from the CDA Group is why. There is not really a clear answer to that. In any case, researchers indicate that it is not an indication of the quality of care. So that's not what you want to make of it; it's not. For example, it has to do with the fact that the damage burden is greater forzzp's who have not been insured against it. The resulting damage burden may be greater. The level of awareness has also increased with the way in which people can file those claims. The legal change may also play a role. The Wkkgz offers more space and possibilities to actually make those claims. All of that could be possible. In any case, your concern is the following: is the increased number of claims a reason for concern that American states come here? I must say that we are still a long way from that, both in the number of claims and in the level of the claims. Don't get me wrong: it wouldn't be good if it went that way. But we're still a long way from that. What we have to do, above all, is to reduce the source of those claims. It is, of course, also something beautiful in a sense that people can claim damage when it occurs and that people can literally and figuratively make their story. Above all, we need to reduce the source of those claims. That is what is called "care damage" in policy terms. It is about mistakes, about things that go wrong in the care that could really have been prevented. That is what you must want to reduce, and it is important that we learn to do so. Mr Bruins also presented the Health-related Damage Monitor drawn up by NIVEL to the sector and asked the parties to come up with an approach to clearly reduce potentially avoidable healthcare damage as it is called. I think that is the best way to end up reducing those claims, which apparently were partly justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	And Wkkgz stands for Wet quality, complaints and disputes care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	In health care. Yeah, absolutely. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's what I'm saying for the people who don't know the abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you for this subtitle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thank the Minister for the answers. The Minister just pointed out what the letter from Minister Bruins of 20 April said about tackling avoidable mortality, including in hospitals. In October there will be a plan with concrete proposals. Is the Minister prepared to include in that approach the avoidance of unnecessary claims for damages? It's about awareness and knowledge. After all, prevention is better than cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	Sure. That plan is made by field parties, including the hospitals and the association for nurses. I'm just gonna put it this way, because I'm afraid to use abbreviation anymore. We will therefore also put this request there. We will ask them to include this observation in these proposals as well and to think about whether you can learn by learning and by knowing where things have apparently gone wrong before, prevent things from going wrong in healthcare. So we'd like to put that question there. Around October, Mr Bruins hopes to share that plan with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	Of course, it is always good to prevent medical misses from being committed. I think we can never completely prevent them, because where people work, mistakes are also made, unfortunately. We think it is important that there is an open culture in which the conversation with the patients and the relatives is made by the medical specialists and the other people working in the care sector. We are curious to see how the government looks at this and whether this can also be taken into account in the plan which the Minister has just spoken about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	That is absolutely true: where people work, mistakes are made. That's true, but where people work learning, you can at least reduce the same mistakes. That indeed requires an open culture. That requires a safety culture. You have to want to look at it that way. An active learning culture requires real openness. That's important. To my knowledge, this is also one of the pillars that one chooses. This cultural aspect is therefore also very strongly taken into account in the plan that is now under way, apart from the more medical measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. This brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
