ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 34877, provision in the administration of the public body of Saint Eustatius, i.e. the Temporary Law on the Neglect of the Mission of Saint Eustatius. I inform the Chamber that, after hearing the College of Seniors of 30 January 2018, I have decided to initiate the urgency procedure provided for in Article 56 in conjunction with Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the examination of this bill. In the meantime, the Committee on Kingdom Relations has presented a final report and proposed that the legislative proposal be considered in plenary. Therefore, the discussion of this bill has been added to today's plenary agenda. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. It's his first plenary appearance here in the Chamber. I wish him much wisdom in the performance of his duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. When reading the secret pieces last Sunday, my first association was that with the comic book entitled The mouse that roared, a story about a dwarf state that competes against the superpower and still wins. It was published in series and even filmed because of great success. Maybe an idea for later. Unfortunately, the facts give little cause for joy, and that for a situation that has been going on for a long time. The phenomenon of emergency treatment lies more in the current legislative process than in the real approach to the urgency that has existed for a long time. The fact that a committee of literal wise men was required to confirm what was already known is significant, especially for the minister responsible until recently. I wish Mr Knops every success, but even more strength on this chaotic dossier. Mr President, it has been a mess on Saint Eustatius for a long time. It's an administrative mess. The committee notes that the island is in a very neglected state, that there is administrative lawlessness, that there is financial maladministration and that the administration is turning away from the existing legal and state order. Grove and shocking job neglect, by the way, without any chance of recovery. The current administration has literally closed the road towards the Netherlands, to the detriment of the local population affected by it. By the way, delinquency is nothing new. Sint-Eustatius has actually been on a collision course with the Netherlands for a long time. In 2015 there was already a motion from the island council to achieve full self-government, and more recently a document was published with the idea of turning Saint-Eustatius into an autonomous country. I would like to draw your attention to the remarks made by Mr Van Putten, an island member, with his warning for 'blood in the streets'. The Netherlands is also blamed for "recolonization." There is even a threat to drag the Netherlands before the International Court of Justice. Those are certainly not things that fit in with a harmonious relationship. The alleged abuses were sufficient reason for Minister Plasterk to put the island under enhanced administrative supervision in 2015. The Steering Committee had to draw up a plan of action on the basis of an indication, with the achievement of objectives "Improving governance and financial policy' by 2018 at the latest. That's now. Mr. Chairman. This didn't work out at all. The explanatory memorandum is rather brief on this point, where it is noted dryly that "it has not come to fruition of the plan of action'. Since then, there has been a truce. The island leaders completely ignore the Netherlands and Minister Plasterk does not go beyond a letter dated 21 May 2017, in which he warns "that the directors are fully responsible for non-compliance with laws and regulations." The impasse is therefore complete. Can the Secretary of State state explain why the 2015 plan of action has not been implemented at all? Mr. Chairman. It should not be surprised that the Committee of Wise Men also gives the Netherlands a sweep out of the pan. The Netherlands has for too long been passive on the sidelines in terms of the helping hand, also in terms of the debate on greater autonomy. There was an attitude of disinterest and despite all available insights there is no common vision either. An opinion poll in 2015 showed that only 20% of the local population were satisfied with the new municipal status. It is rather distressing and staggering that the cabinet now states, in response to the committee, that "the state of governance is worrying in the longer term." Furthermore, the picture outlined by the committee "doesn't even exceed the suspicions of the cabinet." Mr. Chairman. You have to dare: in a misconception of your own failure and failure to act, the committee of sages are stepping up as the gremium that opens its eyes to all wrongdoing and now by means of this bill, acting administratively as the last means to legitimize it. Isn't this the instrument that should have been pulled out of the closet a long time ago? In what way is the situation really different from the previous plan of approach in 2015? And that's as far as I'm concerned. Had it been a Dutch municipality, it would have happened much earlier. Why wait so long? Mr. Chairman. No misunderstanding: my group will support this proposal, with some reservations. Better late than never. The term 'overpacking' must be given real meaning, even though it will be a point of discussion. According to the wise, administrative intervention can count on great support even on the island. However, I would like to make a further comment and further questions to the Secretary of State. For example, the fundamental question is whether the Secretary of State with the commitment of a government commissioner thinks that the process can give meaning to what the sages call a forward development. Can he give a concrete outline of the measures to be taken at the time of hopefully two years? By the way, how has this been anticipated? When does the government commissioner start? And what constellation is he going to operate on? When will the so-called active steering committee be ready? And on what time the local advisory council? And, given the urgency and the limited time available, can the Government Commissioner act effectively? Where is the focus of decision-making? In this context, I would also like to point out to the Secretary of State that the government's response to this issue offers little opportunity for discussion. The texts are too vague and too low in quality. For example, the effects to be achieved and the steps to be taken are not described. Just carefree is the passage in which the following is stated: "An inventory on Saint-Eustatius of the extent of the problem in the official organisation together with the solutions and the speed with which they can be implemented is needed in order to achieve weighted choices and decision-making." Mr. Chairman. This cannot be true, after decades of inability and impotence and so many reports and committees. Secretary of State Knops, you're not gonna tell me that we're gonna start at zero without any concrete plan of action? I can imagine it's going to take longer than those two years. Please respond to that. And do you want to include the measures which, as the Council of State pointed out, have to be taken on the Dutch side, where there is still a lack of central coordination from BZK in particular? The rather simple remark from the cabinet that it "has the ambition to break it" scares the hell out of it. The island has nothing to do with political passers-by. The Spies Committee also mentioned the need for strict coordination. She says it's essential. How can a government commissioner act adequately without a clear point of contact being landed here? How is it prevented from being a lame duck in advance, parked without any clear control and without any concrete plans? It gives the impression of a long process of trial-and-error. A question that also arises is: at what time will there be an exit? What are the specific conditions, except those of a "sufficient feeling," as I heard the Secretary of State say yesterday? My group is also interested in the costs of the measures envisaged in terms of regular budgets and additional resources. We would like to have a concrete indication of this. Finally, we cannot avoid the great question of autonomy. It runs like a thread through this file. As a second track, the PVV's group recommends that the option of full autonomy be presented at the same time. It is clear that the cabinet is prepared to accept the view of far-reaching autonomy, but that it rejects the intermediate model of an autonomous country within the Kingdom. How is this compatible? What does the Secretary of State propose about the "more substantive discussion" about autonomy? After all, the right to self-determination lies with the islands themselves. From his statements yesterday in the House of Representatives, I got the impression that this topic is not negotiable for him. This is at least a discrepancy with the cabinet line, but it is also a discrepancy with the recommendation of the Committee of Wise Men, which says that it is urgently necessary to start the autonomous debate. In our view, this intermediate model is not an option, as the cabinet rightly points out. Money, but no supervision; that would only perpetuate the current situation without the opportunity to intervene. This forces a fundamental rethink of the current structure. My group notes that since 2010 it has become clear how unbridgeable the distance between the Netherlands and Sint-Eustatius has become. We must realise that the Netherlands and Sint-Eustatius have now reached a dead end. Without radical steps, this will remain a permanent headache file, and I do not want to do that to the Secretary of State. Full autonomy is, in the opinion of the PVV Group, the best structural option. Why not find a connection in the region? Saint Kitts and Nevis are independent countries there that have much in common with Saint Eustatius. These countries are already working intensively with other English-speaking islands. Despite the small distance, there is hardly any political and economic cooperation from Saint-Eustatius. As a result, the island remains dependent on the Netherlands and, despite the will for autonomy, remains trapped in a relationship with the former colonialist. Does the Secretary of State share this view? Can he indicate if he wants to pick up this option as a second track at the same time? In this context, I would like to draw his attention to the report of the Spies Committee, which saw the municipal model as an intermediate station and called for the evaluation to be used as a stepping stone for a clear final perspective. A renewed vision of the Kingdom is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u4	I've been a little confused. I would therefore like to ask Mr Kok what he really means. Is he talking about autonomy or is he talking about independence? Because when you talk about autonomy, they stay within the Kingdom, and when you talk about independence, they're really independent and they can join another state. So I would like to know from Mr Kok exactly what he means: autonomy or independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u5	I understand that I have not been entirely clear on this point, but 'autonomy' can be read in our view as 'total independence from the Netherlands'. This means moving towards a different structure or cooperation with the surrounding islands in the Caribbean. I think Saint-Eustatius will benefit more from this in the long run. In addition, we do not have much confidence in the temporary measure that is currently being imposed. It's an emergency. It is a very far-reaching measure, especially with the two-year deadline, which is set as a minimum. We believe that this measure is not going to be helpful and is likely to take much longer. We are talking about a situation in which, as of tomorrow, after taking over, there is a serious democratic deficit. I don't think such a situation should last too long. Two years has been a long time in the case of emergency measures of this kind. If it's gonna take much longer, you're gonna have a structurally unwanted situation. You certainly cannot do that to the islanders democratically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u6	I thank Mr Kok. I was only concerned that I wanted to know clearly what the PVV actually thinks, so I was confused by the terms "autonomy" and "independence." But he's made that clear. I understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u7	Just a moment, Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, Saint-Eustatius seems to benefit more from a future in the Caribbean than from a future in a forced neo-colonial model that ultimately led to the current anarchist situation. We have great doubts as to whether a deeply rooted culture and its anti-colonial sentiments will be redirected in a relatively short time to what we consider desirable and what we hope to achieve with this intervention. Our model of good governance is not easy to enforce. That's it, Mr. Chairman. We look forward with interest to the response of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Cook. I give the floor to Mr Van Kappen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present bill aims to put an end to the situation of gross neglect of the administration of the public body Saint-Eustatius. To that end, the island council shall be dissolved, the delegates shall be relieved of their duties and the acting authority shall be dismissed. A government commissioner to be appointed by royal decree will take their place until the time when island bodies can be deemed to be able to carry out their duties adequately. This is a very serious procedure, because it is rare to intervene in a decentralised government. In the decentralised unitary state which is the Netherlands, provinces and municipalities are autonomous administrative layers with their own constitutionally guaranteed position in the administrative system. This also applies to public bodies in the Caribbean region of the Netherlands, including Saint-Eustatius, since the last constitutional amendment. However, pursuant to Article 132 (5) of the Constitution, higher authority may intervene in a decentralised authority in the context of inter-administrative supervision in the event of neglect of a task. Neglect of tasks means that a decentralised government fails to take decisions that are brought forward by law. There can then be "placement'. This means that a higher institution will replace the institution which neglects its task. The administration of the local government is then actually set aside and a government commissioner takes over the board for the time necessary to put things in order. The 2007 report of the Oosting Commission, which reviewed the inter-administrative supervisory arrangements, states that the power to replace them can not only be used for an occasional case, but also, if necessary, for a certain period of time. Such a differentiated supervisory arrangement could then be terminated as soon as it has been found that the local authorities are again able to carry out the task adequately. However, according to the Constitution, there must be gross job neglect in the autonomous sphere. In addition, a separate law is needed which regulates the placement. That law is now ahead of us. The first question that needs to be answered is whether there is gross neglect of tasks. The Constitution is left in the middle when there is gross neglect of tasks in the exercise of autonomous tasks, which is reserved for the legislator. So that is a key issue that we, as co-legislator, have to take a decision on today. Mr President, I can be brief about this. The report by the Committee of Wise Men clearly shows that there is gross neglect of duties. In short, the administration refuses to follow the laws and regulations in force and the procedures laid down in them. Moreover, the financial situation of the public body is disastrous. The island administration apparently believes that the public body Sint-Eustatius is not bound by any Dutch legislation. This opinion is reflected, inter alia, in a motion of 9 May 2017 in which the Island Council states that any provision in the WolBES and the FinBES that conflicts with the full internal self-government of Saint-Eustatius should be considered inoperative. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that within the Kingdom there is no room for this view of the island administration; it is completely out of order. Nothing and nobody is above the law, and so is the administration of Saint-Eustatius. Attempts to adjust the administration of Saint Eustatius with less radical measures have not led to any improvement. As far as my group is concerned, the measure is full. The need to put aside the administration of Saint-Eustatius as an ultimum remedium has been clearly demonstrated in the VVD Group. The requirements of subsidiarity and proportionality have been met and, in our opinion, intervention falls within the framework of Article 132, paragraph 5, in conjunction with Article 132a of the Constitution. The intervention shall also be in accordance with international law, in particular Article 3 of the First Protocol of the ECHR and Article 25 of the IVBPR. However, we are concerned that the deeper imbalances underlying the administrative problems at Saint-Eustatius cannot be solved by legislation alone. After all, the cause of society's imbalance is partly due to its small scale. This problem also affects the other two BES islands to varying degrees. I would like to point out that Saba, with an even smaller community than on Saint-Eustatius, is currently doing quite well. The complete solution of the problem of small scale is difficult, if not impossible. Controlling the negative effects is probably the maximum we can achieve. This requires a continuous effort; there is no end date for this. Maybe the Secretary of State can reflect on that. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude, but I cannot do so without stressing, on behalf of my group, that the Netherlands is also co-responsible for the situation which has arisen and that things have been going on for far too long. Among other things, insufficient attention has been paid to the prevailing discontent in the Caribbean Netherlands about the political embedding of the islands. I am not going to go into that now, because that discussion is better suited to a broader debate that certainly needs to take place, but not at the moment. Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives has already asked the necessary questions about the legislative proposal before us, and in our opinion the Secretary of State has answered them sufficiently. We do not have any further questions at the moment. The VVD Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Kappen. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a sad day for anyone who feels connected to the Caribbean Netherlands and the people of Saint-Eustatius. In particular, it is a sad day because the Netherlands is forced to put things in order on this beautiful but poorly managed island, and to intervene administratively and put the island under curatel. It is a sad day because last week's report by the Committee of Wise Men clearly shows that there are gross, structural, administrative omissions in Saint-Eustatius. The report sketches a sad picture of an island government that ignores the law, tramples on the Dutch order of law and state, ignores prescribed procedures, derails political relations, does not engage in democratic control, lapses in nepotism and clientelism, lets down core tasks and operates on the basis of arbitrariness, intimidation and discrimination. The island administration is characterized, the committee concludes, by financial maladministration, administrative incompetence and incompetent management. Monitoring and enforcement by the Board are opaque and selective. The same applies to licensing procedures and collection of local taxes. Environmental and nature interests are systematically undermining it. Dualism is not working and there is a culture of fear. Saint-Eustatius governs himself as if it were an autonomous country outside the rule of law of the Empire. The excellent report by the Committee of Wise Men shows a completely powerless and self-sufficient island administration. Good governance is a long way off and the island is getting worse and worse. My group has also been able to see this with its own eyes. Is there, by the way, any criminal behaviour of directors, I would ask the Secretary of State? If so, how is this handled? The result of this administrative disorder is an island, as the report says, which is socially, economically and physically in a highly neglected state. The population is the victim of this. They are the great losers. They are the victims of the late maintenance of roads, homes and infrastructure. They are the victims of inefficient public services, such as water supply, waste collection and waste treatment. They are the victims of unemployment, poverty and lack of perspective. It must be said that the Netherlands has long, I think too long, tolerated this unacceptable situation, which has now reached a point of no return. That is what we have to charge ourselves for. At some point we must debate this as a parliament. This despite the considerable improvements made by the European Netherlands in care and education on the island after 10-10-10, which are also very positive by the population. My group understands that this cabinet is forced to intervene administratively. The committee's report makes no mistake about this either. Article 132 (5) of the Constitution allows for this. We need to reverse that downward spiral now. We would do the same in similar municipalities in the European Netherlands. We've been watching too long. The Council of State can also agree with the proposed administrative intervention and the appointment of a government commissioner, who must put things in order. The Council considers that the dissolution of the island council and the island administration, as well as the resignation of Mr Van Kappen's acting authority, was already acceptable in the light of the situation created and appropriate within the Constitution and in accordance with international law. Having said that, my group nevertheless needs a clear answer to five essential questions, which I will introduce very briefly. The first question is whether the cabinet has considered alternatives other than administrative curatele. What alternatives were at stake and how was that considered? The issue of proportionality of intervention is explicitly raised here. The bill must now be carried through Parliament in two days with steam and boiling water, with all the political drama that this entails. What have been the considerations here? When will there also be room for a fundamental debate on greater autonomy and the boundaries that an island, small-scale economy and society sets? The second question concerns the choice of a government commissioner. It is clear that this must be a strong person who has been poked and beaten in the local government, with a good sense of the island's culture, with perseverance, but also with communicative gifts. The candidate will, we accept and know, have been selected. I assume they'll be introduced to the island tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. In this light, how does the Secretary of State ensure that the aid structures for the Government Commissioner are in order? What powers do he have? How will this Commissioner be supported from the European Netherlands? The third question concerns the tasks of the Government Commissioner. My group believes it is very important that the Government Commissioner, with his staff, should concentrate on a quick and visible approach to the so neglected public services. I've just mentioned them. That is where the difference will have to be made to get the people on his side. Is that how the Secretary of State sees it? Is this approach shared with the First and Second Chambers? What budget will be available to the Government Commissioner? In this context, my group strongly calls for the rapid resolution of the debate on the minimum living standards in the BES islands which is currently taking place for far too long. It has been discussed several times in detail in this house. There is broad consensus on its need. It was not given to the previous cabinet to make a decision on this point, but we must now do everything we can to prevent further marginalisation of already vulnerable groups, on Saint Eustatius, but also on Bonaire and Saba. The direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State may be much sharper and should be more decisive. The Spies Committee pointed this out as well. I would like a response to this issue of the minimum standard of living and standards. The fourth question concerns the duration of the administrative procedure. On the basis of what operational criteria will the Secretary of State decide whether and when the Government Commissioner has done the job? When does the end of this unusual journey come into sight? For example, training a new generation of directors can take a lot of time, especially if these directors emerge from the ranks of Saint-Eustatius. A professionalization deficit has not been eliminated one-two-three. We are also talking about a political change in culture, and we are talking about this too. Mr. Chairman. The fifth and final question focuses on perhaps the most important issue: how will the cabinet communicate the administrative intervention with the people of Saint-Eustatius? How is trust gained? There is now a turbulent time in a rapidly inflammable situation, in which anti-colonial feelings and resistance will undoubtedly emerge and in which groups will choose a position and act accordingly, within and perhaps beyond the limits set by the law. The reactions of today and yesterday from delegates and members of the island council are not misunderstood in this respect. I ask the Secretary of State: how do we get from manly action to a constructive phase? Then one final point. My group stresses the importance of the civil society council to be formed, which will assist the Government Commissioner, and gives the Secretary of State the opportunity to involve local churches in particular. They are the cement and social capital of the island. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. My group deeply regrets the need for this radical administrative intervention, but unfortunately it is inevitable. The people of Saint-Eustatius deserve so much better. We wish the Secretary of State much wisdom and strength in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. We would have liked to have seen this Secretary of State make his debut in this Chamber on another kind of bill, but a man cannot always choose what he would like. In any case, today we meet a Secretary of State who comes to the Chamber with a very firm proposal and thus shows that he takes the Caribbean Netherlands very seriously. At least that is to be appreciated, and taking that seriously is also very much needed. Saint-Eustatius is not usually the focus of attention, but there is every sad reason for this today, now that there is a proposal to use the last legal remedy to deal with the administrative wilderness in Saint-Eustatius. Our first task as a Chamber is to assess the proposal itself on legitimacy, necessity, proportionality, subsidiarity and efficiency. Can it, must it, can it, does it work? In doing so, we will have to deal with the temporary nature of the law and the question of how to proceed next. In addition, and at a somewhat later date also more comprehensively, we will have to consider the broader framework to which the report of the Committee of Wise Men refers, as well as the cabinet response and the legislative proposal. It concerns the relationship between the Netherlands and the island of Sint-Eustatius as a public body, and the role that the Netherlands has played in the failed construction of the island in recent years. But first we have to talk about the fundamental and constitutional review, because this proposal affects the administrative relations between the government and the local government. It is a horse medicine that should only be used in extreme need if there is no other solution, an ultimum remedium. The Constitution does indeed provide the opportunity for this. Recently, thanks to the embedding, this piece also applies to public bodies. But before that there was already the similar article 232 in the WolBES. From 2010 this will play a role in the discussion. It is important to re-examine the illuminating explanatory memorandum. It said: "Finally, there is the situation that the administration of a public body 'obviously neglects its tasks'. This involves neglect of autonomous tasks, i.e. tasks under this law or the Public Finance Act Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba, such as..." Then there are a few examples. Then it says: "As has been said, it is extremely unlikely that such a situation will occur soon. Indeed, the law has sufficient safeguards for this." Those words were probably reassuring, but seven years later we got to the point that the ultimum remedium is on the table. For the purposes of the review, it is first of all important to determine whether the situation on Saint-Eustatius should be regarded as gross neglect of the task. On this point, the government bases itself on the balanced, clear and sharp report of the Committee of Wise Men. We owe them our thanks. Although the overall picture is shocking, there are few surprises for whom the situation on Saint-Eustatius follows a bit. The fact that relations with the Netherlands are bad is sad and not helpful, but the real problem lies elsewhere. In particular, the island's population suffers from the fact that the directors do not assume their responsibilities and that the island council abandons its representative and controlling tasks. Increasingly, as the report points out, there is arbitrariness, lawlessness and maladministration. Personal power struggles, intimidation and discrimination have become structural undermining of the rule of law, and in the meantime the rulers are spending their time and the island's money on sham manoeuvres about autonomy. Do you understand what I am saying? There is always talk of this. So is international law. It must always be about the express wish and interests of the people of Saint-Eustatius. But it should not be about a few individuals who abuse their political power at the expense of the population. So the essence of the motivation behind this proposal is not that there are problems on Saint-Eustatius. The core is that local government is no longer able to address legal relationships and responsibilities. This has made it impossible to tackle the problems and work towards an improvement. That makes this proposal legitimate and necessary in the opinion of my group. There is a wide-ranging administrative intervention, but we are right to say that we are also strongly committed to improving living conditions and restoring local democracy and the administrative apparatus. For example, the rule of law on Saint Eustatius must be restored. In this way, citizens and businesses will be able to rely on a government that operates lawfully and fairly, and so society and the economy will be able to gain ground again. That is why the question of proportionality also includes the question of how local democracy can be restored, because it must be as small and as short-term as possible. I think that's what everyone thinks. That is why the question whether the Secretary of State can also respond to the Council of State's opinion that the cessation of the intervention should not be cold turkey, as the Council of State did not say, but that was basically a matter of graduality. My group understands the choice to rebuild and exercise democracy through more informal forms of participation and participation. Without wanting to regulate the social council too tightly, we need, for example, to hear from the quarterly reports how this participation and the development of local democracy takes shape. Speaking of which, can the Secretary of State undertake that these quarterly reports, which we can expect from 1 June, will also be sent to our Chamber? The cabinet response to the report of the Committee of Wise Men, in which this is said, was only sent to us in a copy. The First Chamber also likes to get the reports directly from the Secretary of State, so we can keep the finger on the wrist. Can the Secretary of State also undertake to include in these reports the functioning of the government consultation? Then it's not about their relationships as such, but much more about whether it works to look at them this way. And can the Secretary of State promise that we will also be able to read through the reports what criteria and indicators are being developed to enable this particular regime to be phased out? Let me be clear: my group likes to give the Secretary of State a firm mandate, but not a blank cheque. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make these criteria and indicators clear, step by step, along the way of quarterly reports, as they are being developed, so that they become part of the government's desirable monitoring of the phasing out of such exceptional intervention as this? Mr. Chairman. My group therefore concludes that this legislative proposal is legitimate and necessary, and also believes that it can be an effective intervention, provided that it focuses on the physical, social and democratic reconstruction of the island. But at that very point, the demand for the role of the Netherlands also plays. In the report of the Committee of Wise Men we see the same picture as in the report of the Committee of Wise Men: too little coherence in policy, too viscous communication in The Hague, good improvements in, for example, care and education, but also very poor social security and infrastructure. I would like to mention just setting the minimum social level, which, despite all the fine words, does not want to be hurried. That investigation report must be almost there now, and we understand that the government is planning to come up with a cabinet response on 1 June. Even though I understand that in the eyes of a department and a ruler, this can be seen as a matter of urgency, in the eyes of this Chamber and even more so in the eyes of people on, for example, Saint-Eustatius, this is all very long. What am I saying? This is stalling. On 28 June 2016, this Chamber asked almost unanimously to set that social minimum. Now we have to wait for a cabinet response to a report again until June 2018, while we keep repeating to each other that poverty is poignant. I mention this example, because it illustrates so painfully that even the debate on solutions is being cut short by the government's slowness to do so. I say this in the past tense, because I would like to express the hope that this new government will speed up this process. I would ask the Secretary of State very specifically whether the cabinet response of 1 June will at least contain a set social minimum and not just a process reaction in the sense of: now that we have a report, we are going to look again at what we should do with it and then you will hear from us again. Please do not send us and the people of the Caribbean Netherlands again with a brat in the reed. We need to make meters. Mr. Chairman. However, my group needs a broader exchange of views on the report as a whole, cooperation between departments, powers and roles, and thus on how the government of the Caribbean Netherlands can be a transparent and effective government. Of course, this is also about the coordinating role of the Ministry of the Interior and how it can be adapted to the different responsibilities of the ministries of commerce. That is not necessary for us today, rather than even today, but it is necessary, because we cannot and must not ignore the critical notes that the Committee of Wise Men cracks about public function from the European Netherlands. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he can tell us a little more about his own reflections on this matter and his intention to seek advice from the Council of State. When can we expect to step into this? A small question about probably a small omission in this rapid legislative proposal concerns the role of the electoral college clerk. That would actually be the clerk of the island council, but since the island council no longer exists, the question is who will be the clerk of the electoral college. We think it would be a good idea to fix that for a while. Mr. Chairman. Finally, as a group, we wish this Secretary of State a great deal of commitment and a great deal of decisiveness with this proposal, which we will support, because the people of Saint Eustatius need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. Lawlessness, financial maladministration, discrimination, intimidation, threats and insults, the pursuit of personal power, a culture of legal inequality, randomness and exclusion. This includes the indications in the report of the Committee of Wise Men and the explanatory memorandum to the bill on Saint Eustatius which we are discussing today. It's a sad state of public administration. In addition: rule without legal authority and turn away by the public administration of the legal and state order. With these latter qualifications, my group believes that the legislative proposal, which provides for a regime of gross neglect of tasks, and the urgent procedure followed, is formal and materially legitimised. Unfortunately, the seriousness, nature and persistence of the situation do not allow for any other conclusion. In the interest of the islanders, it is necessary to set aside the normal administrative establishment. Mr. Chairman. Good governance is not just a question of theoretical purity. The list of abuses already shows how frightening this is and can be for the population and society. Without good governance, a society stagnates and it decays. Think of waste disposal, transport, safety, youth problems and the built environment. Very soon we see an image of deep decline and economic decline, and that in a small island society of about 3,000 people, from which it is difficult for everyone to escape. This underlines the gravity of the situation. My group therefore strongly supports the appointment of the Government Commissioner and the Acting Government Commissioner to provide for the administration. Our question is whether that government commissioner is financially, administratively and otherwise sufficiently equipped to fulfil his duties and actually be able to act effectively. Indeed, it is very important to achieve a visible result both in terms of administrative culture and in terms of material progress. Could the Secretary of State also indicate how he sees that visible result? In other words, what does he measure the success of the government Commissioner? My group also strongly supports the establishment of a social advisory council, which advises the government Commissioner. It also promotes the voice of the people and the development of a shared vision of the future of the island from the bottom up. Mr. Chairman. It's a temporary facility. The title of the proposal also explicitly indicates this. My group shares the view that a period of at least two years should be included in order to achieve a lasting and lasting start and to restore normal relations. My group considers that the provision of a transitional situation after that period, whether two years, a little shorter or a little longer, should be very sensible. My question is: can such a transitional situation be foreseen within the current legislative proposal? I refer, for example, to the establishment of an island council alongside the government commissioner. That option has also been mentioned in the documents. What other options for a transitional regime does the Secretary of State have in mind? Mr. Chairman. So far I have only paid attention to Sint-Eustatius, but there is also another side, namely the Netherlands and the relationship with the Netherlands. The Committee of Wise Men also speaks of seriously disturbed administrative relations, both internally and in the relationship with the Netherlands. Of course there are several sides to the latter, namely not only the side of Sint-Eustatius but also the side of the Netherlands. This Chamber has paid particular attention to this latter relationship in several policy debates. Without a good, mature and fruitful relationship between the Netherlands and Saint-Eustatius, a normalization of the administrative relations within Saint-Eustatius is probably an illusion, especially when it comes to a lasting fertile relationship. I would like to mention a few elements. Sint-Eustatius didn't choose the BES construction himself and winning trust by the Netherlands didn't work out very well, although that is crucial. Also, providing a good starting position for the island after 10-10-10 in terms of physical infrastructure, think of roads and also social infrastructure, for example the poverty problem, leaves something to be desired, as this Chamber has repeatedly pointed out. The government's lax attitude to the motion of the First Chamber on the criteria for a social minimum is really significant. It has also advocated a strong coordinating role for the Interior and a genuinely effective legislative restraint towards the islands. I would actually like to add: a legislative attitude new style; not occasionally declaring a law applicable or not applicable, but also thinking more from the reality of the islands themselves. I would also mention the improvement of the formal administrative position of the State representative. There is also a motion from this Chamber on this subject. The Committee of Wise Men also referred to the position of that official. I would like a brief response from the Secretary of State on these points. Although I expect us to come back to this at a later stage, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at this. These are of course also matters of interest to Bonaire and Saba in their relationship with the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion. It is truly regrettable that it has come to this, but given the situation as it is, it is good and even necessary for a legal provision to be made. We appreciate the Secretary of State for the role he has taken in this, especially for the benefit of the islanders and their well-being. We would also like to wish the Government Commissioner and the Acting Government Commissioner every success. We hope that the Government Commissioner, together with the Social Advisory Council, can lead the island to a certain administrative boom. We also hope for a structural, sustainable restoration of regular relations as soon as possible. Finally. I have spoken in general about the functioning of the various administrative bodies of Saint-Eustatius, but I do not want to equate all those involved. We hope that those on Saint-Eustatius with the administrative heart in the right place can also play a fruitful role in future relations. I can now assure you that my group will wholeheartedly support this draft law. However, we are also very much looking forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Mrs. Meijer, I see you walking to the Speaker's Chair, but we're going to suspend for dinner break. That's what I said. After dinner, you may continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u17	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill for provision in the administration of the public body of Saint Eustatius (34877), i.e. the Temporary Law on the Neglect of the Mission of Saint Eustatius. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was already in the starting blocks. This is a black day, when the government, elected representatives of the people, proposes to us that other elected representatives and directors should be transferred to Saint Eustatius and transferred to a Commissioner appointed by the government. Since 1951, we have not made use of this horse-killing deposit due to gross neglect, even because the few experiences gained from it were very bad. The fact that it has come to this, raises the question of why we did not prevent it. Anyone who reads the report of the Committee of Wise Men wonders how we could have been so stupid to escalate the situation so seriously. For example, what has happened, I hear from Statia, is that people's representatives who were best in favour of the island have left, either voluntarily or under duress. They've been replaced by boyfriends, right under our eyes. I'd like to hear from the government how things could have been left on track for so long. For although much of what is wrong must be written on account of those who have disgraced their democratic election, we cannot ignore the fact that our government let it happen. This criticism of the government is also echoed in the report that has now been sent to us. Of course, I know that this Secretary of State is not to blame for this, but his predecessors are. Democracy is not working on Statia, and our response is to put democracy out of operation for the time being. That is an extremely harsh development. We're sending the board home, so the delegates and the authority and also the democratically elected island council, because that's where it's finally wrong, according to our government. Statia's representation and administration are accused of arbitrary, selective supervision and enforcement, discriminatory licensing, lawlessness, financial maladministration, ignoring legal authority, discrimination and intimidation and the pursuit of personal power. Yesterday I heard Mr Knops say: if this had happened in the Netherlands, it would have been a long time ago. But since October 10, 2010, Sint-Eustatius Netherlands has been 100%. So maybe he can say a few words about that. 'Cause you're gonna live there. I know some of the residents a little better and I feel sorry for them. As Koos Sneek of the Democratic Party, the two-headed opposition on the island strikingly says: "The way this government works has negative effects on the entire population. It inhibits the development of the island and hinders the improvement of the well-being of its inhabitants." That can and should never be the intention or effect of a board. The Statians deserve better than this. They have the same right to good governance as we do, and it doesn't matter whose boyfriend you are. The solution that is now being proposed is a horse medicine. Democracy is not working properly and the reaction is to put democracy aside for the time being. The population suffers and suffers from the administration; that is true. But the answer to a flawed or unfunctioning democracy must not be less democracy. Then why is it apparently the solution to take control and postpone the elections scheduled for next year until at least 2021 or perhaps later? Mr. Chairman. I'm a fan of the opposite. In order to restore democracy, we are going to make sure that it does work as quickly as possible, by agreeing with each other that elections will be held as soon as possible. This ballot should not be organised by those who have now been charged, but by this Secretary of State, with national and, if necessary, international supervision, so that people can speak freely in fair elections. Fortunately, yesterday, I heard this Secretary of State say to my party colleague Van Raak that he agrees and that he agrees that elections should be held as soon as possible. But I want to go a step further in this. The elections were scheduled for March 2019, so in over a year. Surely that should be enough to organise good free elections in a village of 3,000 souls? That should even be possible sooner. Let us put our trust in the people and let them go to the polls rather than give them a vote of no confidence: you choose the wrong people and it may take years before you can choose your own government again. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about this. If he does not agree with me to go to the ballot box earlier or if necessary on the date originally set, I would like to hear him shorten the time limit set by the Committee of Wise Men, at least until 2021. Mr. Chairman. I have been in contact with a number of people I know on Saint Eustatius and the other islands. From them, I understand that this is a deep wish of theirs. Island council member Koos Sneek van Sint-Eustatius, for example, insists on this from an unsuspecting angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u19	I have a quick question. Mrs Meijer states that she would like there to be elections next year. But let's say that this really is an unwise route. Does she agree that it is perhaps better to postpone this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u20	I'm a fervent opponent of wrong choices, but if you have more than a year in an area with 3,000 inhabitants you should be able to come a long way. I hear from the people there that there are enough capable people who need to be able to form the board. I think you should be able to come a long way in a year. Perhaps one can even go to the ballot box earlier, so that the administration there can normalize itself. That might be better than putting it off for you and putting it off for two years or maybe longer. That is my intention, but of course I am very much in favour of sensible decisions. So it is a deep desire of many people there to go to the ballot box earlier. Island councilman Koos Sneek van Sint-Eustatius I just said: someone from an unsuspecting angle, for example, insists on it. Politicians from the other islands are also speaking in this direction. From Aruba I hear the view that there should also be enough capable people on Saint-Eustatius, who can provide proper self-government. I just said that to Mr Schalk. People want to choose their board as soon as possible and find their way up. I therefore wonder when the Secretary of State will again hand over the task that the Netherlands is now taking on to the local government. What do they have to meet and when is it good enough? Since Bonaire, for example, doesn't have everything going as it should, it seems to me to be a good idea to clarify things. What are your demands? Mr. Chairman. Even though the dominant feeling is relief on the one hand because something happens, on the other hand they also have the idea that they don't have much to expect from the Netherlands, because the Netherlands has not delivered enough, especially in determination. When the island became a special public body on 10 October 2010, it was expected that the people there could count on the same standard of living as their compatriots in the European part. But they came out deceived. Poverty, for example, is poignant. This Chamber asked the then Secretary of State for Social Affairs to get to work on this. The sad thing is that we still do not know what an acceptable social minimum is according to the government. The chairman of the Committee of Wise Men also spoke about this this morning and called it a disgrace. It has been known for years that pension funds paid by people who were or are still in public service have not been put into the pension fund. Those people have lost part of their money deposited and thus part of their old age provision. Although we have known this for a long time, there is still no prospect of a solution. Do you think it's weird that the disappointment is great? Do you think it's weird that people turn away from the Netherlands, especially when their own drivers also ignite that fire? Do you think it's weird that they cheated and felt abandoned by their local government and by the government overseas? Not for nothing in 2015 it turned out that less than a third of the population felt that Dutch supervision was in order. In 1998, this was over 75%. Let us also put our hands into our own bosom and note that the Netherlands has not really given reason to let people have a different opinion. Mr. Chairman. Statia is not a common Dutch municipality. It's a public body with a colonial history. The people will have to choose what they want: the right to self-determination or not. In this you can see, for example, the difference between Statia and Saba.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u21	Mrs. Oomen, can you be a little quieter, because we can hear you here? Mrs. Oomen! Hello! We can hear you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u22	People have spoken to the people and on Saba they have chosen links with the Netherlands. With this island, the proportions are good. People feel heard and have made a democratic choice. We must also give this to the inhabitants of Saint Eustatius and let them speak as soon as possible, because there is more than just the possibility of becoming an independent country. The Netherlands is blamed for not having been aware of this before and for not having had the conversation with the island before. There have been several moments before that. This morning I was surprised to hear that there are contacts between politicians on Saint-Eustatius, Bonaire and also Curaçao, in which people talk to each other to roll out the Sint-Eustatius scenario on the other islands. We already know these feelings are deep on Bonaire, but it lives wider. I would like the Secretary of State to let us know whether he is going to have a quick discussion with the whole region in order to prevent the same situation from arising. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the report of the Committee of Wise Men. They have identified a number of issues, such as arbitrariness, lawlessness, financial maladministration, discrimination and intimidation. I think the criminal court can make a ruling on this. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: are the people who have committed this offence also being prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office? In addition, the committee has made a number of recommendations, such as addressing coordination and addressing infrastructure delays. The Secretary of State takes over the committee's recommendations and that is commendable, but they are recommendations that we have known for a long time. The only question that remains is: why is it only now? Why has the population been paying for years? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to regain the confidence of the people, what he is going to do in the near future and how he will keep us informed of progress. The committee also explicitly mentions the fight against poverty. I referred just now to the debate we had almost two years ago. Yesterday I heard the Secretary of State at the Lower House promise that he will include the report of Social Affairs, which states what is an acceptable social minimum, in his own report which is scheduled for 1 June. Despite the sadness that this has been delayed for two years, I hope that the Secretary of State will now also undertake to start working on the results in the shortest possible time and to keep us informed of his progress. I can assume that he agrees with me that residents of the Netherlands are entitled to an acceptable social minimum, whether they live in the European Netherlands or in the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr President, I will conclude. We agree with the Secretary of State that something needs to be done now, and we very much regret the need for this horse medicine. We hope that this situation will take as long as possible and that the discussion on a possible wish for autonomy throughout the region will now begin quickly. We particularly wish that the people of Saint-Eustatius should be able to choose a good, reliable and well-functioning administration as soon as possible. I wish the Secretary of State every success with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague Teunissen apologizes for illness. I'll try to cover for her as best I can. Mr. Chairman. A public body in a state of decomposition. The report of the Committee of Wise Men shows that there is gross neglect of duties. The use of curatele is an ultimate remedy and the decision to do so cannot be taken lightly at all. With a view to ending the administrative failure, a government commissioner will replace the competent authority on Saint-Eustatius until there is a return to proper functioning governance on a democratic basis. The administrative procedure is a difficult but necessary measure, my group agrees. My group appreciates the fact that the interests of the inhabitants are at the forefront and that Saint-Eustatius is further developing in this consideration. The inhabitants of Sint-Eustatius want and deserve better directors and have also asked for other political relations in a referendum, but the relationship with the Netherlands does not contribute to this until now. In October last year, shortly after hurricane Irma also caused great damage on Statia and for fast Dutch help, the ratio reached a low point. Wouter Weendaal, assistant professor of political science in Leiden, conducted extensive population research on the island in 2015. This showed that only 20% were satisfied with the status of a special Dutch municipality. About two thirds of the population felt that the Netherlands treated the Caribbean island with little or very little respect. An old wingewest that suffers from the distance to the Dutch mainland, one of the largest natural areas in our country and also one of the most unknown and threatened. The committee believes that it will take two years to recover until new elections can be held. Until then, the government commissioner will wave the scepter. It is still unclear what the precise tasks and responsibilities will be and how they will be tested democratically. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to give us a little more insight into that. Who is the government commissioner accountable to? How will the government commissioner be supported in the near future? The criticism of the Netherlands itself is an important element in the report. The committee is strongly critical of our country. It highlights a situation in which the Netherlands has been on the sidelines for too long on two points, namely the helping hand and the debate on more autonomy. The Committee notes with the Netherlands an attitude characterized by disinterest and the lack of a common vision. The many new rules after 10-10-10 have not improved the proportions. The main task now is to achieve new, better relations and a better understanding. Without it, the chances of recovery are minimal. The Netherlands has failed to set a social minimum. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there are any plans to take this forward more vigorously from now on. The Netherlands has also failed to lay down rules to protect animals, nature and the environment, the main natural capital of the island and the greatest chance of prosperity and well-being for the future, including for the human inhabitants of the island. Coordination from The Hague can and should be improved. We will have to define the minimum conditions to be met in order to make life on Saint-Eustatius pleasant and at least bearable. People feel like they're being left to their own devices. The Secretary of State is actually asking this house for a carte blanche, but for the time being does not give the Chamber a sense of responsibility. This makes the situation and the mandate requested rather unclear. Can the Secretary of State be more specific about the mandate he is asking for, the responsibility he is going to take on this and the deadline for doing so? The Council of State states that there is no conflict with international law. But how do we build trust with the people there? What do you have to do in the meantime with criminal acts that have been committed? How are the drivers who have now been pushed aside going to be dealt with? How can the Netherlands donate €18,750 per person each year to the 3,200 inhabitants of Saint-Eustatius and that the inhabitants live in poverty? The residents hardly notice any of that in their daily lives. Is there such corruption that very little of that amount actually reaches the poorest inhabitants of the island? Perhaps the Secretary of State can explain this. The marine ecosystems at Sint-Eustatius are vulnerable. Unfortunately, according to the report of the Committee of Wise Men, there is also neglect of the physical environment. The dismissed administration put economic development above nature's interests. The local government, according to research, is primarily committed to economic development. Other aspects, such as the marine environment, are subordinate. One of the directors said: we do everything for the economy, why do we have to take into account nature in our port? This could also be a tile on the wall for us, including for our own policies. We'll see what happens when you do that. So we should also be able to learn lessons from this in the Netherlands. What concerns us is the view of the deposed administration that the environment, particularly the marine environment, is subordinate to economic development. This would sacrifice a unique nature reserve, with all its consequences. In addition to the needs of the people living on the island, I would ask the Secretary of State to pay attention to the neglect of animals, nature and the environment. We are very pleased that yesterday in the Lower House the Secretary of State promised my party colleague Frank Wassenberg that the Government Commissioner will also identify the threats to nature and the environment in order to provide nature with the necessary protection. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this effort will take shape and when it will be evaluated with the Chamber? Thank you. A great deal of strength and success in solving the problems identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, in itself, a pleasure to welcome the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations, as I would point out very specifically here, to his first plenary debate in this Chamber. I look forward to many other meetings. However, the reason for this debate, the proposal for an urgent act to counter the administrative neglect of Saint-Eustatius, is not very joyful. The urgency procedure currently being followed is both annoying and limiting for a proper and careful parliamentary input into the legislative proposal and should in general be strongly discouraged. But in this case there are compelling reasons for doing so. Exceptional circumstances justify exceptional steps which cannot tolerate delay or twilight zones. In the meantime, the debate has also been held in the Lower House and I am the eighth speaker on the list in this Chamber. There is therefore little point in explaining the administrative bankruptcy of Saint-Eustatius in detail once again. This has not only been done adequately in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal, but above all in the report by Mr Refunjol and Mr Franssen. I very much appreciate this report, because the administrative failure on Saint-Eustatius is not only described in an extremely objective, sensible and nuanced manner and without polarising tone, but also provided with context. This is a context that is partly historical in nature, partly related to scale and population of the island and partly linked to a difficult relationship with the Netherlands, with the European Netherlands. This difficult understanding is largely attributable, but not only to the island leaders. For example, the report by Refunjol and Franssen....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that the report makes it crystal clear that the administration of Saint-Eustatius is not only a gross failure in its responsibilities towards its own inhabitants, but also towards national authority, the government, and is also guilty of totally undemocratic and undemocratic behaviour. I cannot see it any other way at times, and I am referring to the report of the Committee of Wise Men, intimidation, pressure, threat and blackmailing, insulting and mocking people who think otherwise. In addition, I quote the Committee of Wise Men again, which has almost drawn the situation from a coup d'état. I am asking the Secretary of State to be sure, but I assume that the Public Prosecutor's Office has now taken steps to investigate whether criminal proceedings against the directors concerned and perhaps island council members are reasonable on the basis of these findings in the report. However, the essence of the report is the substantiated observation that the Statian administration has turned away from the existing legal and state order and that there is no longer any possibility of restoring administrative and legal relations other than by relying on the possibility provided for in Articles 132, fifth and 132a, second paragraph of the Constitution to intervene and to provide by law for the performance of the tasks which are now indisputably neglected. My group has no doubt about the accuracy of this conclusion and supports the Secretary of State in his justified and vigorous approach. He shows that he cares about the fate of the inhabitants of St. Eustatius, who are entitled to good and careful administration, and that he does not hesitate or delay to take far-reaching measures if necessary; a powerful, albeit not very easy, beginning of his term of office. My group recognises and agrees with the necessity and proportionality of the job neglect measure in the legislative proposal. That does not mean that we do not have a few more questions about parts. The most important question for me is that of the continuity of stable governance on the island. The need to intervene is one, but when and under what circumstances does the need for this and can it be returned to normalization of relations? The bill is based on a return to that normal administrative structure at the time when a newly elected island council enters. That moment can be determined by royal decree and - if I understand correctly - is between two and six years from now. Until then, the power conferred on it by the draft law applies: essentially, a head of government on behalf of the government. The legislative proposal and the explanatory statement are not yet very clear on the criteria for reaching a decision on ending the exceptional situation: if there is administrative and administrative stability, the procedures are in order and there is legal and efficient administration and financial management, I will summarize the government's explanatory statement just as briefly. With an authoritative and experienced government commissioner who comes from outside and is supported by officials from BZK and other departments, that moment will undoubtedly come at some point, perhaps even earlier than is expected now. But is that also the time to leave the administration back to the political culture on Saint-Eustatius, which has been established to have led to disorder and inability? Is it not a crucial condition that there should be confidence in the presence of a democratic and state-of-the-art culture that can underpin a rule of law? I do not read anything about this in the documents except that there will be investment in the training of civil servants and potential administrators and in communication with the population. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he and the government will deal with this unmentioned criterion of a changing political culture. After all, the last thing we can afford is to intervene harshly and then end up in exactly the same inconvenience over a number of years. The explanatory statement announces that a real BPO Caribbean area is being set up (not on Thursday evening, I presume). That is good, but that does not, of course, answer the question of how the criteria I referred to are developed and tested. I do not think it is a satisfactory answer to the observation that there is no strong and authoritative coordination of the policy on Saint Eustatius and the other two BES islands in The Hague either. The Committee of Wise Men comments on this and the Section also advises the Council of State. The government's holding off reinforcements for now. And yet I would like to call on the Secretary of State to take this coordination vigorously and to promote the legislation which gives him and his ministry a decisive authority in the direction of government policy for the BES islands, as the Advisory Section has proposed. This could have been dealt with in this legislative proposal as far as I am concerned, but otherwise in a different way as soon as possible. I believe that this should also be involved in the further positioning and appointment of the next State representative. In the explanatory statement, the Secretary of State at the suggestion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State stated that it would be conceivable that there would be a transitional regime, a kind of transition period between the single administration of the government commissioner and the regular administration of island council, administrative college and authority. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked a question about this, I believe. However, the present legislative proposal does not seem to provide for this in terms of text. Moreover, this legislative proposal has relieved the regular administrative bodies of their duties and sent them home. How does the Secretary of State propose such a transitional regime, not only in fact but also in law? Can this be settled by separate royal decree, as the government also believes that the exceptional situation at KB can generally be brought to an end? The Secretary of State refers, for that last point, to the lifting of the exceptional situation created by this bill by royal decree, following the advice section on Article 129, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, but I would like to see a further justification for that. Shouldn't the legislator who intervenes heavily in constitutional relations also be involved in the decision to put an end to that exceptional legal regime? I'd like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State. Finally, a single question and one final condition sine qua non. The question relates to the position of the Deputy Government Commissioner. Can the Secretary of State explain why this figure has been chosen and what role he or she will have? I found very little in the documents on this subject. Is it unthinkable for the State representative to be able to step into that position at any time, to facilitate coordination and the transition to a regular administration, or could that role be assigned to a future authority? And then the condition sine qua non; the condition without which all this cannot succeed properly. This is, of course, a genuinely facilitating policy of the Netherlands: generosity in the facilities, a substantial investment in the physical state of the island and a significantly better poverty policy, which finally does justice to the circumstances of Statia, Bonaire and Saba. We've been waiting too long for that. Mr. Chairman. I await with great interest the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. Although Mr Knops has been working for several months, I would like to congratulate him on his position from this point on. I wish him every success and, above all, good luck in this dossier. Mr. Chairman. The situation on Saint-Eustatius is extremely serious. There is a highly neglected state, both socio-economic and physical, and many statians are worried about it. The administrative situation is characterised by lawlessness, financial maladministration, ignoring other legal authority, intimidation and the pursuit of personal power. Prescribed decision-making procedures are not followed. The island council doesn't control. The administrative college does not function as a college. In order to justify this behaviour, the administration relies on the right to self-determination and the resulting right to autonomy. The Committee of Wise Men points out that opportunities to improve the situation through the use of regular instruments have been exhausted and that the continuation of the current situation would be detrimental to the population and the island. The only answer to this is in the Committee's view: administrative intervention by the Netherlands, by the appointment of a government commissioner for at least two years, in order to bring about visible and sustainable changes while addressing physical and socio-economic infrastructure. An important point of criticism of the committee, which was also discussed by everyone else, concerns the attitude of the Netherlands. The Committee notes an attitude of disinterest and the lack of a common vision of the future of the public body. It is not by chance that the report bears the title "Nearness or distance, a world of difference." Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has informed us of the committee's findings and rightly states that it is impossible for an administrative body in the Netherlands to turn away from the existing legal and state order. The cabinet concludes with the committee that the situation of disorder cannot continue, in the interest of the population, and brings forward a legislative proposal for action on account of major job neglect as an ultimatum remedium. This is a measure that has not been implemented since 1951. I've lived and worked in the area where Finsterwolde is. I can assure you, Mr President, that, after almost 70 years, that intervention there has not been forgotten and still evokes emotions. Undoubtedly, this law will also lead to emotional reactions on Saint-Eustatius. That makes good communication extremely important. I'll get back to you on that. The members of the PvdA Group support the bill. I can be clear about that in advance. The situation is so serious that we are convinced that intervention on the basis of this temporary law is necessary. As far as we are concerned, the committee has made it clear that there is gross neglect of tasks and that intervention is justified. In order to remain in the terms of the committee, it is important to work on the basis of proximity, next to the people of Saint-Eustatius. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. We do have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, on the legislative proposal itself. In my group's view, the temporary legislative proposal should actually be temporary. The committee assumes a minimum period of two years. In the press, the Secretary of State said: as short as possible, as long as necessary. We can imagine that it is difficult for the Secretary of State to specify a time limit until there is a plan of action on the part of the Government Commissioner, but can the Secretary of State indicate which criteria must at least be met in order to return to the normal situation? Is it his expectation that elections can be held on the island by 2021 at the latest? Our second point concerns support measures. The cabinet is quite right to be very determined in terms of the dissolution of the island council, the removal from office of the island deputy and the acting authority and the appointment of a government commissioner and an acting government commissioner. The cabinet seems to be less energetic in terms of improving the welfare of the islanders. I quote from the cabinet's letter: 'The committee's recommendation to deal with the 'physical disadvantages' concerns the cabinet. There is a willingness to accelerate the implementation of the measures, plans and investments already planned." My group is keen to see stronger wordings. In our view, the appointment of the Government Commissioner and the improvement of the physical and social position of the island and its inhabitants should run parallel. Residents must be able to see and experience that, as a result of the far-reaching measures being taken, there is real improvement not only in terms of governance but also in terms of improving physical infrastructure and reducing poverty, unemployment, youth problems and other problems affecting residents on a daily basis. This is also very important for the Government Commissioner to legitimise his presence on the island in the eyes of the people. With regard to a broader socio-economic and physical infrastructure, an inter-departmental Caribbean Netherlands Steering Committee will be set up to "promot integrated decision-making, with the primary aim of achieving visible effects on the island for the population and in daily life." On this point, my group expects urgency from the cabinet and likes to hear from the Secretary of State what he is going to do in order to quickly achieve visible results, what the timetable is and how he is going to involve the people of Saint-Eustatius. We believe that this inter-departmental steering committee is a good step forward. However, the cabinet does not opt for further, firm administrative coordination, as advised by the Council of State. Can the Secretary of State explain why this is not or is not yet the case and when it will be? In the light of past experience, this is an important and necessary point. Our third point concerns the committee's recommendation to reconsider the existing form of the relationship between the European and Caribbean Netherlands on a number of points. The cabinet indicated that it would come back to this at a later stage. Given the importance of this recommendation, can the Secretary of State indicate when it will be? In my group's view, this debate must be conducted quickly and we must not appear to be moving to the order of the day on this side of the ocean. We also have a question about communication. My group can well imagine that the news about this temporary law on Saint-Eustatius will give rise to some reactions. We understand that the Secretary of State is travelling to the island in the very near future to communicate this decision. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he's going to do that? Can he also indicate how communication will be shaped in the coming years? My group believes that it is important for residents to be involved and informed about the results of both administrative and physical and socio-economic measures and also to be given the opportunity to consider the future of the island. As a group, of course, we would also like to be kept informed about the further development. In the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State promised to present a first report on 1 June, including the report of his colleague, Van Ark, on poverty. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to submit those reports to this Chamber. Today we are talking about an extremely serious intervention on Saint Eustatius, an intervention that you do not really want. My question is whether the Secretary of State can indicate in this context how he will prevent a similar situation from occurring on Bonaire or Saba. We await the answers of the Secretary of State with great interest and wish him every success in the coming period, especially in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u29	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I call Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u30	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to a few observations. First of all, a measure as radical as it is before us must have broad support in Parliament. Otherwise, something's wrong. As far as I am concerned, there is full support, but in fact with great reluctance, because taking over the entire democratic process on Saint Eustatius is, of course, unheard of and an ultimum remedium. Such a horse medicine, one often sees against it for a very long time to use it and then you are often too late. That's right, we're actually too late here. I therefore believe that broad support in Parliament is necessary. Broad support on the island itself is, I think, less guaranteed, but not entirely necessary. The interests that are served are not only those of the population there, but also the importance of the rule of law and even the much greater importance of stable development in the overall Caribbean should play a role. However, the importance of the people of Saint-Eustatius is by far the most concrete and human argument for intervention, so it is also to be hoped that there will be support for it, in addition to probably resistance. Whether this need is felt immediately or not by the population, it is in any case very important that the intervention should prove itself to the population by its way of action and its results. It should be borne in mind that there is a call for greater autonomy on all three Dutch islands. On Saba the least in a political sense, but even there there there is a need for more concrete control. The intervention is therefore expressly opposed to what is requested not by everyone but by whole groups in the various societies. It is likely that much of this dissatisfaction with the existing situation has been fuelled by our way of dealing with the islands, by the multitude of departments, all of which wanted to say something, which also cost a lot of money, and certainly most because of the chronic and since 10-10 definitely not reduced poverty problem. It is likely that this has also increased or perhaps created the political possibilities of those who derailed the administration in a truly irresponsible way in Saint-Eustatius. But that problem is therefore wider than only Saint Eustatius. These problems must be solved for all three islands at the same time. We cannot simply look at Saint Eustatius alone. In the meantime, the Government Commissioner must help the administration and all its executive services to become more reliable and more reliable. And so that society itself can unwind. The incorporation of a democratic culture is part of this, without inflicting violence on one's own culture. Despite everything, a lot of respect is required. I hope all this works. It is true that we need to be able to discuss further the degree of autonomy that is desirable with a responsible State administration and with the other islands at a later stage. The political relations for the Caribbean Netherlands and even for the four countries are not forever established. For Saint-Eustatius certainly not; that has never chosen this constellation. We now have what we have, and we must first work with each other to ensure that it delivers as much as possible for everyone. I wish the government, the Secretary of State, every success in trying to do what is best in these circumstances. There lies a great responsibility for the Dutch Government, for the Secretary of State and indeed for the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mr Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Madam President. We can see that the Secretary of State is issuing his business card today in word and in deed. In word, because when I quote him, he says: there is lawlessness, financial maladministration, discrimination, intimidation, threats and insults, arbitrariness and the pursuit of personal power. He says that in the footsteps of the Committee of Wise Men. Those are the words, but that calls for a reaction from the government, even more so, for action by the person in charge, that is to say this Secretary of State. My group would like to make a triple effort in this respect, namely to stabilise, normalize and democratize. Stabilizing: the island council, the acting authority and the delegates are thrown aside. A government commissioner takes over the board. This is very important for those involved, but it is necessary for residents. Normalisation: the government commissioner takes over the board and will have to act quickly and adequately, achieve results, and ensure that a normal legal order is created. Democraticisation: all measures must lead to the return to normal functioning of democracy and the holding of elections. This will be trained and equipped, with a few key words of fairness, integrity and transparency. My group has a few brief questions. This intervention is a strong signal, also to other areas. Is the Secretary of State going to visit the other islands to explain and assure them that such intervention is not at issue when working within the normal legal order? Does the Secretary of State have any indication that the current measures could also be dealt with in one of the other islands? What can he do to prevent that? According to the chairman of the Committee of Wise Men, Mr Franssen, the Netherlands itself has a great deal of blame for the chaos on Saint Eustatius. One of the criticisms is that Home Affairs is under-directed. Is that conclusion correct? In any event, the Secretary of State has set up an inter-departmental Caribbean Netherlands Steering Committee. This steering group replaces the current CN table. What guarantees can the Secretary of State give that the new steering committee has more perseverance than the CN table? How is the link between this steering committee and the government commissioner arranged? However, more is needed. After all, everyone in our Kingdom is entitled to have a clear vision of the Kingdom in all its parts. What's the Secretary of State gonna do and what's the government gonna do to get that direction? Or can the Secretary of State give an undertaking as to the time limit for this at least? What is the role of the government consultation in this? The documents show that the government considers that a period of at least two years is necessary to restore the rule of law. My group would like to take as its starting point the motto: urgency, but no rush. It has just been said as if elections could be held next year, so to speak. I assume that this will only happen if there are sensible decisions at the heart of it. My message would be: rush, fine; hurry, no. How, for example, does the Secretary of State deal with the next elections if it turns out that it is too early to start the normal democratic process? In the debate in the House of Representatives yesterday, the Secretary of State said, among other things, "that there is not only a weak director there, but that the laws are also set aside and that there is therefore every room for arbitrariness, intimidation, lawlessness, discrimination, threat and insult is vulnerable. I pledged allegiance to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Kingdom when I was sworn in as Secretary of State." To that the Secretary of State linked his actions. The same applies to the directors and members of the island council of Saint-Eustatius. They also took an oath when they took up their duties. That's not noncommittal. In addition to the dependence of God that we pronounce in it, the oath also commits oneself to obeying and upholding laws and rules. The fact that mistakes can be made here is human. But if we act knowingly and knowingly against the rule of law, if the Dutch legislation is excluded, there will be consequences. These consequences are harsh and the measures are firm, but my group also considers them necessary. I wish the Secretary of State strength, wisdom and God's blessing in the performance of his duties in these special circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u34	Madam President. After all the previous speakers, the 50PLUS Group may be brief. The report of the Committee of Wise Men of Saint-Eustatius concludes that there is gross neglect by the administration of Saint-Eustatius and that this can no longer be allowed in the interests of the people. The 50PLUS Group shares the view that the administration of Saint-Eustatius has been unable and unwilling to make the necessary improvements and that the measures should be taken as soon as possible. In order to be good and reliable and not to give the appearance of a coup at all, good information and good understanding with the population is of great importance. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to launch this information campaign tomorrow when he visits Saint-Eustatius. We also want to know whether, in view of the report, there may be criminal offences and whether this could lead to prosecution. Possibly self-winning will have to be repaid. The current approach can, of course, only be of a temporary nature. A return to normal democratic relations with a well-functioning administration must be paramount. The Secretary of State said yesterday in the Lower House to provide information on progress every quarter. We assume, like some previous speakers, that this information will also be given to the Senate. Please confirm. The necessary intervention on Saint-Eustatius is still unexpected for many. They also hear that perhaps on another island the driving does not go entirely according to the rules. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether or not there is any cause for concern in this regard? Finally, in addition to supporting the measures taken, the 50PLUS Group believes that lasting improvements and the restoration of public confidence can only be achieved if we are prepared to tackle and invest in the major problems of the population. Clarification of the disappearance of pensions, the fight against poverty and unemployment, a genuine minimum social income, a perspective for the younger generation, improving education, housing and infrastructure, a decent standard of living, that is what the population is about. Today is not the time to have this debate in full swing. We would like to return to that on another occasion. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he sees the real solutions within this broad perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. Will the Secretary of State be able to answer directly? He's asking for a ten-minute suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 9:25 p.m. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u36	May I ask Members to take their place? The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 34877 Provision in the administration of the public body St. Eustatius, i.e. the Temporary Law Task Neglect Saint Eustatius. I will reopen the debate and give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Madam President. You rightly said this is some kind of maiden performance of mine here in your house. I just had the thought of saying "my house" because I'm responsible for the real estate. But I will not get you into trouble or stir you up: it is your house and I am very happy to be a guest here. All discussions about the Binnenhofrenovation come at a different time; that is not appropriate, I think, at the moment. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for their input, but also for the speed with which they wanted to deal with this bill. That is indeed what I believe Mr De Grave and others have said, not a rule, but if it is necessary, it must be possible. This is an emergency law, an emergency measure, which you use as an ultimatum remedium. You don't do that lightly, I didn't do that lightly, the cabinet didn't do that. But I appreciate it all the more that we can deal with this bill at such a rapid rate in the Second and First Chambers. I'd like to have said that in advance. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer the questions raised by the Members of your Chamber somewhat thematically, if you will allow me. That's what we call "blocks" on the other side... Excuse me, that's called "blocks on the other side"; I need to get used to my new role. The substantive cabinet response to the report of the Committee of Wise Men, the role of the Netherlands, with a bit of retrospective and introspection of what the action of the Netherlands has been and how I deal with the coordinating role, the concrete measures that I intend to take as soon as possible on Saint-Eustatius, when there is a situation in which you can get out and go back to normal relations, then something about communication and then I have a whole pile of questions that have been asked by Members. That's a whole package, but I'm trying to get through it in a coherent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u38	Can I also ask you to see if you can keep the little bit compact in terms of time? Because it sounds like a lot, but it would be nice if it could be a bit compact in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u39	I can be very compact, Mr President, but I do not know whether I can respond to your Chamber's questions. I will do my best not to repeat it and not to duplicate it, because a lot of things have been done by several Members, so I can combine them. But I still want to put down why we're here. It has already been said by several Members: the situation at Saint-Eustatius is currently unacceptable. We are talking about lawlessness, intimidation, discrimination, a situation in which we have rightly said so in a debate in the House of Representatives if it were to take place in the European part of the Netherlands, it would have been a long time ago. Apparently, over the last few years, there has been a situation in which we have looked at a different direction remotely, have not taken enough action and have actually now ended up in a situation where we all do not want to come. But as some of us have said here today, perhaps we should have come earlier, in order to avoid worse. I would like to say that my predecessor, Minister Plasterk, has set up a committee of wise men on this point, and I am very grateful for her report. If you are responsible for this dossier for more than three and a half months and you find that report on your desk, you read that and then you think: there are other options, a question that is very obvious. My conclusion was, even after reading the report, but also after visiting the islands, that there are unfortunately no such options. I'll say something about it in a minute. The Committee of Wise Men, which was frapping and surprised me at least as reasonably recently responsible for this dossier... really had the conviction when they were going to make the report that you should be able to solve the problems that exist because, if you look rationally at the problems of the island of Saint-Eustatius and the scale, you could say that this should be soluble, if everyone has the same positive attitude and open way of communicating. Unfortunately, when I was at Saint-Eustatius, I also experienced that it was not easy to get in touch with some of the members of the island council at all. A number of you have just spoken of respect. I very much support respect: the attitude of the Netherlands towards the public bodies, but also the other way around is communicated with each other in a respectful way. Look at the Commission's main findings: social, economic, physically neglected, issues such as poverty, unemployment associated with it, youth and family problems, physical problems related to erosion, poor infrastructure, inadequate waste disposal and poor handling of nature and the environment. Then you come to the hard conclusion that the committee has reached. And I can only fully endorse that conclusion. The list has been made explicit by some of your members: putting aside existing legislation for your own gain or for your own benefit is unacceptable. That is precisely the reason why, unfortunately, I too am reluctant to do so, because I do not see any other way forward, after all the efforts that have been made in recent years, of indications, discussion, conversation and dialogue, in order to achieve a situation in which these political and administrative leaders, who are now working on St. Eustatius, are going to adopt a different attitude. Against our better judgment, we have in recent years thought that it might be all right. Above all, we hoped it would work out. But seven, eight years after 10-10-10, the situation is worse than ever. It is also important that democracy, which some of you spoke about, exists only on paper. But in practice there is no role for the opposition. The opposition is being silenced. That is not the attitude towards the democratic rule of law as we know and should follow in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. So there is only one possibility: that is intervention under Article 132, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. It has already been said: in 1951 that was the last time. It is a heavy substance, with a great impact, and with not only positive aspects. Because the intentions can be positive, the effects of this measure also have negative aspects. That is why it is very important that such a measure should be accompanied by accompanying measures. And that brings me to the role that the Netherlands has played in recent years, or rather: has not played enough. The role of the Netherlands must also be properly defined. Many examples have been mentioned, including in the explanatory memorandum. And the committee is extremely keen on that; I am also concerned about that. I also think that Dutch politics, the Dutch cabinet, bear the responsibility for this; I also carry it. There is an attitude on Sint-Eustatius that everything that comes from the Netherlands is not good, that one no longer trusts that what is promised is also realized. That is the position from which we leave and in which I have to communicate to people who do not have much faith and faith in a good outcome, and in which we have to prove the contrary. We will have to prove that this measure is intended to give the people of Saint-Eustatius a better future, not because it would be in the interests of the Netherlands. They are inhabitants of the Netherlands, indeed in the Caribbean, but they have the same rights as the people here in the Netherlands. That is exactly why I felt that I should look, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, at how this coordinating role of the govern ment who is responsible for Kingdom relations can be fulfilled. "Coordinate role" is a nice title, but it needs to be loaded. It must be loaded with the will, and in a sense the power of persuasion, to get things done. Businesses that within our Dutch order are organized in specialist departments. This means that you have to look in a practical way at how to strengthen that role. The fact that this high-level consultation in the Caribbean Netherlands steering committee has not been there at all in recent years, and that there was no governmental consultation where directors meet, was actually already a recipe for accidents. Because how can you coordinate if you don't see each other? The Council of State has made a recommendation to strengthen the position of that govern ment in this case. The recommendation they make goes quite far, because it restricts the ministerial competence of trade ministers in respect of a particular territory, in this case Saint-Eustatius. That is a far-reaching measure; you cannot take it lightly. I said: let's get to work now, let's practically start with this steering committee and start with the government representatives' consultation and see if that will work in practice. Let us see if I can convince my colleagues in the cabinet to coordinate policy on the BES islands. That means that all those departments are not going to end their own lines. Because the administrative hustle and bustle created by the roll-out of Dutch legislation on these islands, by the continuous visit of all kinds of rulers and civil servants, is hardly absorbable on the scale of islands such as Saba and Sint-Eustatius in particular. My proposal is now to ask the Council of State for advice on how we deal with the BES islands in the Netherlands in the not too long term. We also need to see this more broadly: it is also about the role of the CFT, the role of the State representative, the role of the authority in relation to the executive. We shouldn't just see it in the scary relationship in the cabinet. So we need to see if that control can be strengthened. For the time being, I would like to propose that the practical implementation of this high-level steering committee should be stepped down and that management consultation should function properly. Given what should happen physically, there is a whole agenda of plans and measures. It sounds very strange, but at the moment money is not the biggest problem in Saint-Eustatius. Money is available in itself, but the plans are simply not implemented. The currently available budgets in the ministries of LNV, Infrastructure, Social Affairs and JenV are sufficient to start work in the short term with plans that will actually help the people of Sint-Eustatius. That is what I meant by speeding up the implementation of plans. In addition, as a result of hurricanes Irma and Maria, this cabinet provided funds, in this case EUR 47 million for Saint-Eustatius, to repair the damage caused there, for example in Fort Orange but also at the airport. These are important economic carriers. There is so much potential in the field of agriculture, in the area of tourism nature and the environment has already been mentioned as being unused. With regard to poverty, one of the most important tasks is to ensure that the economy on Saint-Eustatius will return to normal operation. This cabinet has allocated additional infrastructure funds totalling EUR 5 million per year for all the BES islands plus an amount, which will soon be known, from the regional envelope containing the known 950 million, and which has also been labelled for the BES islands. So there's money available. This is also the important task of the government's Commissioner, Mr Delors, to work with the social advisory council to identify the needs. And it is up to me here in The Hague to dedicate the budgets to the fellow executives. I have already been given that commitment to implement the plans as soon as possible. I have heard everyone say today: this operation to create a better perspective for the people of Saint-Eustatius only succeeds if we, from the Netherlands, show that we mean business, that we take the well-being of the people there seriously and that we can make a difference to the current situation. Mr Schalk said it very nicely: it is stabilising, normalizing and then democratizing again. Back to the situation we are not in right now, but where we would really like to be: a democratic situation on Saint Eustatius. You can't realize that process overnight. This isn't just about building a few kilometers of asphalt. This is about an attitude, a culture, in which there is respect for minorities, while respecting the democratic rule of law. I therefore fully understand the question asked: what are the criteria within which we can return to that normalized situation, to that, as some call it, exit situation? You can put a number of harsh criteria on that. I can assure you that I will also report on this in the June letter, which will, of course, also be addressed to this Chamber, to the KOREL Committee. After all, some of you asked for it. In that letter I will explain which set of criteria, objectives we develop: what do we want to achieve in a physical sense? But not everything is higher math. You can't say: if we've got so many miles of this, so many people out of poverty, so many people into school, and so many childcare places, it's over. The report exudes a culture that must belong to the past. This means training, applying exchanges, guiding, coaching, helping, and showing people what citizenship and democracy is. In this respect, the social advisory council is extremely important, because it can act as a sounding board for the government commissioner and his deputy to give the people, who are often not yet heard and when they make their voices heard, they are thrown away to give the big middle class, the big unheard group, a voice in that social advisory council. And no, I'm not gonna prescribe who's gonna be in there. That's really up to the government commissioner. He is given the task of ensuring that there is a representative delegation of the inhabitants of Saint-Eustatius, and then you can think of the categories that can contribute to that representativeness. If we all do that, is it gonna work? That is, of course, the big question. My commitment is also to continue to be my message in the cabinet, and I have also said that during the previous deliberations, you can only do so if you then show the will to say B after A. You can only do that if you are willing to go into that phase with all of us afterwards and to be literally committed to doing something really different than we have in recent years. That's about all these areas. Does that mean that all wishes are met? No, of course not. There is, however, a different attitude. There is a different attitude towards Saint-Eustatius in this case than we have in recent years. That proximity is very important. So that's about relationships, about communicating, but that's also about just doing what you promise. That brings me to the questions you have asked about this communication and how I intend to do it. I've been to Saint Eustatius once. I'm going there for the second time tonight. My way of communicating is pretty direct. If I think something's not right, I'll say it, and if it goes well, I'll say it too. I also believe that we should reward good governance in our attitude. If an island like Saba does well, then they get extra space, policy space, in their spending. I've already done that, and I will continue to do that. Those who do not do well will be helped. Of course, signals go from that to all the others. In that case, if you do something on Sint-Eustatius, it will certainly send a signal to Saba and Bonaire. Saba's actually doing really well. We are very positive about that. There are also problems, but they are everywhere, and there is a proper and good administrative attitude. There are challenges on Bonaire. That's exactly the conversation I'm having with the drivers there. So when people ask, "is this going to affect...?', I say: this is a measure aimed at Saint-Eustatius, but of course it has an effect on what is happening for the rest of the Caribbean Netherlands. That is not a threat, on the contrary, because I really hope that we do not have to use this measure again, but that is a kind of measure that we put together in relation to what we think should be done in accordance with democratic standards. We are also talking about human rights and they are universal. If you see that human rights are restricted on Saint Eustatius because the majority do not take account of the minority, then that is the reason to intervene. So I'll get that communication right away. I'll also speak to the island council tomorrow and to the board of directors. I will also explain why I have taken these measures and why I have also submitted them to both chambers. Thank you for the support that I also experience here for this measure, although everyone is reluctant to do so. It is also very healthy that we do not do this enthusiastically, I think, but it does create the obligation for me personally and for the cabinet to deliver. And what will be the reaction? We will see that tomorrow, but my attitude is one of "if you help, if the people see that the Netherlands is seriously concerned with the fate of the ordinary people on Saint-Eustatius, then I am convinced that we can get those people to join us in making their own environment better." It's not our environment; it's their own environment. And it can get so relatively simple much better. Mr President, I think I have treated the cubes so somewhat compactly. I shall now turn to the other questions that have been asked. One of those questions is: were there any alternatives? My answer to that is that in fact all these alternatives, namely giving clues, giving clues by the CFT, the role of the State representative, have already been applied. The report makes it very clear that opinions of the State representative, instructions from the State representative, were ignored and that decisions which should be submitted to the State representative are not submitted. And then there is the motion in which the WolBES and the FinBES are put aside de facto. What alternatives do you have? If there is no more talk, if the people who find all this do not want to talk, in this case with me as a representative of the cabinet, then communication is no longer possible. Then I come to the question of whether elections should not be held as soon as possible. Because of the small scale that there is on St.Eustatius we cannot remove; that's just a given thing you run the risk that if you think "this Board of Directors or this Island Council places itself outside the legal order" and you now hold elections, that that happens again very quickly, precisely because of the atmosphere of intimidation created by proxy votes, by going by the doors and actually forcing people to choose for you socially. That's exactly what we don't want. We have to do this carefully. That situation must be as short as possible and as long as necessary. I have heard the members of the SP Group in the House of Representatives and also here say: you should resolve that democratic deficit as soon as possible; you should resume the role of the island council as soon as possible. I totally agree with you, but I'm afraid if you did that very quickly, you'd fall back into that order you don't want. It is a question of producing certain results with regard to financial management and staff management, it is a question of organising an orderly bureaucracy on Saint-Eustatius, but it is also a question of creating an attitude in which one has respect and debates in good relations with one another. If you would listen to the island council meeting of Saint-Eustatius on the radio, it is possible, because it is public and you can just hear it. That's not the way you have to deal with each other. People are literally intimidated and do not dare to say what they think anymore. So yes, as soon as possible elections, but I can't, right now, set that date here today. The law provides for a possibility to allow those elections to take place on a given date as soon as possible, but due to the procedures that apply, we should indicate 1 December this year whether elections will take place in 2019. From now on to 1 December seems a short time, but if you want to change that culture and if you want to take those measures, then I think this is just a very short timetable. I'm very honest with you about that. So you automatically fall into that option of two years later, also according to the system we know here in the European Netherlands. You will not be able to remove that democratic deficit in a formal sense, but I think that in an informal, material sense you can give it a place by giving the people on that social advisory board a role in the advice of the government commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u40	Of course, I fully agree with the Secretary of State that elections should be reliable and free elections, but we hear from the opposition that she is confident that there are sufficiently loyal and reliable people to be taken on board. I hear from the surrounding islands that they are confident that there are sufficient capacity and reliable people to take on that. Then why are you closing the door here and not saying you're gonna look at it? 'Cause December isn't for another ten months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u41	I'm not closing the door. I am merely expressing the profit warning that 1 December is approaching very soon. I fully agree with you that there will be fairly good drivers. The point is that if you organise elections now, the same mechanisms that lead to those who are now majority members of the island council will return. That is not so much about the quality of the politicians sitting there. But you just know that if that feeling of fear, of intimidation, in a sense, remains some kind of repressed feeling, there's a good chance that the same people will be elected again. On the contrary, I have every confidence that there are people who are capable and who are genuine, but who do not come to their senses in that whole field of forces. In that sense, it could be too fresh. If you stand for that decision on 1 December on the basis of the legislation in force, then you may not have the confidence you do. Again, it's ahead of time, it's like-then, because we're in February now, but if you're in doubt in November if that's all settled, you'll automatically get to the 2021 option. It is therefore very important for me that we create a climate with the people there, a situation where everyone sees that it can be different and that there is an alternative. The question is whether you can achieve this after six months or whether this is too short. However, I also think it is very important that whoever is responsible for this at the time, the government Commissioner and his deputy, should also provide some kind of temperature. I will, of course, do the same myself. The government commissioner reports directly to me. I answer in both chambers. The lines are very short. I will therefore include the Chamber in the progress reports on this matter. But if you're asking me right now, what's my assessment of what's going to happen? I'm being very honest. It's precisely because of the legal deadline that it could be one and a half years already you automatically enter the 2021 variant, which also the committee points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u42	Just a little while longer. I'm very glad you can see that there are capacities. I understand the calendar dates, but at the same time I would like to say to the Secretary of State that if we read in the newspaper that the elections are being postponed for several years somewhere, we will soon speak of a banana republic where things are not in order, when we are going to put things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u43	Well, we don't disagree at all about that goal. I didn't hear that in your speech either. The point is that we are now taking action because it is totally out of order. Then we end up in a procedure with all kinds of deadlines, in this case on 1 December. I didn't think of that term myself, but that's what I'm dealing with. It is not only about the situation in Sint-Eustatius, but also about the relationship with the Netherlands. There is a great deal of confidence in this and there is a great deal of scepticism about how it all goes. It takes time by showing some results to restore that confidence. I strongly believe that if we want to restore trust, we must build good relationships on our part, but also on their part. Then we have to show that we are not just saying something, but doing something. The question is whether the seven or eight months we have are sufficient. I would not like to answer that question at the final stage. I was just giving some sort of expectation. But we're gonna talk about that before then. Actually, I hope you're right. That would be the best thing, because let's keep it as short as possible. But this has been built in all these years. The question is, do you turn that around very quickly? I have already said something about the coordinating role of BZK. I'll keep the Chamber informed of progress. I will, of course, first have to ask the Council of State through the Cabinet for information, but I intend to do so. I have also indicated this in the Council of Ministers. I want to separate that from the acute need to take this decision now, but it is, of course, something that is on the table. The committee has appointed it and I can feel it myself. It is now a matter of proving that it may also be possible in this way, which we have now deployed. I have every confidence in it, by the way. When I see how fellow executives feel committed to this subject by putting it on the agenda in this way, I have asked for it and I have been given an answer. Anyway, if that doesn't go well somehow, then this is another phase that could go into effect. Mr Schalk asked a question about perseverance. Perseverance would mean that I would be some kind of Prime Minister of Kingdom affairs and even then I would still be the primus inter pares. With perseverance you really come to the area where you remove powers from someone else and invest them with another ruler. So that's a step further. I've got to talk about the power of persuasiveness. Time will tell if I succeed. Again, if that does not work, then that is something that can be considered further. A point that lives incredibly in the First Chamber, as in the Second Chamber, is the point of the social minimum. If you ask me, now that I am in office for a number of months, what I think of the way in which this dossier has been dealt with, at least in terms of pace, then I say that it has been extremely slow. I understand the frustration, too. One of the first things I heard when I was on Saba was this point. People really feel they're not taken seriously when it takes so long. That's what I care about. I spoke to Mr Van Ark about this. She cannot speed up the investigation, but I have promised to take the results of the investigation with me in the letter I am sending to the House of Representatives. I'm saying the same thing here. I also think that there should be a debate on how we are going to take that up. Again, I do not know that research yet, but I can say that Secretary of State Van Ark has said in my direction that, in anticipation, she is prepared to take accompanying measures in the case of Saint-Eustatius. I think that's a positive signal. We are not talking about the structural under stand standard, because of course it affects all the BES islands, but the movement is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u44	I welcome these last words from the Secretary of State, but I would like to return to the previous block, which deals with the coordination and position of the Secretary of State. I understand that you have promised that you will ask the Council of State for information on the coordination function. I assume that you will ask for this information in the short term in a separate request for information. Would you like to share that request with this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u45	I shall, of course, refer this to the Council of Ministers first. We'll talk about that. I will take your point into account and take it with me, but it is a decision of the Council of Ministers. So I cannot anticipate it, but I would have no objection to it in myself, precisely because I want to go a little wider than the opinion given by the Council of State. A motion has been passed in this Chamber on the position of the National Representative. You need to keep the whole system of steering from the European Netherlands under close review, including, for example, regulations that are simply rolled out across the North Sea towards the west. I think we should be wary of that. If it works well, it works. Then why more and more? At the moment there is the current discussion about the GDPR. As you can see, it clearly has consequences, including for the BES islands. My task, therefore, is to minimise the nuisance of this kind of European regulation for islands that lie in a totally different environment and context, but belong to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u46	I agree with the last point the Secretary of State mentioned. I understand very well that an acceleration of the current investigation is not there and does not make sense. I did ask for a report on June 1st. I would be very sorry if there were only a procedural proposal. I think that the Chamber and the government are putting themselves at a huge disadvantage if we do not really see concrete things now. In other words, it would be extremely helpful if you were to travel that way tonight, if you could mention a figure for that tomorrow. I understand that it is not, but my only question is to use that moment of 1 June, so that there really is a concrete outcome of that report that the cabinet is going to do something with. It's got to be more than a trial date, or we're gonna have a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u47	I heard your question very well. I can't tell you what I'm gonna do tomorrow. That really falls under the Secretary of State's portfolio. She has assured me that she takes it extremely seriously and, where possible, accelerates the process. In the end, this substantive consideration will always have to take place. I also invited her to go that way to see for herself, before she comes out with the report, what the situation is like. I think this is important, too. It sounds very flat, but you must have seen it, you must have experienced it and you must have talked to people to understand how the scale is put together and how big the problem is. She has responded positively to this. It is also up to me to try to convey these kinds of signals from the Chamber, which are now rightly sent to me through the Kingdom part, but which nevertheless belong to the domain of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I'll admit I do. The signal that you have sent today in the broad version of the document, you have made it quite clear, but some of your colleagues were also very vocal in it, and I will pass it on to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u48	I appreciate that from the Secretary of State. It's not out of mistrust, but we've been working with his predecessors in different roles for a number of years. I understand very well that the Secretary of State will pass it on. I have every confidence in that. Can we be told well before that moment by his colleague, who ultimately has to say something sensible about it, whether it is feasible to come up with concrete amounts and a concrete picture on 1 June? Then we don't get mugged by it, but we keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u49	I can pass on the request you just made to clarify what is in that letter: is there a procedural proposal or is there any point of view? I would like to point out that you know that if there is anything from that report that has budgetary implications, it is usually not very quickly regulated. I have had a number of discussions in the Council of Ministers over the past few weeks. I see that everyone sits up straight away................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I can say that there was a great deal of understanding and willingness for the situation at Saint-Eustatius and for the will to do something about it. It's up to me to make that cash with the different colleagues. I just mentioned the list of all kinds of projects. That's about millions. For example, in the area of infrastructure, the Minister of IenW said that we can get right to it. There are also pots at Social Affairs. But you also know that this is a system issue. It has more impact with that. It is about three islands, of which Saint Eustatius and Saba are the smallest. It has more impact than that. Once again, however, I would like to raise this point with my colleague. It sounds a little defensive to say that I will guard that, but I will be on top of it to ensure that this frustration that I feel about the way in which this proposal, this research and this process have been dealt with over the past few years, is also turned into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u50	Let me come back to the word "perseverance." I didn't link that to you so much; indeed, I expect more of your persuasiveness. But I had asked if the perseverance at that interdepartmental steering group would be stronger than at the CN table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u51	Yeah, I think so. The reason for this is that there is some kind of escalation possible. At the time when there is an official disagreement, this is then escalated to the government representatives' consultation. It's not Thursday's bpo. It is a consultation of responsible directors who have portfolios relating to the BES islands. In this way, there is some kind of political escalation. Then it is still not a formal perseverance force, but then it is on the political table. Then that political commitment, which I have experienced, is an opportunity to say: ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem here; how are we going to solve it? This is not a guarantee of success, but it gives more support than if you leave it at the official level, because then it often does not even come to that political level. I say this with all due respect to the officials, because it is not about expertise. I found it interesting that Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the legislative attitude of new style. That was an interesting one. You can have whole discussions about the relations within the Kingdom and how we could or could not do that politically. I understand that the President is not really open to that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u52	This is more suitable for a policy debate. That is also what Mr Van Kappen has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u53	Yes. Well, I don't have an opinion on that. I find it very interesting, but I indicated in my first budget in the House of Representatives that I am mainly of the practical approach: how can we improve relations and relationships within the existing frameworks, and how can we invest? I would like to say that we have some reservations with regard to this legislative attitude. The ease with which legislation is rolled out, sometimes unintentionally, creates a lot of consternation on the islands. Imagine: you live there with 2,000 or 3,000 inhabitants, and you get all these things over you. This would also be a problem in the European part of the Netherlands with municipalities of this size. We really need to be aware of that. I also see it as my job to watch over it, and just to say: dear people, 8,000 kilometres away, they can organize it that way. What goes wrong if they do it that way, if they don't have a literally adjacent municipality and those effects are very different? I would therefore like to take this attitude to heart. I told you, more for more, less for less. If you're okay, you'll get more room. If you're not okay, we're gonna help. Because financial management, for example, is one of the corks on which good governance prevails. It's more than that, but if you're financially out of order, if you don't have control and it's not transparent, then you do have a problem. Mr Ester and Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked what exactly the government Commissioner is going to do. He gets all the tasks that are now performed by the island administration, the board and the authority. Why was an alternate chosen? Because I want continuity. I do not want there to be any government commissioner present once the government commissioner is off the island on business or leave. The two of you have a sounding board and you're less vulnerable. It is sometimes lonely, especially in the early stages, to tap into the good contacts and to be able to connect with each other. So everything is the responsibility of the government commissioner. The role of the CFT and the National Representative will be temporarily eliminated during the period of application of this law, with the exception of the coordinating security tasks that the National Representative still has in the area. Of course, there will still be communication. That was also changed in the Lower House. The Cft can also advise. They have a lot of knowledge. You're crazy not to use that as a government commissioner, too. But they don't have the formal role they have in the other islands. The social council should be set up as soon as possible in order to also form a sounding board for the government commissioner and the deputy. I think that could work very well on the scale of an island with over 3,000 inhabitants, provided you choose the good people: people of unspoken behavior, who really want to move forward and also invest in the future of their own island. The profile of the government commissioner is actually a five-legged sheep. Of course, that's what we're always looking for. It must be someone who stands on the ground with both legs, who can communicate well, who immediately from day one has an open attitude towards the people, and who is also willing to listen. That too is the advantage of this small scale: you can get to know people very quickly. I myself live in a village with 2,000 inhabitants. I know almost everyone there, too. You can invest in that. That will also be the task of these two people. Administrative experience is important, but that does not mean that the mayor of Amsterdam, for example, is always the best driver to operate on an island of that scale. This also requires certain hands-on skills that are not always contained in academic qualities or whatever. It's also a feeling you can convey, that you can take steps with those people there. On the basis of the committee's opinion, I found two people prepared. I have every confidence in that. They'll come with me tonight that way, and be installed there tomorrow. I am convinced that they are going to do it in a good way and that they can also count on public support. Mr Kok asked when the government Commissioner was going to start. That's tomorrow. After the board, the island council and the authorities are dismissed, these people will be sworn in. That's also when the King ratifys the bill. What about the backup? You can put people there, but you also need support. We've provided for that. There are already some people active, but a number of people will go from the departmental departments, from BZK, IenW and EZK. ICTs are going to help put the administration in order. OCW already has two colleagues. SZW also has two colleagues. There's gonna be a project leader for reconstruction. So we are trying to fly in administrative quality and capacity to help the people there. This will largely be done with the administrative apparatus that is now in place, even though a number of people are now employed illegally. We're gonna see if these people can be legalized. If they don't, they get fired, but we want to make sure that the administration is adequate. Of course, a lot has to be done, because these people do not step into a spread bed. A number of administrations really need to be properly built up if you want to create irreversibility, so that after this situation is ended it can continue in a good way. Mr Kok asked when the steering committee would start. De facto it's starting now. The Steering Committee will meet as soon as possible under the direction of the DG Kingdom. I myself will then call the government representatives' meeting together to at least shape that involvement physically as quickly as possible and to have all the responsible people together. The same applies to the social advisory council, which will be set up as soon as possible. It is important that this is representative; I have already said that. Mr. Ester asked about the church. The church as such can not get a place, but of course there can be people who have a connection with the church. There are many religious people on the island. We are in favour of the separation of Church and State, so the church as such cannot participate. But there could be people who represent that group of people on a personal level. But involvement of women and young people is also very important. We really need to try to get a reflection. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of completeness, perhaps the following. I have just said it, but what are the criteria I would like to quantify in the letter of 1 June? These are the criteria that must be met in order to return to a normal situation. Then, of course, we are talking about the fact that the finances and the administration really need to be in order. We must be able to say: we are in control; we know what comes in and what goes out. It concerns financial management, the policy frameworks, the licensing system, which is now also arbitrary, and the way in which you publish documents, so that people can appeal against them and object. It's about that kind of procedure. Then it's about legal protection. That's just gotta run. That is simply bureaucracy, but it must be set up. This applies equally to enforcement. We have that here too, in the European part of the Netherlands: you can have laws and regulations, but people do not always comply with them. How do you deal with that? So that is an important point. I admit that in the letter of 1 June I am going to go into this more concretely, because I really want to give that government Commissioner the opportunity to build that up with myself. We don't put that on paper here from The Hague overnight. It has to be a worn thing on the basis of which we can all say: this is what we want to achieve. Then it's not even higher math. In addition, the culture and the feeling that it is mature enough, but then it becomes more concrete. I have a feeling that's what you're looking for. A number of members, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Van Bijsterveld and Mr De Graaf, asked how we deal with the Council of State's suggestion to phase out. So that is actually a situation where you organise elections and elect the island council, but in which you leave the government commissioner in office for a while, for example, and invest the executive part with the government commissioner, yet you actually try to eliminate the democratic deficit. I can promise that I will look into the extent to which this is desirable and how it should be arranged. I do not have a concrete picture of that at the moment. I'm not ruling it out either. I think you should keep all the options on the table in that regard, but I think these are just things that need to be looked at in concrete terms over the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u54	I have a small suggestion, which is a little in line with the concern expressed earlier by Mrs Meijer. One might imagine that at a certain stage it becomes clear that you can already transfer certain areas to local democracy and not yet other areas, so that you build in a certain graduality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u55	Yeah, that's possible, too. That's true. You can do this more easily from a normal, stable situation than from the current situation. So I see this as a rather more theoretical possibility, because of course it is very difficult to do that from the situation we come from, partly yes and partly not to do so. Then you get some sort of gray area. The question is whether this is so clear to everyone, but it also applies to this: if the Commissioner for Government comes up with proposals or ideas that this would be desirable and if he is aware that it is appropriate, I will certainly look into it. It's really not like I've already completely drawn out what all can or can't be done. I'm also very practical. If that can count on acceptance and if we can arrange that, that is one of the options for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u56	I hear the Secretary of State say that, as far as he is concerned, it is not yet certain whether it can be done on the basis of this law, but that provision is made for it if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u57	Yeah, I think it's always the case that you want something political first or not. Then you're gonna see how you're gonna handle it. I hear very well here in the Chamber that I also heard yesterday in the House of Representatives that if that is worn, if that is needed and if that is appropriate, we need to amend the legislation accordingly and come forward with amendments. I'm very practical in that, too. With what is now before us, we are actually setting a kind of framework, in which a number of things have not yet been completed. I mentioned all the measures to be taken and the implementation of the Advisory Council. This is also a process that we all enter into. On the basis of the quarterly reports, which I am happy to give you, we can also follow how we are in that process: is it going in the right direction or not and at what rate? That's just a little tricky right now, because honestly, we don't even know how this will be received tomorrow. I'm gonna be in one of those town halls tomorrow, where the whole population is invited. I will address the people there in the spirit in which I also speak here: we want to build with you the future of Saint-Eustatius, and we need everyone to do so. I sincerely hope that everyone will have the confidence to do so and that they will participate, but of course you will never do so. This is always a risk assessment. I have faith in it, but there will also be critical sounds. It's up to us to prove otherwise. Mrs. Meijer asked me how I'm going to regain trust. That's a good one. You can only do that if you are sincere and honest in your approach and approach and at the same time simply deliver butter to the fish. I think that's the only way. I try to mirror it to myself: why, if I live there, should I have confidence? I wouldn't rely on just fine words from a secretary of state who comes to tell me what he's up to. I'd also like to think, "Let's see it." I therefore expect this attitude from the people of Saint-Eustatius: not only'show us', but also 'we are in'. Because we need all those people to develop the economy, to combat poverty, to protect nature, and the attitude that nature is an asset for the people there, instead of a stand-in-the-way. That is extremely important, because it is a beautiful island, but I feel that a number of people who live there hardly see the wealth of the island anymore. For an outsider, those who have been there will recognize this.It is potentially just a beautiful island, which is a mess in places where people just throw everything along the side of the road and where careless is dealt with natural values. If you want to attract tourists who come for these kinds of destinations and bring that money into the drawer, you will also have to invest in the quality. Mr Kok raised the issue of an autonomous country within the Kingdom. It's a public body now. It's not a country, but he's trying to imagine an autonomous country within the Kingdom. I would be happy to have that discussion and all the other discussions, but that seems to me to be something more for the debate that is yet to come. For your image, I have promised the House of Representatives that, although of course the committee makes recommendations, this is not my main priority in the coming months and that I really want to focus on improving the relationship, delivering and restoring trust. I am not going to avoid that other discussion, but it will not come before the summer, because I want it to depend on it as well. I do have that attitude, and I want to say that I want to talk to all the islands about their position and relationship, but I do want to respect the legislation we have agreed on. So we are not going beyond the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u58	May I ask you how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u59	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u60	Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u61	It's gonna be tight, but 15 minutes should do it, I think. It is relevant to mention the financial aspects. There are, of course, additional costs involved in the appointment of a government commissioner and the deputy and the administrative support around it. We expect these costs to be 2.7 million for this year and 1.8 million for 2019. Those costs shall be covered within the BZK budget. In addition, I said earlier: 5 million structuralally for all the BES islands, 47 million for the reconstruction of Saint Eustatius and then the funds to come. So my idea is that I can move forward on this for the time being. I do not say to those responsible in the professional departments that this is not necessary, but with these kinds of elements, the points that need to be made quickly now, money is not the biggest problem. Then there are questions about criminal investigations into the current administration and how it is handled. You will understand that I cannot say anything about that. That's not up to me; that's a matter for the D.A.'s office. Of course, it may be that the soon-to-be government commissioner is running into cases in which he says that this cannot be done when he goes through the administration. Then you can file a report and then it's up to the D.A. to determine whether or not there's a criminal investigation going on. I do not have any specific indications for this at the moment. The same applies to the idea of corruption that has been put forward; it was asked whether there was any major corruption. Yes, there is corruption in some sense, but that is not always corruption with great financial gain, as you can see in other places, but the system that people give each other something and get something in return is of course not what we want. In concrete terms, if there are cases where there are grounds for making a complaint, this will certainly happen. I will also pass that on to the Commissioner for Government, but I have no idea at this point that this is the issue. Mr. Ganzevoort asked about the island vriffier. He's got a point right there. This bill does not regulate the role of the Registrar as a supporter of the electoral college. You have a point to make. I suggest that this be taken into account in a repair law and that we settle this in an orderly manner. I think that's fine. I have answered Mr De Graaf's question about the Deputy Commissioner of Government. He also asked about the power of law giving the bill through the Chambers and the dissolution by KB. Those elections will be determined by royal decree. I will, of course, go through the process of reporting every quarter, including the Chamber in the steps I am taking and the intentions I have in this regard. I do the same on the basis of advice from the government commissioner. It seems to me to be the most practical way of doing that, through a royal decision. I do not think that the legislator, the chambers, should dissolve this law. That's not how the law's designed right now. If we come to the conclusion that we want to hold elections at another time or if we encounter any eventualities that go outside the framework now laid down in the law, then it is of course necessary to refer them to your Chamber by legislative amendment. At the moment, I think that we can do just that and that it is indeed up to KB to decide when the elections will take place and, in fact, the law will come to an end. Mrs Meijer asked about pensions. The transfer of the pension fund revealed that civil servants' pension contributions, including teachers, had been wrongly administered and had not been paid to the pension fund. There would still be a pension deficit. I can tell you that the restoration of the teachers' pension rights on Saint-Eustatius has been practically completed. Everything has been inventoried and the ministry of OCW will complete it in the coming months. All members of the pension funds will be notified of this by June at the latest. I can tell you about that. Mr Schalk asked how I deal with communication to the other islands. I have been in close contact with the governors of the countries and with the authorities of the public bodies in recent days, but also in the period before that. They have also informed their administrative colleges. Those lines are short. I have been to Bonaire very recently and they will return to the Netherlands in a month or two. Those contacts are close, I might add. I have communicated very openly about why we have submitted this bill to both chambers. There will always be effects, as I have just said, perhaps among the population. There are certain groups on Bonaire who are striving for greater autonomy or even independence. On the other hand, I'm just trying to stick to the facts. The moment there's good governance, I want to reward you, and if things don't go well, I want to help you. And if things really don't go well, we have all kinds of measures, like clues. These had no effect in the case of Saint-Eustatius, but they can still apply to the other islands. This is also the case every time we take such measures only in the interests of the inhabitants of the islands. We do not do that because we want to determine everything from the European Netherlands if necessary. We have agreed on certain legislation and instruments are included in that legislation. If one of the parties does not comply with this legislation, you should be able to use such an instrument. That is the framework within which we work. Mr Kok asked why the 2015 plan of action has not come to fruition. This has to do with the fact that the board of directors objected to this decision, this concept plan of approach, and the delegates refused to cooperate in the preparation and implementation of the plan. The authority and the island secretary were willing to cooperate. In the end, the Minister, my predecessor, declared the objection unfounded in 2015. And at the end of 2015, the board agreed to cooperate with the instructions. There hasn't been any follow-up since. I can't take back the whole history. I understand your question, but I am mainly working on how we can ensure that something happens now. You'll understand. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions. At least I have made a serious effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u62	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. One person has registered for this purpose. All the other Members of Parliament have said that they do not need a second-term contribution. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u63	Mr. Chairman. As chairman of this Chamber's Committee on Kingdom Relations, which is always very involved, I can thank the Secretary of State, on behalf of all the political groups, for his clear and convincing answer to our questions and for his honest assessment of the situation at Saint-Eustatius, including in the relations in The Hague. We also thank the Committee of Wise Men. We also thank the Secretary of State for his commitments to provide us with structural information on developments and criteria and to take our concerns into account, and above all for his decisive will to take responsibility for a real improvement in the situation in Saint-Eustatius and in the Caribbean for the sake of the citizens there. We wish him a great deal of wisdom in his visit to Saint-Eustatius and in the next steps that need to be taken. We also express our deepest sympathy with the citizens of Saint-Eustatius, in the hope that they will have a new confidence in the government and a new hope for the future of their beautiful island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u64	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I'm closing the discussion... Oh, no, the Secretary of State! Excuse me. I am so impressed by the words of Mr Ganzevoort that I thought: this is it. But I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. At the same time, I am pleased to note that so many Members of the Chamber are still present at this late hour of this important debate. You have the floor, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't miss the last one either. It also indicates that we are talking about a very special, exceptional law here. I experienced that feeling today and yesterday. Again, I stood here reluctantly, but I do feel that everyone is concerned with the Kingdom's relations and with the fate of the people there. I therefore see the acceptance of this law in the First Chamber as support for that line, as well as for the line and the mandate to better fill in that coordinating role within the Rutte III cabinet. After the words, it comes down to the actions. Thank you, Members of the Chamber, for your trust. Let me say to you that in any case, in the spirit of this law, but above all with the perspective that we want to do better for the people of Saint Eustatius, I am about to get on the plane and address the people tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-5.u67	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? You raise your finger, Mrs. Strike? You can ask for a vote. Yes, I see the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to vote. In view of the urgency of the legislative proposal, I propose that we vote immediately. Does one of the Members wish to give an explanation of vote? That is not the case. We're gonna sit down and get up.
