ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on nursing homes. I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport in our midst. I'm glad you're here. Two Members have signed off on this debate. That is Mrs Agema of the PVV and Mrs Bergkamp of D66. We will continue with those who have signed up for the debate and are present. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD. You have five minutes to speak. The same applies to the other members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good and loving care that feels as much as at home as possible. Everyone living in a nursing home in the Netherlands should be able to count on that. Fortunately that goes well in many places, but unfortunately it does not succeed everywhere. A further improvement in the quality of nursing home care is the task for the coming years. For that we have a quality framework. For this, this cabinet invests 2.1 billion euros in nursing care, and for that there is a programme of Minister Thuis in the nursing home. The effects of such a substantial investment must be closely monitored in the coming years. Before I go into that further, I have a number of questions about the cost prices and the documents which the Minister sent to the Chamber yesterday and today, because it is not common for the Minister to impose a policy on the NZa not to set tariffs for a particular sector. That there are questions about that, I understand. I would therefore like the Minister to answer the following questions. Why didn't the Minister sit down with the NZa right after the start of this cabinet to discuss the possible effects of the structural accounting of the 2.1 billion on current cost research? It follows from Article 7 of the Health Organisation Act that the NZa sets prices which should reasonably enable the sector to meet the quality requirements and quality standards in force. What makes the Minister think that the sector can reasonably comply with those applicable quality standards even with the current rates, i.e. without fixing the new cost prices? The program at home in the nursing home. The VVD welcomes the fact that the motion we tabled in the budget debate has largely been worked out in the programme. However, on an important point for us, we believe that the impact can be tighter. Then I'm talking about improving quality. I believe that the improvement in quality cannot be without obligation and that drivers should be assessed accordingly. The assessment of drivers works both ways for the VVD. Assess and reward if it goes well, but also assess and intervene if the quality remains structurally below the mark. By intervention, I mean really firm intervention. You don't just do that, but if the improvement isn't structural, then we have to go through with it. Research on research shows that good leadership is the distinguishing factor in those nursing homes where the quality is really substantially better. Therefore, my question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to ask the inspection to give the Supervisory Board a lead to intervene in the administration of a nursing home. For example, as far as my group is concerned, we are completing the cycle of assessment and intervention and we are giving substance to the agreement in the government agreement that quality improvement is not non-binding. Let me be clear. I sincerely hope that this will not be necessary, and I simply assume that this heavy medicine will never be necessary. 'Cause my picture of all those nursing homes is that there are drivers running around with the great ambition to do a little better every day. And we must also reward this, for example by making good examples visible. Or, and that is what the healthcare office has opportunities for, by giving more space in the agreements at the contract and the rates. But as I said, it's more than just euros. It's also about making frontrunners visible. 70,000 extra people for nursing care in the coming years. By comparison, that's as many people as there are living in the city of Almelo. A huge task in a tight labour market. A task within a total demand for staff in the healthcare sector of 125,000 people. The demand for nursing home workers will therefore inevitably also have an impact on the extent to which community care, hospitals and disability care are actually going to succeed in finding sufficient people. There's going to be competition for care workers. How does the Minister see this and what will he do about it? The labour market issue for the VVD cannot therefore be separated from innovation in nursing care; innovations that bring the ambitions of the quality framework closer and innovations that are labour-saving. In this area, too, there is already a lot going on in the sector, but these good examples need to be made more sustainable and scaled up. The program doesn't provide for it. Does the Minister see the possibility of making this sustainability and scaling-up a part of the programme? How do we pave the way for those nursing homes that are already doing well, but want to take another step with innovative ideas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. An interruption by Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u4	I fully endorse what Mrs Hermans says about the importance of innovation and that we simply have a huge challenge in attracting staff. The Minister is very clear in allocating the budget, of the 2.1 billion. He wants to use 85% for recruiting new staff and 15% for innovation. Now the question is, even if you see the state of the deficits we already have, whether that is realistic. Does Mrs Hermans agree with GroenLinks that it is perhaps desirable and also more effective to look again at the distribution between the 85/15 scheme now in force for the 2.1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u5	What I actually think is that it has to be an en-enapproach, because we just need more people. There are many nursing homes where there is real pressure on the workforce, which means that the workload for the people currently working in those nursing homes is very high. But this enormous task, as you said, requires innovation to at least follow a trail alongside it. If it is then specifically about the distribution of those resources, I think it is good that that distribution is now as it is. Let's get to work, I'd like to say. But what I do think is very important is that we link nursing homes where they are already doing very well, which may already be on the way in their composition, to nearby nursing homes or to nursing homes that share the same kind of specialism and run into the same problems. If they manage to take big steps together, we have to make sure that they get the space to do so and that they get the support they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u6	I take it in such a way that we should, above all, consider what we mean by innovation. We must interpret this as widely as possible, so that this cooperation is part of it. I understand that Mrs Hermans says 'let's get going', but I would appreciate it if we could look at what we are seeing over the years and not wait too long. Is it indeed possible to maintain this distribution, or is it desirable to update it? Does Mrs Hermans see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u7	I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet. We are going to invest incredibly much money in the nursing home sector and we have a very big task to do to improve quality. So I think we should follow that very closely and we should look very closely at the effects we are achieving and also at how the interaction between more staff and innovation can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u9	Last year, former Secretary of State Van Rijn made available the first 435 million for this year. That money needs to go to extra staff. That was also explicitly the agreement. 7,000 people should be hired for this this year. Now we also know that healthcare institutions and nursing homes have had to match hundreds of millions for years to make the rates cost-effective. Does Mrs Hermans consider it conceivable that some of this money will not be spent on additional staff in the future, but that it will be used to pay those non-cost-covering rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u10	The cabinet spends the 2.1 billion in nursing care to meet the quality requirements set out in the quality framework. There's a lot of staffing in there. So I also think that we have a duty to invest in this now. Fortunately, so does the Cabinet. We also need to keep an eye on whether these investments will achieve the impact we are aiming at, namely improving the quality of the nursing home sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u11	I'm sorry, but that's not an answer to the question. The first 20% of the 2.1 billion available to nursing homes will be spent this year and will be squandered in the rates. That's the 435 million. We know that nursing homes have been lacking in healthcare rates for years and that this money is being replenished from other budgets, especially from buildings. Then, of course, there is a great chance that nursing homes that are now getting this money into the rates are not going to take on extra people, because they are still suffering from those deficits from the past. What are the odds of Mrs Hermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u12	Just before this debate, a letter came in from the Minister. I read it in such a way that he says: with the cost research that is now being carried out, there is a real chance that we will have to adjust the macro framework for inpatient nursing care. Given that we have said that we are going to invest 2.1 billion, I find that a difficult message to explain. So I understand very well that the Minister is now writing: make a pass on the spot. I do, however, have the question, which I have just asked, which makes him think in the overall picture that the quality requirements can reasonably be met with these rates in the coming period. I agree with the questions you are asking, but I also think you should ask them to the Minister in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u13	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u14	They're always long answers, but they don't answer my question. This year, 435 million is already available. That money goes to the care packages, to the rates. We can't follow what happens to that money. So there's a chance that it won't end up with those 7,000 extra people in nursing homes, but that it's used to fill past deficits, to cover the cost with the fare. Do Mrs. Hermans know what I'm talking about? That risk is present because this money has been put into the tariffs and not, like the rest of the budget, will be spent on a quality plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u15	I think we both do mean something else. I read in the answer what happens to the 435 million. That was precisely the reason for my question: how does the inclusion of this amount in the rates relate to the cost study? In addition, the discussion that Mr Hijink means is perhaps playing at what point you are going to measure what the staff assignment is in a nursing home, and what task needs to be accomplished. I think that is a fair question and a fair discussion. That is why I welcome this interruption, because then I can add another question to the Minister. How will he continue the conversation with ActiZ about this in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u16	Well, an extra question for the Minister. Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Grandma's gonna have to notice. I'm not saying that, but that's what the Minister said when he decided and when he made it clear that EUR 2.1 billion will be made available to nursing homes. The question is whether grandma's gonna notice, or whether she might feel a little cheated, especially after the pile of letters we've had in the last few days. The Minister says that EUR 2.1 billion is available for additional staff. A deficit of about 300 million.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Nurses haven't been getting enough money for years. The NZa also says that there is overdue maintenance and that there needs to be more money. The minister says to the NZa: back in your booth, because I have a very nice plan for extra staff. He does not want his party to be spoiled and does not want the NZa to say that there has been a shortage for years, especially when it comes to the rates for care. The Minister would like that 2.1 billion to be for his party, for the extra people in the care. Mr. Chairman. So we don't know if Grandma's gonna notice there's any extra money. We've been sent into the woods by this minister, along with Grandma, for the past few days. We've seen that before. Seventy-seven thousand health care workers have been kicked out of business in recent years. That happened under the previous cabinet. Many of them we now need more than ever in the nursing homes. My question to the Minister is: how well can these people be brought back? Can he give us a break? How many extra people have been hired in the first six months? Will it work to get the two caregivers we'd like to see on every eight residents there? That's the goal. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if it's gonna work. Mr. Chairman. Of the 2.1 billion announced, 435 million has been put into tariffs by State Secretary Van Rijn. Is this money actually being spent on hiring extra people, or is it disappearing somewhere else? There's a fight between the minister and the NZa. Why doesn't he deliver the extra money needed for proper care? Or are the higher rates needed for the care packages going to be paid out of the extra resources, that is from the 2.1 billion? Is this jar being eaten piece by piece, or aren't we? Mr. Chairman. I don't understand why the Minister is so shady about this. Why doesn't he just give us an honest picture? Why doesn't he just tell us the truth, but he's overloading us with numbers that don't make chocolate? Why do we have to unravel this kind of thing with art-and-fly work, half an hour before the debate begins? In fact, I find that unheard of. Mr. Chairman. I certainly have the impression that this Minister wants to spend the same money twice. He also wants to spend the money on the rates, because it takes 300 million to fill the deficits. Nurses make up year, year out of money from the pot for buildings, for the chairs and the stones, to spend that on care. That's not the point. That's not what that money's for. The minister wants to spend the same money on the 2.1 billion for the extra people we need to hire in the nursing homes. But even this minister cannot spend the same amount twice. Mr. Chairman. Nurses need the extra money very much. The Minister himself says Grandma has to notice. Of course it is. But before care institutions get this money, they have to make a whole bunch of appointments, with the care office, with residents, with family, with Jan and alleman. These are very good plans, and I understand that, but do we not run the risk that a very large part of the budget will go to planning, and that this will cost a lot of money, rather than the money will end up in better care? Finally, Mr President. The nursing homes are closed; that is well known. It was a decision of the Kunduz coalition in 2012. In the meantime, it is widely recognised that this has been a capital blunder. Jesse Klaver also recently said that in a cafeteria. He said it was a typical drawing table policy, that he regrets being hairs on his head and that they should never have done it. The former alderman of the VVD in Amsterdam also said it was a very stupid decision. Tens of thousands of places in the nursing homes have disappeared. This has led to a variety of patching agents. We know the first-line quarters. We know the overcrowding of the emergency services, where many elderly people live who actually need a place in a nursing home. That problem will not be solved. There are patching agents, but there is no structural solution. The SP made a note, which we're going to discuss after the summer, about the care neighborhood. In our opinion, this is a great solution for all those elderly people who like to find a cozy, safe and caring place at home or in their own neighbourhood to grow old, in health and cosiness. I would like to say to the Minister, because that's what grandma's gonna notice. Don't send Grandma into the woods with the money she's gonna pay herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. As the third speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Sazias. She is a member of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a compliment to the Minister, because he does not lack any diligence. He has been working very busy with action plans since his arrival, such as One against loneliness and Home in the nursing home. Last week, the third part of the triptych, Langer's home, was added. Together they form the Pact for Elder Care. This pact should lead to better quality care for the elderly, which is prepared for the challenges of the future, as these are not limited by the increasing ageing population. Between living at home and the nursing home, the disappearance of many nursing homes and the tightening of the Wlz indication criteria for care and nursing homes have created a huge gap. A hole that needs filling. On a small scale you can already see that happening: you see new initiatives that deserve follow-up. Care homes new style, in which people have their own apartments, with their own direction, but with the possibility to use amenities such as a kitchen or a restaurant and the possibility to buy in care. The problem is that these kinds of initiatives are now mainly reserved for higher-skilled people who manage to organise them themselves or people with a big scholarship. We ask the cabinet what it will do to make this beautiful innovation possible for people with a small scholarship. Residents of nursing homes are entitled to a decent existence, with more attention, loving care and more welfare activities. Sensitive daily spending is at least as important for 50PLUS as good medical care. I find it so sad when I see people in a nursing home staring at themselves with their hands in their laps for hours without having anything to do. That's a real scare. The SCP reported last year in the report Happy in a nursing home? that 44% of residents would like to get out more often. A quarter of the inhabitants never even come out, because there is no one to pick them up or take them away. That's inhumane, isn't it? Does being able to go outside also form part of the quality framework? The aim of helping more people to work in health care has been there for a long time. This cabinet has allocated a lot of extra money, especially for nursing care. Of the many hundreds of millions more going to nursing care in the coming years, at least 85% should be earmarked for the use of additional staff. But what if those staff aren't available? And within that budget is there also room for internships? 50PLUS is concerned about the possible shortages in the rates for nursing home care, as shown by KPMG's cost research. That has just been discussed in detail. If that is the case, then the 50PLUS charges must be covered. It cannot be the intention that the additional money intended for the recruitment of staff will be partly leaking out to compensate for late maintenance. Mrs Ellemeet will be discussing this later. I would like to join both Mr Hijink and Mrs Ellemeet. The annual budget and accountability models allow us to monitor whether the quality is actually in order. Hopefully that will be done soon. But how many years does the minister think he'll need to roll out this system? Because what we are a little concerned about is whether making these models is not going to create an enormous amount of new bureaucracy. Of course, there is no need for more bureaucracy on the part of the care staff. I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. That was good in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u20	All right. Thank you very much, Mrs Sazias. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Kerstens, but I do not see him in the Chamber. Yeah, there he is! Mr Kerstens spoke on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u21	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. The first debate I had this morning began by apologizing for my vote. It's not because I yelled at the next round at the World Cup yesterday, but I have to get out of here regularly. That's why I was in the hallway. Mr. Chairman. Waiting lists for nursing homes. People who are discharged from the hospital this summer, but still need care and nowhere to go, not at the nursing home nearby, because of a shortage of nurses, and not at home, because of a shortage of home care workers. A sector calls for staff, which is answered by training with a student stop, a stop that is now, or at least at the end of 2019, under pressure; that is what we read of the week. An increasing workload. A higher and higher absenteeism. Employees who are told that they cannot go on vacation, who are put under pressure, are intimidated. Just a few recent examples, which make a debate with this minister today more than necessary. After all, he is responsible for good nursing care. And what does the Minister do? That's a bit of a change. Sometimes he says things aren't that bad: keep moving, people; there's nothing going on here. Sometimes, or quite often, the Minister presents a new programme, as his own ministry calls it in every press release. "The Minister presents a new program," as if you're watching a night of television. It's not necessarily bad; don't get me wrong. But sometimes instead of an action programme, you prefer action. It's not words, it's deeds. Perhaps the Minister has heard them as import-Rotterdammer. Whether it's Bulgarian home care organisations with Bulgarian employees who don't speak a word of Dutch but live in the home 24/7 with Dutch elderly and provide care without diplomas, for which those older than €2,500 per month, of which €500 will end up with the employee, or people with false diplomas in community care who sometimes give medication to sick people, or about all those things that I just started with: don't let it go, but deal with it. I would like to see a more active minister on all these points. He must not only make plans for later, but also now, so that we do not suddenly see, for example, in the middle of the summer, that there are insufficient beds and that people who get fired from the hospital are nowhere to go, except perhaps on the front page of the newspaper. Show force of effort. Sometimes the Minister does the same, as this week about whether or not to set new tariffs. While the advice is to raise these rates in order to get the basis in order, the Minister chooses to postpone, by overruling the Dutch Healthcare Authority and crossing the Chamber. That is all decisive, but just in the wrong way and perhaps also in the wrong direction. Mr. Chairman. I just teased the minister with all his plans and programs. A day no plan is a day not lived, I heard someone say the week and it seems a bit like that. However, I am pleased that the Minister is seeking support. He creates support, as it is called, and involves the field. However, I would ask him to realise that he will eventually have to deliver and that he will have to keep an eye on the coherence between all these plans. He must maintain and increase the coherence between the different sectors of care, because ultimately the patient, the client, is at the heart of the matter. He's gonna care about all those shots, walls and institutions. The client just wants to be helped, good, close and affordable. Finally, Mr President. In all the fuss we sometimes forget that a lot of things are going well and that a lot of employees are working day in, day out with heart and soul and with passion and understanding of things. There's a big compliment to that. Perhaps the Minister is familiar with it, I am sure, the Van Huis tot Huis project of the Anbo Association for the Elderly. In it, care professionals take a look at each other's kitchens, excite each other, stimulate each other and also learn from each other. That gives an idea of what nursing care looks like as well. Literally, because they do it through videos. I urge the Minister to disseminate such examples, particularly towards pupils, students and other potential employees, so that they know that working in care for the elderly is not always easy, but it matters very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Then I'll go to the next speaker. That is Mrs Ellemeet and she is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Politics must serve the care and not the other way around. The concern is not to be of service to politics and to make sacrifices because they are politically sound or because they fit better in the political picture. For nursing care, this supportive and encouraging role of politics is very important. It is not for nothing that we have found Chamberwide that nursing care can and should be better, and that we set the bar for good and loving care high. To do that, it is crucial that we listen carefully to the caregivers and the patients themselves. What do they think it takes? Part of the answer to this is recorded in the manifesto of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers. It takes more space and more rest for the nursing home staff to give attention to the residents. In addition, our health care workers make it loud and clear that they want more trust and that they want to get rid of the controlled distrust and bureaucracy involved. Finally, a study at the beginning of this year confirmed what we actually knew a long time ago, namely that the current rates are mainly insufficient for the increasing number of higher care packages. Nursing homes have filled the financial deficits for care with their reserves and with money intended for other important conditions of good care, such as housing. This is not a sustainable approach. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the final point. What is urgently needed is to provide a good and solid basis for loving nursing home care. By this good basis, I mean reasonable, real rates, which can cover the cost of care. Providing that basis is politically not sexy and perhaps a less appealing approach to talk shows. But it's so important. If the basis is in order, the following important step can be taken: the recruitment of new staff and the deployment of innovative forms of care. When the basis is in order, both the elderly and the employees have a pleasant living and working environment. This step cannot be overlooked in the ambition, which I share, to further improve nursing homes. I therefore call on the Minister not to close his eyes to the overdue maintenance that must be carried out. I also ask him to recalibrate the rates so that they really cover the costs and are adequately compensated for the exit of health offices. If he does not tackle this problem, then I can only conclude that he abandons the nursing homes and their residents. Then he puts his head in the sand for the real problems in the real world. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Then the call for more confidence and less control pressure. Disorder the concern, is one of the Minister's mottos. And yet a lot of rules come in with his nursing home plan. Let me give you an example. Healthcare providers need to establish a regional approach quality. It is then necessary to describe the policy plans, quality objectives and dots on the horizon for each location. These should not only be described, but also kept up to date and measured. In addition, care offices have different accountability requirements. This is not less, but more bureaucracy. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then there's something else I need to get off my chest. If we want to organise care in the right place, we have to get rid of the divisions between the different forms of care. We have to work literally and figuratively over the walls of the care areas. For example, knowledge in nursing homes can be used very well for elderly people who still live at home, but who will eventually make the transition to a nursing home. With the full package at home and the modular package at home, we have already made a first bridge between the domains. We want to continue the integration of care at home and nursing care. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Minister would like to cut back 55 million on VPT and MPT. Mr. Chairman. Why don't we put the nurses in the neighborhood, apart from vpt and mpt? This makes the profession more attractive and also facilitates access to the nursing home. The switch from home to the nursing home is a lot easier if the care, guidance and certainly the knowledge about the patient go along. Is the Minister prepared to explore possibilities of staffing nursing home staff outside the walls of the nursing home? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The Minister wants to work on personal care. That ambition is shared by my group. Taking personal wishes into account also means taking into account the cultural and religious background of people. Does the Minister share this view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van der Staaij, group chairman of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I get letters from a ruler saying "a conflict is not a question," I always wake up extra. Thanks to me: hey, then perhaps there is a difference of opinion. I'll go straight to that point. I would like to hear more from the Minister why he is disregarding the NZa cost investigation into new rates for the Long-Term Care Act. We hear that from all sides: at last recognition and recognition of the fact that the rates that nursing homes are now often faced with were no longer sufficient. That was because the care had become heavier and often more expensive. Sometimes the building components and such money were taken out for care. It would therefore be a good thing to follow the advice of the NZa and to increase the rates. Mr. Chairman. You'd say that financial space is there, because there's a lot of extra money in the books anyway to improve the quality of nursing home care. The way in which that money is being spent now raises a number of questions for the SGP. At first glance it seems nice that nursing homes should spend at least 85% of the extra money on additional care staff and up to 15% on other innovations that improve quality. More hands on the bed: who doesn't want that? That's what this is all about, isn't it? Yes, but in practice we are afraid that this demand can be very unfair. I'm taking you to the nursing home of Voormeaar. That's always looked after the pennies. It has enough staff and delivers the nose of the salmon to care quality. Their only concern is that they have a deprecated old building. Because they have spent years on their reserves and on their normative housing component in order to provide quality care, there is no or insufficient money for renovation. If they were allowed to renovate the building with the quality budget, this would result in a huge improvement in quality, for example more privacy for residents. Nursing House Prut With Pears, on the other hand, has been making a mess of it for years. The staff runs away by dysfunctional managers. Residents and the family complain about the food and the care. The only thing the managers had arranged well was an expensive modern building. My question to the Minister is: why will nursing home Prut Met Peren receive the top prize when they hire new staff, while nursing home Voormekaar won't get an extra cent? In other words, why is bad behavior rewarded and good governance punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u26	By raising that second nursing home, I understood a little better where Mr. Van der Staaij was going. At first I got a bit of the idea: isn't this a bit contrary to the motion you tabled on 2 November? In any case, you are arguing that this money, the EUR 2.1 billion, should mainly go to additional staff. Doesn't that play anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u27	It is certainly true that we are wide in the Chamber, the manifesto has already been mentioned, said: there must be more hands on the bed and for that it will help if extra money becomes available. It is also a good thing if, undoubtedly because of that extra money, you have more financial resources to hire people. It's more about the way you translate that now. That doesn't mean that you say: you have to shape it so that you only get the money if you can actually prove that you can take on an x-number of extra people. I also pointed out in the debate that it is my concern that, on the one hand, it is important to have extra hands on the bed but, on the other hand, we should be careful not to be designed so that good houses are punished and bad houses rewarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u28	But where do you get from the plan that that would happen? That is a bit said now, and I would like to hear Mr Van der Staaij's reasoning as to why that would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u29	For example, I draw that from the 85/15 rule. Concrete plans need to be submitted for this and it would be difficult if you could not make enough effort to accept a certain number of additional people. It would not be possible to qualify for that money. For the good nursing home that I used as an example, it would be very difficult to invest that money precisely in the modernisation of the building and to build that gap as it were. You could be fishing behind the net if you already have enough staff because you have spent a lot of money and attention on it, for example at the expense of the housing component. I just saw the minister shake no. I usually find it a pity when rulers shake no, but in this case I am actually happy with it if that means that what I say is wrong and that there really is more room in it. I am not the only one who understood it that way, because I also heard this when I made a call about these plans before this debate. Then I say to those people, "Are you happy with these plans? I love those letters, but... This is how it happens very often when I start calling, because that sometimes makes me look at those letters differently. In this round this was the concern I heard again and I hope that that care can be taken away tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u30	Finalizing, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u31	I hope so, too. But in that motion of 2 November, you are actually quite clear that the 2.1 billion must be spent on additional staff, because it must not be leaked into unnecessary bureaucracy, overhead, exorbitant salaries and pointless real estate projects. Now I understand a little bit about you saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr. Van der Staaij says so!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u33	Indeed, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then Mr. Van der Staaij bets the 2.1 billion for House Evenings that it's all doing well. With me that could be in a nice wing with a hug wall and some care robots running around. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u34	According to that 15%, those care robots could still be able to do it. That 85%/15% was more about the example I mentioned. That's really taken out of life. Those are the houses that really gave priority to those staff. That motion still stands. You mentioned all those points where the money should not go, and I still support this 100%: no pointless projects, no overhead and no bureaucracy. I totally agree with that. Widely in the Chamber, we also found in the past an important point that administrative burdens in the distribution of extra money should not increase. The Chamber has tabled and adopted motions in which it states that the cabinet would not introduce new administrative burdens by joining the quality plan in issuing the money and that both internal and external accountability should be carried out through the quality report. I ask the Minister if that motion will be upheld. I couldn't quite get out of the letters or it couldn't mean there's going to be a separate stream of accountability again. Indeed, it would be very desirable for this to be done through the quality plan and through the quality report. That is a real gain we have made in recent times in relation to the past. This was widely said: please do not all of us have these loose accounts and that diversity of plans, but let us really pool them together. That is why the question of the extent to which these motions and the starting point are justified. Finally, one point that I think I have already raised sufficiently in interruptions. We would like to have room for practice to see the 85%/15% rule not strictly as a straitjacket but also to offer tailor-made work for the institution, albeit in the final analysis within the quality framework for nursing home care. If you can make it plausible that what is being done really gives rise to an increase in quality, then space must also be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'm going to ask you a question to understand that. As I have read the Minister's programme, this 85/15 is indeed the starting point, the basis, but local customization is possible if you have a good explanation, a good explanation. Did you take that out of the plan, or are you looking for more than the space to make good appointments, that customization in the conversation with the healthcare office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u37	One: is the customization only in sliding between 85 and 15? That's how it seemed to me at first. Is it not also necessary to be able to finance other things, which really give rise to higher quality? That is one point on which I do have a question and on which I do not think the letter is clear. Another point of uncertainty about what space there is for customization has to do with what you heard in practice about, for example, the housing component. But that comes down to the same thing. So I actually had one point on which there is uncertainty. No, now it comes to my mind: the second point is whether the flexibility that is offered here will also be fully translated into the healthcare offices. I didn't taste the care or the health offices again putting their own filter on it. That was the second question: does flexibility sufficiently pass on to practice? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. The last first-term speaker, at least the first term of the Chamber, is Mr Slootweg, a member of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For vulnerable elderly people, depending on nursing care, there was good news last year. After years of austerity, money is added, an impulse in nursing care that rises to 2.1 billion in 2021. Why exactly this amount, and not 1.5 or 2.5 billion? Is that a random choice? No, that amount is based on a formula, and that formula is based on the Hugo Breast Standard: two caregivers on a group of eight residents. According to this standard, two caregivers are needed to give sufficient or, perhaps better, the necessary attention to vulnerable elderly people in order to be able to take care of them with attention. That is why the CDA is pleased that this Hugo, Minister Hugo de Jonge, has turned that standard into what I want to call an attention bonus in his program Home in the nursing home. The Ministry calls this a bit cold the "quality budget." Any nursing institution that ensures that it accepts more caregivers who contribute to giving attention can make use of this bonus. This minister also assumes trust: an institution receives the bonus with the confidence it is used to pay more attention to vulnerable elderly people in nursing homes. Those who watch the inspiring film series of the ANBO titled Van Huis naar Thuis, see that this care is already being paid attention with a lot of effort at the moment. It looks like this series was made as part of the program Home in the nursing home. In addition to this series of ANBO, which gives a good picture of the care in the nursing home, I speak with many residents, their family and care staff. The residents and the family are often satisfied, but would sometimes like to receive more attention from the staff. When I speak to the staff, they indicate that they would like to have some more colleagues in order to be able to give a little more attention to the residents. But I sometimes do not notice all of them in my conversations with some board members, let me say that they sometimes get a little upset. It suddenly seems that the main goal is to bring those euros in. People are trying to convince me how important it is to be able to use the quality budget for a smart planner. I would like the focus to be shifted to what my group really is about: focus on the residents, so that they get the care and attention they need. And for that at first you really need people and not care robots. For us, a number of questions are important and they are a bit along the lines of what has been asked before. How does the Minister prevent a huge bureaucratic circus from developing around that quality budget? I read that it is actually data that are already being asked out, but it may still seem to people as if there is an additional tax. And we know the Minister above all from the disruption of care. Is it possible to get more people interested in choosing a job in care for the elderly? Have a lot of hacks come in, for example ex-workers from V&D and Kijkshop? Have young people chosen the direction of care for the elderly before? Mr. Chairman. Every summer we are confronted with a lack of temporary nursing home beds. Carers, community care, home care and nursing staff go on vacation. The demand for care and support remains unchanged at best, but is most likely to increase. At the request of Mr Kerstens, the Minister for Medical Care sent a letter to the Chamber in response to reports in De Gelderlander, stating that part of the problem could be solved through regional cooperation. We wonder whether this is not a wonderful opportunity to investigate whether MBO nurses and HBO nurses could be involved in the last year of study in order to overcome these deficits. This system is already used by teachers: pabo-students are used in the last year to cope with the teacher shortages here and there. What is the Minister's view? This debate is also about occupying the wrong beds. In the case of emergency care, too often vulnerable elderly people who are no longer in a position to go. I was recently in South Limburg, at the home care organization Meander. They have entered into a contract with health insurers, which means that they are paid through a lump sum per client. During a crisis meeting about a recording stop in Zuyderland, at the end of 2016, they quickly came up with a practical solution. A special district team for acute care was set up and linked to the GPs and the emergency services of the regional hospital. In recent years, they prevented 160 elderly people from using hospital beds unnecessarily. This gives your elderly the right care in the right place. Is it true that South Limburg is achieving good results in preventing unnecessary occupation of hospital beds? Is it true that the funding system differs from home care and that it is much less bureaucratic? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. There is another interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u41	I would like to come back to the rates and budgets. Does Mr Slootweg believe that the 435 million available this year is a repair of inadequate rates over the past few years? Or does he think that's part of the quality program?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u42	I think that is part of the quality programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u43	Nursing homes note that there has been a shortage of rates for years, because there is a need to adjust the money that is actually intended for chairs and stones, so to speak. Does he consider that the structural deficit should be estimated at 300 million ECU before we can talk about the rest of the programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u44	I think there's really a difference in this. You are now acting as if the whole sector is facing shortages everywhere. I think that image is more nuanced. There are indeed houses where there are shortages, but there are also houses where there are not. I find it a little weird that there are differences between those two houses, Prut Met Peren and that beautiful house. I find it a little strange to take that away from the total quality budget, because that is a consequence of how you solve it. I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr. Hijink, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u46	For the record, I'm certainly not suggesting that. All I'm saying is you can't spend an amount twice. One cannot say on the one hand that 435 million is partly a repair of inadequate rates and, on the other hand, that the same amount is a first step towards the quality programme. I think this is what the minister does. Of course, that's not possible. The same amount bets twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u47	I would like to hear the Minister's view on this. I read it in such a way that the 435 million in all plans is part of the quality budget and that is not a turnoff. I think that there are nursing homes where these shortages occur, while there are also nursing homes that, with the same money and clients with the same care gravity, have it well in place. I would rather investigate why we can do it in one place and not in the other, rather than apply some kind of weird redistribution of the collective resources that we make available to more staff. I'd like to hear it from the Minister, but I don't think this is what was written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr Slootweg is now playing down very much the research that KPMG has done on the inadequate rates. It's too easy to say: you have well-functioning nursing homes, who make a living, have money for housing and care, and have their business in order. The study shows that in the case of several care packages, the actual cost is much higher than the rate. That is the case for all nursing homes. Properly functioning nursing homes should use their housing budget to cover healthcare costs. That is a very broad problem. You can't divide that into a problem for just the poorly functioning nursing homes. I'm afraid it's not like that. I would ask Mr Slootweg to take that thorough investigation a little more seriously and to take Mr Hijink's question to heart: what are we doing with that deficit? This is living very widely in that nursing home sector. Shouldn't we solve that before we can take the next steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u49	But I have a counter-question to ask Mrs Ellemeet, Mr President. Is the proposal, then, to simply take away 300 million from the quality budget and to have fewer staff? I shall now turn to the motion that your group chairman has also written: that 2.1 billion is really meant for additional staff. I understand very well that you say: choose on my side and cable. I will answer that the houses should look carefully, because we have a very large budget. There are houses that perform well and there are houses that do that less well. I really want us to see how we can get to the level of the best-performing. I would not want the quality budget to be used for that. That's my choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u50	We've said Chamberwide that we want the quality of nursing homes to go up. For that extra staff, extra hands on the bed, is extremely important. We then made a calculation and ended up with that 2.1 billion. Mr. Slootweg also mentioned the formula we used. That's exactly what we're gonna do. Subsequently, recent research shows that there is a wide deficit in the sector. Then we must be realistic and establish that this is now the reality and that we must solve that problem if we are to be able to take the next steps. We cannot and must not close our eyes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u51	So Mrs Ellemeet's answer is that we are taking the 300 million out of 2.1 billion. Am I to understand that this is her proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u52	What I'm saying is that this problem needs to be solved. If we do not solve the problem of these deficits and continue to appeal to the housing budget and reserves for investing in good care, then that is not a sustainable approach. In the end, we are not going to provide good nursing care. We have to face that. We have to do something about that. That's the reality of today. We will have to do that first. We need to make a budget available for that. Then we can work on the ambition of more hands on the bed and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u53	I note that Mrs Ellemeet is saying that we are going to cut off the EUR 2.1 billion of 300 million to solve this problem. However, there are also houses that have come out with their budget. This means that we say to well-functioning houses that they receive less staff and less attention. I think that is what Mrs Ellemeet is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u54	I think the agreement is that whoever commits an interruption should ask the speaker a question. Now it seems to be happening the other way around. In any case, I am now giving the floor to Mrs Ellemeet for a final question or answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u55	The basis for good care, also for good nursing home care, is located in fair rates. Mr Slootweg and I will agree. Fair rates offer the opportunity to offer good care. Research has shown that the rates we are currently working on are not sufficient. Then we must conclude together that the basis is not in order and that we will have to do something about it before we can take next steps. I think it would be fair and chic if Mr Slootweg admitted: this is the reality now, we have to solve that problem, we have to create that good basis and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u56	It's always a shame when you're put up as unfair and not fancy. Anyway, that's just the way it is. We need to look at the level of nursing homes that are currently in deficit and at the level of nursing homes in the same situation that have come out well. We will have to bring the nursing homes with shortages to the level of the nursing homes that do come out with their budget. I wouldn't take that off the 2.1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Then we have come to the end of the first term of the Chamber. The Minister would like to prepare his answers in his first term. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u58	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport to answer the questions asked to him and everything else he intends to share with us in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the questions that were asked in the first term. Today we are discussing the Home in the nursing home programme, the cabinet's approach to the quality framework for nursing home care, which really entered a new phase at the end of the previous period as regards the development of the quality of nursing home care, in practice for all elderly people who can count on it. There have been a lot of debates on nursing home care. I have a strong impression that the nursing home sector has now changed. If you go on a job visit, and the members will do so, you will notice how passionate it is to make quality a reality and to make it visible. Indeed, I have already said that this is the intention. Grandma needs to know, that's how I put it, but that's what I'm talking about. If we do not do our job in such a way that the people we do it for actually notice it, then we simply do not do our job well enough. That is the crux of the matter. For this reason, in the translation of the quality framework, what does this mean for the procurement of care and for the improvement plans that are being made? No non-binding choices. The free will goes off and choices are made that actually lead to that change of reality. I think that's the idea. In the programme we choose three lines of action. The first line is more time and attention for the residents of the nursing homes, more time and attention for his or her well-being with more caregivers and more insight into the quality per location. The second line is a regional labour market approach and a reduction in administrative burdens. For example, we provide enough people who are motivated and skilled in the nursing home sector. Finally, it is about promoting learning, improving and innovation. This is a key element of the quality framework. We do this through Dignity and pride, the improvement approach developed during the previous cabinet period, by translating to the level of each individual location. Every individual location needs to be a little better tomorrow than it was yesterday. We do so by the commitment of Dignity and pride on location. The first results are already visible. They are visible when you go on work visits, but also visible in the publication of ActiZ, Results from the nursing home, in which drivers tell what they do with the extra resources that have gone to the nursing homes in recent years, the 435 million, and what has already been done before, what has been achieved with them. I suspect that we will look into that in a moment. I would say that the steps that have been taken are already being noticed. In previous debates, a number of motions have been adopted which have already led the Chamber to translate the quality framework into a way of ensuring that the quality framework actually becomes a reality for the people in the nursing homes. A motion-Roemer wasn't unimportant. A motion Hermans was not insignificant. I may not be allowed to say again that he was quite bulky and quite precisely in the instruction, but I will do it anyway. The Van der Staaij motion was more about the accountability burden. I will traditionally divide the questions of the Chamber into a number of cubes. The first is organization and monitoring. A number of questions have been asked about how quality plans work and how accountability works. I want to do that in the first block. Then I come to a block about the labour market. A number of questions have been asked. A single question has been asked about finance and cost research. That's what I was gonna do in the third block. Then I was thinking of a cube of varia. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the organization and the monitoring. In 2021, care should be noticeable, measurable and palpable better in every nursing home and in every location for residents. That's where we grow step by step. Actually, every location should be a bit better the next day than the previous day. A number of examples have been mentioned, for example by Mr Kerstens. He mentioned the series of the ANBO. Mr Slootweg also referred to this. Those are indeed very nice examples. I think you could easily complement these examples on the basis of everything you come across. We actually want every institution and every location to take steps towards meeting the quality framework that has been established. The approach we have chosen here is actually very simple. This is in line with the motion tabled by Mr Van der Staaij with a number of colleagues, who says: let the basis of planning and the basis of accountability in a year's time simply run as much as possible in sync with what they had to do anyway. That is why we have opted for a quality plan that the sector had already commissioned itself through the quality framework. We have actually said that that quality plan should simply be the basis for the procurement. Otherwise, you could have a plan being drawn up and all kinds of activities still have to be done before purchasing. That quality plan should just be the basis for the procurement. So that's one plan. The quality framework also states that the plan must contain an improvement paragraph per location. So that's what we're doing. So that's what we ask in the purchase. This is a quality plan per institution and an improvement plan per location, with a budget. Because we have chosen to do so, and I shall come back to this in more detail in order to work with a quality budget per institution. Why do we do that? It has often been said: the sector as a whole needs 2.1 billion, but today's nursing homes do have a different route to go. So we have said: there will be a quality plan, with an improvement plan per location and a budget that will also make it clear how the increase in resources is needed to achieve that quality plan. So that is a proposal from the institutions themselves. On this basis, care offices will make available a quality budget for the coming years. For example, the increase in funds for the coming period is the first 435 is simply made available by means of a quality budget in order to deliver on the institution's quality plan. In this quality plan we are talking about the organisation, the staff structure, the way in which personal and personal care is provided, the improvement point per location I mentioned, a description of learning and improving in the coming years, and finally that budget. On the basis of the quality plan, the healthcare office and the healthcare provider then conclude an agreement on the additional staff to be hired and the investments in quality. In the end, that is the responsibility for it. A quality report must be produced. That's not new. This is already coming from the quality framework, in which institutions have said that it would be wise to have a quality plan at the front and a quality report at the back to be accountable. So we have said that the responsibility for purchasing must also take place. That should not be a separate accountability document, but it should simply be the quality report. For example, there is a high degree of consistency in the plans and in the accountability of those plans, both in the context of the improvement approach and in the context of procurement. For an institution, that is one course. In this way it is possible to make the improvements in the institution as consistent as possible and as quietly as possible through a single cycle. Then I come to a number of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u60	Yes, but in advance of those questions there is an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Minister is now presenting it, it does indeed sound very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u63	But I also hear that in practice it is more uncomfortable. It starts at the locations. Of course, there are a lot of care institutions that have a lot of very small locations. So there is a lot of uncertainty about when something is now a location, and whether you need to make a separate improvement plan for every six housing units that form one location together. In practice, it means a lot of work for some health care institutions, in the front. At the back we also hear that health offices have different accountability requirements. So there may be a general agreement that this is not the case, but unfortunately it is in practice. So the practice is more uncomfortable than we might all want it to be. What does the Minister intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u64	The practice is about to begin. It would be special if there were practice already, because we have recently established the Wlz purchasing framework, after very good consultation between ActiZ on the one hand and Healthcare insurers Netherlands on the other hand. What I've just explained is the rhythm. We have been thinking about the Quality Framework Nursing Care, starting from the fact that it is only good enough when people have noticed some of it. Then you actually have to look at what the unity of change is, and so calculate back. The level of the institution is indeed important. The board sits there and there is directed to the quality of the institution. There is also the final responsibility for quality, so of course a plan of action, an improvement plan and a quality plan at the level of the institution is important. But in the end they do not belong to that institution, but they are all at one of the locations of that institution. That's why it's important to say that that's actually the most important unit of change. This also fits perfectly with how the quality framework was designed. It says: one quality plan per institution, and one improvement point per location. So if you have ten locations, you have ten improvement points. That then makes it possible to get to that location... That was part of it, too. I hadn't gotten to that yet, so let me tell you right away. When you come to the level of each individual location within the framework of Dignity and pride at each location, that improvement approach, it makes it possible to say: what is the plan for this year, what goals have you set yourself, with the staffing, the number of people you need to reach those goals, what measures do you take? That is relevant at the level of each individual location, because otherwise it still stays a bit in the abstract at the level of the institution. So in that location-based approach in the improvement approach Dignity and pride at every location, but also at the level of the quality plan is important that you keep the location level in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u66	We are indeed going to do it, but it is the first signs of incomprehension that I am talking about: how am I supposed to point that out, when is something a location, I have a lot of small locations, what isn't all about bureaucracy for me, and we are getting signals from the health offices that they are going to set separate accountability requirements. That is the unrest I am getting back; let me put it this way. I imagine you want to know what the plans are and you have to answer for them. But of course we cannot be expected to spend a lot of time in all those locations with different demands and accountability reports. I'm a little afraid of that. I want to keep us from getting to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u67	I get that. In order to prevent this, we have agreed with all healthcare agencies one Wlz purchasing framework. That one Wlz procurement framework is extremely clear on how to do it: one plan per institution and one improvement paragraph in that plan per location. That's not very bureaucratic. The alternative is nothing per location. I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet has a final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u69	Rounding up. The purchasing framework is unambiguous. That's what the health care agencies have to stick to. They should not be subject to separate accountability requirements. It seems very important to me to be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u70	Sure. That's why we make those appointments. We have had the discussion on the responsibility for 2018 before. About 2018 the purchase agreements were actually already made when the cabinet joined. Last time in an AO I said in your direction that, of course, the budget for 2018 is intended for staff and that we naturally want to see it reflected in accountability. But for 2018 that recovery agreement was not made. It is not contractually anchored, apart from the normal contractual requirements that money should always be spent efficiently and lawfully. If you haven't, there's always a basis to recover. But we have not made any recovery arrangements, for example, in relation to the 85/15 percentage. We didn't do that about 2018. We'll do that about 2019 and then we'll do that. The responsibility for 2018 will therefore be a little less precise. We do make agreements with Zorgverzekerings Nederland and ActiZ about how this responsibility should look. About 2019 and beyond, we also make agreements on what that accountability should look like. What we have to do is work according to the plan. The aim is the quality framework. The plan is the one we planted at home in the nursing home. The intention is indeed a clear public responsibility for this. But the intention is not to hire all monks who are rotting. That's not the point. We are going to work along that directive. Anything that is not fully crystallized will now crystallize. A number of questions have now been asked by the suppliers about the procurement framework. They'll be answered by the health offices again. That's how it's all gonna take hold in the next few months. Then to Mrs Sazias' question: how many years does the Minister think he will need to make these monitoring models possible? That gave me a lot of space, because on the basis of this question I could have a number of years. But I think you meant it more precisely. On June 25th, so this week, I informed the Chamber about the arrangements made for the care purchase. I just said that: the WlZ framework. We have made clear agreements on the monitoring of the quality plans submitted. In spring I must say: the late spring of 2019 I can say something about this. Those plans can be submitted until December. They will be analysed in the spring. If I know what the plans for 2019 look like, I will inform your Chamber. If we have the responsibility for 2018, I will inform your Chamber as well. I don't know if that's gonna be at the same time. It could be. But a first statement on the staffing and implementation of the quality plans can be reported in the spring of 2019. In addition, one is of course busy making a good set of mirror information. That's an assignment the Healthcare Institute has had from us, along with the NZa. The intention of this is, in line with the Van der Staaij motion I just mentioned, that you should prevent all kinds of parties from probably just, for a good reason, but again need another set of information to keep an eye on that. That all means different questions at the nursing homes and that, of course, drives them crazy. So what we agreed in the plan is that there will be one set of indicators. That set is in development. A number are already certain: client satisfaction, employee satisfaction. But there is one way of asking out and actually one question out, so that you can use that set of data again in different ways. Mirror Information for Dignity and pride on location, mirror information for inspection for example. Mirror information, or rather "more choice" information for relatives looking for a place for their father or mother. So ask out once and use that information for all other purposes for which you would need that information. This, too, is intended to reduce the administrative burden on institutions. But let's both stay sharp, because this often starts with the best intentions, but can become a Christmas tree where all kinds of balls are hung. So let us be very clear that the implementation will take place in accordance with that intention. Then Mr Van der Staaij. Does the flexibility offered in the 85/15 also work in practice? Of course. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal This is not how the contractual agreements were made. On 2019 and beyond. The reason for this is, by the way, twofold. One is that your Chamber has adopted a motion, the Roemer motion, which says that the extra money for nursing homes should not be put into bureaucracy, not into buildings, but into people, because care is given by people. I feel very at home with that. The second reason is the 2.1 billion. It was calculated by the NZa at the time on the basis of the quality framework. It has been calculated because a staff standard has been included in the quality framework. So that's calculated using assumptions about the additional amount of staff needed to meet that quality framework. That is why I firmly believe that, in principle, this additional money is intended for staff. I think your room has always said the same thing. We recorded that 85/15 because you also have to be realistic: there are also more costs to be incurred. If you're gonna hire a lot more staff, you're gonna have to put someone in charge sometime, for example. Or you might indeed think that an additional investment in housing in itself can also help. But let that be limited. So that 85/15 was very consciously chosen for that reason. Is there flexibility? Yeah, but I'd really like to do that this way. In the care purchasing framework, that 85/15 is simply laid down. On this basis, the institutions make plans and the health offices make purchasing arrangements with those institutions. "Comply or explain" applies. But "comply or explain" is not: see how much space we can find in the expanse. "Comply or explain" means at first simply comply. At the same time, you must always want to do things according to purpose, and with common sense. So I am not going to prescribe in what situation and in what situation. You're not getting out of that at all. If the continuity of an institution is in danger, yes, it would be very stupid not to seek some more space in that percentage distribution. I can imagine a number of situations, but I'm not going to sit here in The Hague with my knees underneath the desk. What I do is agree on this rule, this basic rule, and then say to health care institutions and health care offices: according to purpose and with common sense. This means that I assume that the outcome will be broadly Modo 85/15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u71	An interruption by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u72	Thank you for the presentation by the Minister. But does "follow it or explain it," "comply or explain" mean that a plan for a house that meets staff standards, but which is urgently in need of renovation, is promising? Or are you saying: sorry that you used that money for that housing component in the past to hire staff because you used to think it was so important, but now it stops and you can't call on additional resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u73	Then, of course, you will have these two examples in mind, but it will not be easy for an entire institution that will apply once to a department to comply fully with the staff standard. That is my first hesitation in that example. It was a bit black-and-white. What was the term again? I've lost the term. The fucking nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u74	It was the house Prut Met Peren and the house Voormeaar, but I'd like to make that something Dik Voormeaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u75	A lot of houses are well done, but to meet the staff standard as a whole will not be easy for houses. That is the first thing I would like to say. The second is that we have a completely different arrangement to expect from us. That's where the inspection goes on top. That's a whole different chapter. It is often so, but reality is a bit in between here with all kinds of gray tones. To this end, the additional money is intended to comply with the quality framework. That quality framework has a staff standard. The 2.1 billion has been calculated on the basis of that staff standard. So the purpose of that money is people. I understand that in the end someone has to lead sometimes and that other choices can also be made, for example labour-saving innovative choices that could lead you to a little less people in the future. You must all want to give room for that, but my impression is next and then I get to the financial block pretty soon. Those pluses are pretty big for the coming period. In fact, you keep saying: out of the 600 million for next year, you take 15% of the 600 million for the following year, so you take 15% of the next year, you take 90 million, so you take the 510 million after that, you take that 15% over again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u76	Yeah, now he's getting exciting!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u77	...is also quite... Yeah, 75, I think. Saved by the chairman; I just had a few seconds more to think longer. Those are serious amounts, so I think that all the other intensifications can be done very well. I'm just saying, the plus is very big in the years to come. This also has to do with the choice we have made with regard to cost research, but I will explain this in a moment. The choice has been very conscious to ensure that we could spend the quality budget in this way, coupled with the quality plan, and that there is room for customisation. Of course, but the guide is........................................................................................................................................................ In the end, therefore, there can always be derogations from this. I'm not going to say exhaustively when and when. There will also have to be a single institution at 90/10 or 95/5, because the human task there is so great. I think it is important that that is the normal purchasing conversation, tailored, at the level of the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u78	Does that mean that this area of common sense does not stand in the way of making investments other than human investments, if they really lead to a strengthening of quality according to quality standards, if they serve the quality framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yes, that space is there, but you hear me a little hesitant every time. If I say "Of course, Mr. Van der Staaij," which I usually like to do, don't get me wrong, then I know that "comply or explain" will be interpreted as "we're just going to explain it very well." Then I'm doing something different from the point of view. It was supposed to be staff money. The intention was that we would provide more time and more attention to the people in the nursing homes. Debate on debate took place during the previous period. They also didn't shine in all the nuances that there were to tell about the nursing homes at the time. But there has been debate on the subject: the quality had to increase, the number of people in the care had to increase. So that's the point. And that's what we're gonna do. Next, I say, never turn off your common sense. Of course there is always room for "comply or explain." But in that order and each time with those two words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Van der Staaij, finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u81	Finally, Mr President. I understand that reasoning. In general terms, as a total picture, I can certainly share that where you are far from meeting personnel standards. The only thing I would like to insist on: if you have already given priority to keeping the staff in order, you should not be punished and run against a limit if you want further quality improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u82	I get that. No, I think that's a bit of a special frame anyway. No one's being punished at all. There is an incredible amount of extra money available in the coming period. Once again, we can feed together those institutions that are already fully in line with the staff standard of the quality framework. There is therefore work to be done for the whole sector. Let's do that work first and then see if we need additional space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u83	Please continue your speech, at least after Mrs Ellemeet's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u84	Nevertheless, a question following the Minister's explanation of Mr Van der Staaij's question. A lot is being mentioned now. The Minister states that there is a lot of room within that 15% to do anything. I mean, that's not nothing, and it's true that these are huge sums. But in my view, the Minister is also keen to use this money for innovation. Now innovation is a very interesting word, because people can have very different ideas about what innovation is. If you're gonna explain that, you're gonna come a long way. However, it would be a pity if we did not use the very substantial budget for innovative forms of care. I think that's a bit different than building another wing. So just a little more sharp: did I understand the Minister that he really wants to use that 15% for innovation for innovative forms of care and not for, to name but a few, housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u85	If I were to go along with that, the use of that 15% would also be reduced, and I actually wanted to leave it at that. So I wanted to say that 85/15 is the spending obligation for these additional resources, for the quality budget that is added every year. I'm not gonna label what's and isn't allowed out of that 15%. Everything must contribute to compliance with the quality framework. Innovative solutions contribute greatly to this. It should also be noted that this is not the only thing, because there is really substantial money available for the sector in the near future. This is not the only one; you can also see this in the financial table on page 35. For example, the funds for Dignity and pride also amount to a further 130 million a year, and from 2020 onwards 180 million a year. Of these, too, anything can happen, on location, for improvement. The development budget set aside regionally is also another 50 million per year. This is available for innovation, also across the houses, but more regionally. It seems to me that there is enough room in the coming years to give substance to this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u86	In this sense, I find it reassuring that the Minister says that 15% should contribute to the quality framework. This innovation is therefore about innovative forms of care. That is still very broad, but that is quite different from investing in stones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u87	Yes. But if a stone is purchased for that, I'm not going to say that I shouldn't have. The quality framework must be complied with. One simply has the budget of 2018. The first step of the 2.1 billion is already in there. You could say that the two first steps, the 100 million and the 335 million, together 435 million out of 2.1 billion, are already in the rate for 2018. That's a hell of a budget, bigger than what it was. What is important for the coming years is that we give institutions the room to comply with the quality framework. To this end, they shall draw up a plan with a budget. That is the basis for the purchasing arrangements that are made with the healthcare office. That is where the qualitative conversation should take place: does this contribute to meeting the quality framework? Yes, of course I hope for many innovative solutions. I would also like to comment on the questions put by Mrs Hermans on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u88	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u89	I think I have answered the questions about control pressure and about flexibility around 85/15. Then I come to the next block, labour market and innovation. Let me grab it in one block. There's gonna be a lot more money available for the nursing home sector. That's what's needed. That money is meant for staff. But, of course, several groups have rightly pointed out that it is not the only sector and not the only public sector that needs a lot of people in the future. The nursing home sector will therefore have to do so in competition with other sectors. We have not yet been able to fully discuss the Work in the Care programme, but we have already thought about it a number of times. That programme shows that if we continue to do what we did and do nothing else, the deficit in 2022 will be about 100,000 to 125,000 people. Of these, 70,000 people or 40,000 FTEs are due to the financial benefits from the nursing home sector. If you let that kind of astronomical numbers work on you, you can actually get abdominal pain. So that's what we have on a regular basis. But, of course, we turned that abdominal pain into action. Here's what we're gonna do. A regional action plan is currently under way in each region, in which people are being recruited in all possible ways. Then it's about the influx from the schools. Then it's about the side-instromers. Then it is about re-enterers, people who have ever worked in care, have been trained for that and could possibly be tempted to do so again. Then it is really about getting everything out of that region to provide an appropriate response to the replacement question of the coming period or to the new job vacancies that will apply as a result of complying with this quality framework. For this, 350 million is available. 320 million is earmarked for these regional action plans. Of these, the bulk is for the nursing home sector, and also from funds that have really been made available to care for the elderly. So we are going to bet a lot on that, because it takes a lot of effort. That is apart from the 2.1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u90	I had just asked what happened to the 77 000 people who flew out of care under the previous government. That's a lot of people. The minister gets abdominal pain in finding 70,000 new people for work in nursing homes. I have never noticed as much abdominal pain in the previous government as it was in the discharge of 77 000 people. My question is actually: what is the situation with regard to the recovery of these people, and what is the situation with regard to the extra growth that is now needed and which has been announced by Van Rijn for this year? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u91	I cannot currently give an actual picture of how many people have already been hired this year. I hope to give an overview of 2018 in spring 2019. I just said that in the direction of Mrs. Sazias. That will be a less sharp picture than you will get in 2020. This has to do with the contractual agreements that are underneath. This Wlz purchasing frame is a lot tighter than the previous one. That's one. Two is that we have not yet been able to carry out this debate on Working in Care sufficiently thoroughly, but that is the basis for regional action plans to be made in the region. In it everything is pulled out of the closet, from all angles and holes. So it's also about convincing re-enterers to go to work in healthcare. These could indeed be people who have worked in healthcare in recent years and could not stay there then, but who now have another chance in health care. I sincerely hope that we can convince some of those people of their old job again, because we just need everyone. I hope that works. I also hope that all kinds of creative solutions will emerge in the region to ensure this. We will at least make them financially available, and we will also test those plans that are being made in the regions to see if they really are an adequate answer to the question that exists in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mr. Hijink, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u93	What I often miss about these kinds of answers is some understanding for people who are rather suspicious of the employers in the care, but especially towards the government, when it comes to the question: if I go to work in the care, do I have a job in which I have a future? That's what they thought before, until we had to cut back and 77.000 people were fired. We still see it happening in home care, for example in the regions of Nijmegen and Apeldoorn. There again the jobs of hundreds of people are being soldered. Of course, such examples do not make working in healthcare very attractive. I do not want to put all doom scenarios here, but because such a huge group has been fired and I do not hear any concrete proposals to get those people back, a lot of people don't have the feeling: yes, that works in the care, there I have a future. I just hope for more understanding and a little more empathy to approach these people to go back to work there, because we need them very much and because of course it's fantastic work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u94	Yes, we have had that exchange in the debate before, and I have said it before. Of course, I understand that it is a special story for people who have been fired in recent years to hear how much everyone is needed again. Yes, of course I understand. But that is without prejudice to the fact that there is no sector that needs people so incredibly badly. And that doesn't stop. That was not resolved at the end of this cabinet period either. Look at the demographics, look at the huge demand in the care, which will increase. We just need people for the next few years. How can I give the Chamber the best possible insight? I wrote in the written answer to your question about the Work in Care programme that I can send a first progress report in October. I will mention, for example, the number of vacancies and the latest figures on employee satisfaction. That's the kind of numbers that's in there. But keeping in real life keeping track of which of the people who have ever been fired in the past period is now back in a nursing home, is a type of monitoring that I cannot provide for. I don't want to raise any false expectations about that. I can't provide for that. That is not necessarily necessary, because it is important that we keep a finger on the pulse along the line of planning and accountability in the nursing homes or that the budget that goes extra to the nursing homes is also drawn up in accordance with the Roemer motion, so to the people in the care. That was the intention. That's one. The second line is that we can say to each other about our abdominal pain about the labour market: fortunately, everything is being done to prevent that, and fortunately, we see deficits falling. Yeah, or we'll see them increase, but then we'll have to adjust. So we are trying to get that picture as precise as possible. I've managed to share that with your room at least twice a year, I promised you. Sometimes there'll be numbers that we only change once a year, but okay. By then, we should discuss whether this is also the monitoring you would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u95	Thank you. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u96	Yes. Mrs Hermans asks how I will continue the discussion with ActiZ on zero measurement in the development of the workforce. The conversation with ActiZ and Zorgverzekerings Nederland was of course about the approach at home in the nursing home. We have discussed this very intensively and this is the result of it. Then we talked very intensively about the Wlz procurement framework. You have seen the result of that. There are sharp agreements in there. What we are still talking about at the moment is the question of how the responsibility for 2018 takes shape. So it's about: what's the calibration moment, the survey moment? Of course, that's just the end of the year, because that's what you have to do per calendar year. Then the question is whether you do so at the level of FTEs or at the level of the total wage bill. If I'm too detailed, you'll have to correct me. Then you have all kinds of technical obstacles in the design. That's what the conversation's about. So of course, we do everything together with ActiZ and Zorgverzekerings Nederland, because we have to avoid living together in a paper reality. So we have to do things that don't lead to the adoption of monks to go tumbling. We have to do things that actually answer the question we have, namely: is the money being well spent? That's the idea. Working according to intent, that's what we have to do. And that's what we're having a conversation with ActiZ about. In addition, it is of course about the further filling. The Zorginstituut has been commissioned to obtain the mirror information in a good way. Of course, they do that with all actors in the field, including ActiZ. Then there is competition in the labour market. I said something about that. When I look at what the CPB said about it, I still think it's gonna be really hard work. We've got to get everything out of the closet. But before we throw the towel in the ring, we really need to have the conviction that we have done everything to ensure that we get all the vacancies filled. And I am certainly not there yet, because I see in one region beautiful plans are being carried out, while I do not yet see them in the other region and vice versa. So we can still learn very much from each other and we have not yet done the best we can. Until we can say this to each other with conviction, I think we should stick to the will to take care of all the extra people we need, no matter how difficult that may be. That is actually also an answer to Mr Slootweg's question as to whether more people can be interested in a job in health care. Have you had a lot of squirrels coming in? Have young people chosen this before? I have just said in the direction of Mr Hijink that I cannot now provide for real-time monitoring. I can provide a monitor as good and precise as possible, twice a year, with a single annual figure in it. I can do that. I do see a lot of beautiful new initiatives. Of course, you can also see them on work visits. One of the most beautiful was two weeks ago at Pluryn, a large institution in the east of the country. They would have just posted it on Facebook: do you want to come work with us? In addition, they offered: you get a year's contract. That was just an MBO-scaled annual contract. They had 600 applications to come work in health care. That's a hell of a way to do that. I understand that as a big employer, you can do that a little easier. Eventually, they took 60 or so, I think. So that is a huge result. Well, you can. So you can really do it differently than you did in the past and then you get something really different than you got.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u97	It's actually these examples we need to share. We need to get rid of the image that I first experienced when I got this file, which is that a lot of people looked a little gloomy. I would be delighted if these examples could be further shared, because we should also be more interested in young people in this respect. My experience during the work visits is indeed that the colleagues who work there are lighting each other up. You hear this and say it here now, but is there any policy behind it to share it further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u98	Yeah, two ways. When it comes to nursing care, it is especially Dignity and pride at the location. So at the location, you have to look at that. What's your plan? What's your improvement plan? How can you learn from nearby settings? That is the site improvement approach within the framework of the approach we are discussing tonight. In the context of Work in Care, it is the Regional Action Plans Approach Deficiencies. The advisory committee will assess whether these plans are a real answer to the replacement question that is being asked in the region and whether there are indeed sufficient exciting measures being taken in that region. In addition, an action learning network will be set up in this context. If there is an exciting example, which the whole country should actually take note of, it will be spread across all regions through the action learning network. So this is indeed a very conscious policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u99	So I understand the Minister that these kinds of examples are actually divided within the region, like: hey, this works, this has effect and you can also apply it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u100	Definitely. Absolutely. Mrs Sazias of the 50PLUS Group asks whether there is room for internships. There are, of course, separate internship schemes, but these additional resources can also be used to finance training pathways. This involves both the additional resources from the Work in Health Action Programme, which is 350 million. Of these, 320 million are intended for all kinds of training. It is also about the extra resources of the 2.1 billion. So the answer is yes. Then Mrs Ellemeet. Why don't we put nurses in the neighborhood, too? Can we use nurses outside the walls of a nursing home? Yeah, we can do that, and we already are. I would like to bring to the attention of the House good examples of this. So that's what happens. The use of trainees to bring in groups of new people for care and to relieve the burden of nursing homes in the summer months. If students want to, they can be deployed during the holiday. Of course they do not do this as a full-fledged care professional, but always under the supervision and responsibility of another. You can't have an entire location run by interns. It doesn't work that way, but you can definitely use people in the training for the work in the care. To what extent is that already happening, I honestly do not know. I am not prepared to do so, but I can of course ask the Working in the Care programme for RegionPlus to discuss this with the education and care institutions in their upcoming regional consultations. Mr Kerstens also referred to this. The holiday periods are traditionally always periods in which there is a bit of tension with the occupation. That is not new, by the way. We're not going on holiday for the first time this year; we've actually been doing that for a while. However, in a time with a staff cut, it is of course difficult to find temporary staff and it is therefore more necessary to consider alternatives to this. This could be a very good alternative, and I would therefore like to take up the suggestion of getting to work on it. I am going to do this along two lines, of course, along the line of the employers and perhaps along the line of the educational institutions. Maybe they're gonna say, "You know what's great to do on your vacation? Just work!" Then there's innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u101	I asked if we already put people in the nursing home outside the nursing home. The answer to that went a little fast. The minister says we already do. We have the complete package at home and the modular package at home for that. I was interested in whether we could do that in other places. I mean, you can really work more outreach and you can guide people who might already be on a waiting list. For those people, the transition is also much smoother, because you already build up knowledge about the patient who comes to the nursing home in the long run. I know that we are already taking steps with the specialist on old-age medicine, but there are many more people working in the nursing home who may be able to do interesting work outside the walls of the nursing home. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u102	The answer is still: that is already happening and it can already be done. I think your question is above all: what are we going to do with these examples and could we also make them bigger and spread? It seems very good to me to do so. I am willing to do so together with Dignity and pride on location and to make such examples known. That is the learning and improvement approach to the level of each individual location. It's already happening. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u103	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u104	That's good to hear. I knew that from the specialist in elder medicine, but I didn't know that, for example, nurses working in the nursing home could also work outside the nursing home. I still wonder what kind of financing basis is for that. If you work part of the time at home and part of the time at the nursing home, how did we organize it now? I just didn't know about that. I think it would be very interesting if we did that more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u105	I have only been to a beautiful project on the Veluwe where this type of construction is indeed being worked with. So beautiful things are happening. There can often be much more than people think. Of course, the people in the nursing home just need their own nurses. So they don't necessarily have time to do anything in the neighborhood, especially if it can't be financed. But you can do what you're actually saying. Of course, you don't have to wait to meet someone who is already on the list to go to a nursing home and who knows which nursing home that will be. You don't have to wait with a smooth transition until that place is actually there. Yeah, you can start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u106	Before the Minister goes to the heading of innovation, which is a sub-cup to the heading of labour market, I still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u107	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u108	... some questions about that labor market. The care needs a lot of people. The image sometimes affects the care. I have mentioned in my contribution a number of recent abuses that have been reported in the news over the past week. Sometimes employees suffer from this, sometimes clients suffer from it and sometimes both suffer from it. The Minister has already indicated once before, for example in Question Time, that there are all kinds of measures in the pipeline to deal with these abuses even better. I'm very happy about that. It's very necessary, too. But I would also like to hear from him that he is directly and visibly pressing the headlines on abuses that are already happening and about which there are reports, because I think that also works when it comes to showing that the sector is taking its image seriously. That's how we radiate a better image to all the people we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u109	I will answer your question in a moment, but first let me give you some reflection, also on your contribution. In fact, I found your sketch of the state of concern very gloomy, so gloomy that I do not think it does exactly what I see happening in the sector. There are 1.2 million people working in the care sector. It's the biggest sector we have. One in seven people work in healthcare in the Netherlands. Where people work, mistakes are made. So that mistakes are made in the care: I think; there is no other way. But if, in a debate on nursing homes, we drop the word'misfits' in every sense, I do not think we are doing exactly justice to the reality that is taking place. At the same time, it is clear: where abuses occur, we have to deal with them. I believe that every time we discuss it, whether it is here in the Chamber or you ask questions in writing, we make sure that we have them on the table and we get to work on them. Of course, rotten apples in the basket do not help the image of the sector. That means you have to throw out every rotten apple in the basket. So you're gonna have to work with that. I believe that this approach also offers a good guarantee on many fronts of tackling lower-quality nursing homes. The ultimate consequence can also be linked to under-performance of nursing homes, as stated in the Wlz purchasing framework. Nevertheless, you will never hear me make a full contribution to the issue of wrongdoing. If there's anything wrong with the image of the nursing home sector, it's that we're talking about the nursing home sector through the glasses of abuses. I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u110	A follow-up question, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u111	Of course, after the first sentences of my speech, the Minister may have dropped his shoulders a little and did not hear that I have also mentioned good examples that are not being crushed, but should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u112	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u113	I think I mentioned the word "misfits" once in my speech. My question is this. The Minister says that there are not only a number of measures in the pipeline to tackle abuses more firmly, but that he does so even if abuses occur. Then I ask him, "Show me. Just show that clearly. Not only do it immediately, but also make it visible."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u114	I think I do, but if you would like to encourage me on one point, you are very welcome to do so. But I think I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u115	I assume the Minister has heard my encouragement. In my opinion: if he tackles the abuses directly, just show them. This minister likes to show what he's doing. Let's see this, too. Take those abuses and show them. Make it really visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u116	In my view, we have no difference of opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u117	The subcup of innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u118	Yeah, it's about time. Mrs Hermans asked a question about this. She actually said: something is probably happening in the field of innovation, but what I want is to anchor innovation in a structural way. The first thing I would like to say about this is this. In my opinion, the approach Dignity and pride in any location is not only going to create the pressure to make that change at the level of each location, but also to create new examples that you can spread along that route. Learning from each other really gets you going that way. That's the first thing. The second is that, of course, we have also set aside a budget for the introduction of the quality framework, apart from the 2.1 billion, a development budget that is distributed at regional level, and so several institutions in a region can do something new. However, you say: I do not think it is enough. One idea might be to look at how we can anchor innovation in combination with a healthcare office and one or a few institutions more structuralally, including in quality standards. Quality standards are, of course, never, in any sector, a static fact that must remain that way for eternity. The quality standards in curative care improve all the time and are developing all the time. A few thousand quality standards are registered or updated each year. I think that is an answer to the search you have, how we can make innovations more structural and actually anchor them. An innovation that is actually supported by an institution and a care office and also by the patient or client side, so a tripartite wearing of a new approach, I could be part of the quality standard. I would like to work on it along that road, because I think that might be a nice answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u119	Thank you to the Minister for at least looking at a way in which we can ensure more innovation and make it more sustainable and we can also achieve the scaling-up. But I still have a question about the route of quality standards. Perhaps I have the wrong idea of a quality standard, but the way I interpret it, a quality standard applies when we register it for the whole profession, so for the whole sector. I want to be careful that we impose an innovation or an innovative form of healthcare that works well in Hengelo but which is not the answer to an existing question in Maastricht, on the whole sector. So just so we're clear, is that what the minister means? Or should I interpret a quality standard differently in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u120	The quality framework that we now have offers room for customization. Learning and developing are very central to this. So it shouldn't be along the way that if you put him in there, you're gonna ram him right over the whole sector and everybody has to stick to it. But it is true that you could indeed anchor innovative forms, even at the level of a quality standard. It's possible. If you don't put it as a minimum requirement, it doesn't have to apply to the whole sector at the time, but it's actually a way to make quality standards learn and develop. That seems to me to be a scouting road. Again, I do not have the last answer to all the follow-up questions that you might be able to ask, but let us get to work along that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u121	In any case, thank you for thinking about this road. Let me also think if this is the way we should go. I shall come back to that in the second term. But here's what I'm gonna do. This is very much about the things that happen. You rightly said that there is also a development budget for the implementation of the quality framework, precisely in order to give these innovative forms a place. However, the letter you sent to address how the funds should be used refers to "supporting the implementation of the quality framework," and "these resources can be targeted by health offices to address specific bottlenecks in the implementation of the quality framework." I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet that "innovation" is a big word that you can understand a lot. But I really think this is something other than solving bottlenecks. So please respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u122	I understand that, too. I'm not sure which letter you're quoting. I've written quite a few lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u123	"The Supplementary Wlz Care Purchasing Framework 2019 on spending additional funds nursing home care'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u124	Please! One of the fine works of the past period. It could just be that this is a narrow definition of what can be done with it. It was said at the time when the quality framework was set that it is difficult to just pop it up in the sector and then think it will work itself out. It was said: let us put development budget on that, so that if there is a scaled-up innovation in a region, you can work with it. That budget is therefore actually useful for free use, but it is free to go to work from the health offices. That's one thing. The second is that the means for Dignity and pride simply stand. In fact, they're going up a little over the next period. The third is that funding is still available for the implementation and support of the quality framework. The fourth is that within these 2.1, if we divide that up to 85/15 for the coming years, there is always that 15% per institution as a whole. If you look at how much resources are available for the nursing home sector, I think they're going to lack hands rather than money to shape all that innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u125	In conclusion, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u126	Sure, finalizing, thank you. I do not doubt the amount of money, it is my concern that it is spent properly. In the same letter about transition means you write: this arrangement will be further developed. It may still be possible to answer my question further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u127	Yes. If you say: I think this is the homework for this minister, I will get to work in this way and link these two issues together. I must say that I will make a proposal in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u128	Had you come to the end of this block yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u129	Well, then Mrs Sazias would feel inadequate, and you shouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u130	No, I certainly don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u131	Because she had asked for innovations inside living and caring. I very much agree with Mrs Sazias. I don't agree with anyone who says the nursing homes should come back. I agree with everyone who says living at home longer is nice as long as it goes. But if it doesn't work anymore, you should do something else. They are more people than the number of people who are now eligible for a place in a nursing home. The group could therefore be larger than the group eligible for one of these new initiatives in the area of housing and care. I know what you're saying. The initiatives currently in existence have been partly financed privately, at least a surplus on the basic contribution. On the contrary, you should want this type of initiative to be widely accessible and to reflect the diversity of the population as a whole. The program Langer At home that we will discuss after the holiday after the recess, I have to say, because you are not on holiday, you have only recess; I am just vacationing, belong to the third action line, living and caring. It's all about this. How could we kick these new initiatives out of the ground? An innovation scheme has been devised in which we want to support new initiatives to get off the ground and then we want to see how we can copy-paste initiatives that originated in one city in another. We're working on it, but let's discuss whether you think that's enough. It really comes up in that. Then I've come to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u132	Then there will be two more blocks: finance and varia. I think there have been a few questions about finances. I suggest that we give the Minister the opportunity to go to the point, pointy, to include everything related to finance in the answer at once, and that Members at the end of that block be given the opportunity to put a single short question, just as pointy, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr President, thank you for this graceful and subtle encouragement. I think I got the message. You say it on the threshold of a block in which that is not easy, but I am going to do my best. I have just mentioned a number of means. I mentioned the 435 million already included in the rates. Next year, another 600 million will be added, the following year another 600 million and then 510 million. With the sum of these four amounts, we are in the 2.1 billion extra available for nursing care under the quality framework. In addition, in the period 2018-2021, 125 million is available annually for the transition funds, 67 million for labour market policies and 50 million for regional bottlenecks, innovation and so on. Then there are still implementation costs available, resources for Dignity and pride, expertise promotion and daily spending, up to 180 million structural and still support resources for Dignity and pride of 25 million per year. That estimate takes into account the transition path. That's why it's growing. I have just explained that we have consciously chosen to work as a basis for a quality plan with a budget, because, apart from Mr Van der Staaij's black and white examples, each institution has its own way forward towards meeting the high standard of the quality framework. To indicate good form and content, this period does not apply to one size fits all. During this period, each institution shall draw up a plan and attach a budget to it. This is financed from the plus, from the quality budget available for it in the coming period per year, in turn 600 million, 600 million and 510 million. That's the base. Most of the questions were about cost research, so let me get straight to that. A number of misunderstandings have evidently arisen about that cost analysis, after hearing the questions put. I'll try to explain it as best I can. The cost study was done in 2016. In that year it was found that there was a little more money spent than there was at that time in the macrocontracting space. In the meantime, we have a new reality. We have a new quality framework and we have already taken the first step towards the financial side of the quality framework. So 435 million has already gone to the sector, including in tariffs. The mere fact that in 2016 it was found that at that time there was more spending than there was in the tariffs is no reason to say that something needs to be adjusted. To put it bluntly at macro level: the plus added in 2018 is already bigger than the hole in 2016. But more importantly, here's the thing. If the rates for nursing home care would now be fixed by the NZa de NZa has calculated this for the whole of the Wlz.... we see that the rates for disability care rise. There, too, we have expanded the macro-contracting space, as was read in the same letter. We have therefore followed the cost study broadly, except for one sub-sector. This is the sub-sector where the reality is completely different: a new quality framework and already the first step towards the 2.1 billion. It is also important that we work with quality budgets, which are added to the basic rate. Moreover, it is assumed that the rates would go up, but in the nursing home sector the rates would not go up, but would go down. Apart from that, if you were to translate the cost research into new rates now, the basic rates would be very fluctuating. You then get redistributed effects between institutions that improve on them and those that decline on them. Next, a comment on the quality budget system. If the basis is not stable, which applies to a large number of institutions, then we can set the quality budget on it, with the obligation on the 85/15 distribution and the quality plan to be made. But if, for example, we go down 2.5% or 3.5% this year, while we add 5% next year, the institution will of course say: what rate can I count on now, because in this way it will become very unpredictable what my plus will look like for the years to come. For this reason, we have chosen to combine the results of cost research and working with quality budgets, regardless of the macro-effect. Again, the macro-effect is that the rates do not go up, but just go down a little bit. Apart from that, the redistributing effects between institutions simply make working with quality budgets difficult. That's no reason to say we're never going to recalibrate. No, that's a reason to say to the NZa: don't put it into the rates now, but give us an integral opinion on how to deal with it. Give us an integral opinion on how to deal with the combination or, rather, the interference of working with quality budgets and updating the tariffs. That's the first element. There were also a number of other development assignments at the NZa and the second element was the processing of regional differences in cost prices. An institution in one corner of the country really costs different than another. These regional differences are not currently included in the maximum rates. And a third element is working with standardizing cost elements. This has also been discussed here in the Chamber on a number of occasions. That development mission was also with the NZa. In addition to these three elements, the pluses of the quality budgets have to go back into the tariff at some point. This combination of factors makes it so unpredictable how the budgets for institutions are going to work out, that we have said that it is not responsible for doing so at the moment. I said give us an integral opinion on 1 January. And on that basis, we will then be able to make another decision. I think this was the main line. I also have a lot of loose questions, which I also like to answer. But this was the main line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u134	Was this what you wanted to share with the Chamber in the area of finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u135	I have a bunch of questions, including about finances. I can do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u136	My preference is for us to finish. But I see Mrs Ellemeet shaking her head. Now, if it's necessary to respond to this, we're gonna do it. Please keep the questions short and pointy. I'm asking because it's my ambition to finish today before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u137	A short, pointy question sounds nice, but I get a lot of information from the Minister. The Minister is really a star in talking and convincing, but if I turn this off to the facts, I find this, in all honesty, a very unsatisfactory answer. Basically, it would be unpredictable what it would be like if we were to adjust the rates now, and that is not responsible for the sector. In short, that is the Minister's conclusion. That's why we're not going to recalibrate now. But we are now dealing with tariffs that are not sufficient. Can the Minister answer the question as to whether the budget allocated to health care institutions in recent years was sufficient for that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u138	It is not for nothing that the previous Secretary of State ordered the cost study at the time. That hadn't happened in a very long time. The amounts were indexed, but there was a long time between the setting of the first cost prices and their actualisation. It is not for nothing that it has been decided to do so. Now that the cost research is in place, the NZa will translate it into new rates for all sectors. Only, in one sub-sector, has the reality changed since the cost of research. Since that cost study, a quality framework has been established, with new quality standards in place. The first tranche of the 2.1 billion was added. That was the second point. And three is that we started working with quality budgets. And working with quality budgets makes it necessary that the base is stable. You'll always see it: every time the rates are fixed, there will be a distribution. The distribution effects can really be about percentage here. The base will then become unpredictable and no longer stable. If we put quality budgets on that, it will be very unpredictable what institutions will be left with. This will apply to a large part of the institutions. We can't properly predict the interference of those two elements. That is why it is not wise to move on now. In addition, the aspect of the normalizing cost elements plays a role. That question is still with the NZa. In addition, regional differences play a role. That question also lies with the NZa. In addition, working with these quality budgets will at some point fall back into the tariffs, namely at the end of the period. That is agreed in the procurement framework and in the program Home in the nursing home. How's that supposed to hook up? The NZa also has to advise us on this. Then we said: are we going to surprise the sector every year with a new set of tariffs or are we going to do this at once? We have really chosen the latter to create peace and stability at the financial front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u139	The Minister really puts a lot of different issues together. My question was actually very simple: was there enough money, budget, for care available in recent years? Was the budget intended for the care sufficient to deliver that care? That was my question. I didn't get an answer to that. The Minister then moved on to the basis of the quality budgets. We know that it's 2.1 billion for additional steps. So that is independent of the basis of the care, namely whether we have enough budget to finance the care-gravity packages. Those are two things that are separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u140	Not quite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u141	I'd like to finish my question. That's what the Secretary of State's hoping for. He says there'll be interference. He also says that the redistributing effects are enormous, while we know that we are getting more and more higher care packages. So these redistributing effects aren't very big at all. They're not that bad. The Minister creates that threat, while the basis is that we know that there is not enough money for that concern right now, that tariffs are insufficient. That's the base. The quality budgets are absolutely beautiful, but that is a plus on the basis. The base must be in order. Then we can work on that plus. This is a problem that now lives in the sector that I do not think the Minister can put it out as a hot potato.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u142	You say that the quality budgets must be a plus on the basis. I very much agree with you, but that basis must be stable. I have just explained why I think that precisely for that reason, with all possible interference from the developments in tariffs for the coming period, we should not want to make that base unstable now. That's point one. I am not saying that the rates should not be updated, because you are absolutely right to see that with the lowzzp's the budget was actually too large and with the higherzzp's the budget becomes a little too tight. There has indeed been cross-financing. That will be the case for a while, but it will be in a situation where a substantial additional amount has already gone to the sector, namely a substantial amount larger than the projected hole in 2016, which is 300 million. We're going into the depths of the technique. That is an amount that has been mentioned. That is a rate that has been mentioned excluding the exit of the health offices. Once again, Mrs Ellemeet, if, in accordance with the way in which we do so in other sectors, we were to deal with the new rate, the macro-budget would not go up, but down. That's a real misunderstanding. You've been given pictures of ActiZ. I just heard the interrupting debate. You can see that ActiZ doesn't say that on top of the 2.1 billion more budget would have to go that way. I can't hear you saying that either. Actually, I don't hear anyone arguing that. Then my question is: how would you think that we should add extra money to the rates at the moment? Again, if we had the tariffs set by the NZa on the basis of this cost study, that would mean no contracting space for the macro. It doesn't go up there. He'd go down there. Apparently you want to do something with the rates to close the difference in rates and expenses in 2016 or so. Then my second question would be how would you like to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u143	I don't want to ask you again. No. We're not gonna do that. No, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u144	But there's been a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u145	There is certainly much said, but there is also a long interrupt and also very often in all honesty. That's what I'd like to admit. I always think that's important, but there's a line somewhere. So make it really short. This is yet another interruption, in threes. That is not really the intention, but I will give you the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u146	I still haven't really received an answer to my short question, namely whether there is a sufficient budget for the care to be able to finance that care. The Minister does say that there is crosspollination between the lowerzzp's and higherzzp's. But then he doesn't take the fact that there is a lot of money from the NHC and the reserves going to that care. The Minister also says all the time that the macro framework would go down instead of up if we re-evaluated those rates. But then the Minister would charge himself very much, namely to align the cost to the maximum rate. But those are really two fundamentally different things, if you take into account that there is a lot of money from that NHC added to that budget. So the Minister is counting in a way that I am really questioning or that is the way you should calculate the new rates, and with my calculation you come at a plus and not at a minus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u147	That is very exciting, Mr President, because these are not the calculations as they apply. Can I nuance the picture about the NHC a little bit? Because the picture is sketched as if a lot of money was spent on the normative housing component in the care sector in 2016. Indeed, in that year, in addition to the cross-financing between the lower and the higherzzp's, 180 million were not exactly spent in accordance with that NHC. This is about the whole Wlz sector, so not just the nursing home sector, and 180 million of it is probably substituted towards the care component. Is that bad? No, not necessarily. That's a choice that's been made. Should you compensate for that? Well, not necessarily. When I look at how much budget is being added, I would certainly not think that should be compensated or corrected. The NHC is also part of an integral tariff: it is a financing component. Thus, the normative housing component is not the housing component that must be made up of it. It's meant to be, that's right. But the fact that this has changed once in a year is not necessarily a very dramatic effect, especially when you look at how many budgets will increase in the coming years. Quite apart from the fact that the normative housing component is also just in the 2018 budget and in all subsequent budgets for the coming years, there is also, of course, that all the huge pluses of the coming years include 15% each time, which can be spent on anything and everything, and of which I am not going to prescribe what that can be spent on. And then back to the 2.1 billion. I think you've always been clear about that. You have always said that we would very much like to make that up to staff. That was the point, and that is exactly what the agreements are as I have made them today. Should these rates be updated at any time? That's right. But there are so many things that can interfere with each other, that I would like to be able to do so in as predictable a way as possible. For this I have asked for an integral opinion from the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u148	I believe that this debate can no longer be followed by a normal person. It's ball-ball: the minister slides for just as long until everyone is completely out of control. Just now he said something interesting, because he said: ActiZ also does not suggest that extra money should be added, that on top of that 2.1 billion would have to add 300 million. In doing so, he acknowledges that the 300 million problem is there. That problem is at the heart of it, and that is the problem that over the past few years money intended for stones and chairs has been spent on care. The minister says you can ask yourself if that's a problem. I think that is a problem, because that is a structural deficit. So you're going to solve that structural deficit with the 435 million, the money that was put in the rates by Secretary of State Van Rijn for this year. That could be a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u149	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u150	But then the Minister has to be honest and then he has to say: that money is no longer available to spend on those beautiful quality plans. That could be a choice. But then there is not 2.1 billion, but 1.8 billion. And you can, but you have to be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u151	I'm so afraid you'll find after my answer that I'm going to repeat myself. I think we talked about that normative housing component. I said that that image is a bit more nuanced. It's about 180 million over the entire WlZ sector. So it's not just about the nursing home sector, it's about the whole Wlz sector. That's one. Two is: are we going to be talking in the coming years? I am not talking about this 435 million space to do additional things about housing too? I'd say so, I think. It is now a bit hot and cold at the same time blowing. I'll say that about it, but at first you gave me quite clear orders about the stakes of the 2.1 billion. They were about meeting the quality framework. That has a human impulse as a basis. Eventually we ended up with a distribution of 85/15. This leaves 15% of the forthcoming impulses in the nursing home sector which can be spent as they see fit. That's the first line. The second line. We do intend to update tariffs at some point, but we say: do not do that now, because now a number of things are going to get mixed up. Working with quality budgets on an unstable basis due to all kinds of redistribution effects becomes a mess and becomes unpredictable. We shouldn't do that. That is the second reason why we say that we should not want that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u152	It's not about getting messy. The point is that this minister has a political problem. That's why he's creating so much fog here. He has a political problem when he has to top up the structural deficit of 300 million on tariffs. That's the problem he has, because then he can't live up to his commitment to spend 2.1 billion more on quality plans. That's why so much fog is being created here. You have to pull it apart. You're short on the rates when it comes to thezzp's that have been paid out of the wrong pot and you have the money for the quality plans. The Minister is now throwing it all at a pile, because that suits him politically well. Then he doesn't have to acknowledge that if you follow it completely honestly, there should actually be 300 million on top of that 2.1 billion. He doesn't want to and he doesn't have any support for that in the coalition, but he has to tell the honest story. That money will not be available, but then deduct it from the money reserved for the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u153	Well, no. I'm gonna do it again, but then maybe we should just accept that we disagree. On the contrary, there is a significant increase in the budget for nursing care. I just mentioned all those numbers. I'm not gonna repeat that. There's no shortage. There's a lot of money. We still have to see if we can manage to spend it all in a good way. Hence all these quality plans and all the agreements we make about them. That's one. Two. If what you are saying is true, then the fixing of these rates should apparently lead to a higher claim on the macro budget. That is not the case. It would lead to a lower claim on the macro budget. Three. If what you are saying is true, it would have apparently led to the withdrawal of a substantial part of the reserves in 2016, which ain't true. There has been no withdrawal from the reserves, possibly from a single institution, but the sector as a whole is a plus. In short, I really want to make the drama of what you are saying somewhat relative. I think what we are doing now is a sensible path if we want to achieve peace and stability at the financial front for the sector. That is exactly what we want to achieve. That is our mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u154	Of course, it makes sense that this raises a lot of questions, because it is an unusual step. The Minister says that he does not follow the advice of the NZa in this case, while in the 2.1 billion the calculations of the NZa were very leading. We have all said that there must always be room for political weighting, so it would be strange to say now that it is absolutely not allowed. But what exactly is the argument? The Minister has just put forward a number of points, but I am curious to see how the NZa has weighed this. They've calculated that 2.1 billion once. In that sense they do not only assume an old story, but it is very topical. Has the Minister finally been able to agree with the NZa on this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u155	Actually, we both have different roles. The NZa must carry out a cost analysis and, on that basis, or not, re-establish the rates. On the basis of all other results from the cost study, the NZa also sets the rates again. This leads, for example, to a higher contract space for disability care, 173 million, and 10 million for ggz. That's where the pluses are. Here, the macro-budgetary would not do so much. It's something in the minus, but macrobudgetary doesn't play that much here. If the NZa only looks at cost prices and therefore sets the maximum rates, then the NZa could of course do so. But it's my responsibility, my policy responsibility to implement the approach at home in the nursing home in a good way. It is my responsibility to properly shape the translation of the quality framework into the workplace. In that I see that there are going to be some interferences, some things coming together. I just explained that. So this is about redistribution, which, of course, always takes place during a review. Then you also get redistribution between institutions, which means that the basic budget is not stable, on the basis of which you add the quality budget. This could lead to the crazy situation that, where we want everyone to comply with the quality framework and that all locations start to work, some of the locations do not experience plus, but remain equal or even minus, or experience half a plus, while of course we want a lot of action for the coming period. That is unwise, and that could apply to a serious part of the institutions, given the redistributing effects. If you only look at it from the role of the NZa cost study, you could say that the NZa do not have to take that into account. But I do have all this to take into account, because I have a quality framework to implement. I have an approach to implementing nursing home care. That is why I have said: it should be standard that when the NZa conducts cost research in 2016 and in 2017 something is happening that completely changes reality: there will be a quality framework that needs to be implemented and under the quality framework there will be additional budget and so on. As far as I am concerned, the NZa should take into account the latest state of mind regarding quality standards and the establishment of a new quality framework. That is why I have done it in the form of a policy rule: because I think that should actually be common practice. I actually think that's just the normal way to go. That's why I chose that route of a policy rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u156	The Minister says it will have to get through at some point. When's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u157	I actually want that to depend on the advice the NZa gives me. The NZa still had a number of assignments. The first assignment was to look at standardizing cost elements. We've talked about that before. That was in the context of the best performing nursing homes. That's how the 2.1 billion was calculated. But what is that, the best performer? Can you compare that? For that, you need more information. With the creation of this mirror information in the near future, I hope for more information on the basis of which the NZa can come up with standard cost elements. That's one homework assignment that was there. The second is regional differences. The maximum rates are national, while we all know that in one part of the country you really pay something different than in the other part of the country, for example for housing. Isn't that crazy? Shouldn't regional differences, wherever they are objectifiable, also want to anchor in the tariff structure? That's a second assignment that was already there. I should have added a third to that anyway. Namely, if we start working with the quality budgets now, how will it connect at the end of the period? Eventually they have to fall back into the tariffs. That's what I agreed to with ActiZ and the health offices. For this period we work with quality budgets, but at the end of the period again with tariffs. But how's that gonna hook up? In the meantime, how should we deal with the actualization of prices over the differentzzp's? These four movements should actually be submitted to me in one opinion. I mentioned the date, 1 January 2019, so that we can submit a policy decision to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u158	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u159	Finally, finalizing. It's a very complicated discussion. If we had had more time and not just before a recess, we might have said: shouldn't we first have a written round on all those letters we received with all kinds of facts and figures? But what you notice, also in reactions from the field, is that it is now translated as follows: because there is extra money for hiring staff or an improvement, we are actually supposed to get funded below cost. That is perceived as an injustice. What, then, would the Minister say in a language which is understandable to all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u160	That clause of "language that is understandable to everyone" makes me a bit of a miserable right now. The first thing I have in return is this. Of course, I have had very intensive conversations over the last few weeks, including with ActiZ, the healthcare offices and of course with the NZa. When I say "not now," that doesn't mean "not." I'm not saying we're not gonna update those rates. That would also be weird in combination with the legal task the NZa simply has. Mrs Hermans pointed that out. The legal task of the NZa is to reasonably set cost-covering rates. What I'm saying is, not now. I'm not saying no. "Not now" means that if you did that now... Well, I'm not going to repeat that, but this interference with all these developments seems unwise, because unpredictable funding should not be done to institutions. At the same time, there is a great deal of financial space for the coming period. If there is one sector that is going to receive a huge amount of money in the coming period, then it is the nursing home sector. That is why I do not fully participate in the drama I sometimes hear about the cost research in 2016. There's definitely a few nuts to crack. And reality has really changed with setting the quality framework and the corresponding budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u161	I have two questions. The first question is this. The Minister asked the NZa to come forward with an integral opinion at the beginning of next year. Is there also the element in the development of context-related standards, which is also being discussed? A second point is that I would like to look at this technique of 85/15 for the distribution of the quality budget. I interpreted the quality budget in such a way that the additional steps that nursing homes are going to take to meet the quality framework. Some of them put that in for staff. They use a smaller piece for innovation, for example. I've said enough about that. I understood the Minister's explanation of the 85/15 just as follows, but that was my interpretation. That's why I'm asking if I understood that correctly. You're actually saying that I don't want to override how nursing homes are going to use 15%. But if we have to add a little more to the cost of care, then that is actually the basis, not the extra part, again as I have interpreted the quality budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u162	I wouldn't want to see it that way. We want these high-quality budgets to go largely to people. That's why we did that 85/15. If you do that and attract your new people, then of course you also put the basics in order. To cut a pair of scissors like that is not all. We shouldn't pretend it's a cookie factory, of course. There's gonna be a lot of money coming up for extra people. The feeling of injustice, as Mr van der Staaij calls it, stems more from something else, namely that institutions say: we had already adopted additional people in anticipation of the knowledge that there was additional money coming, and we should not count them now for the accountability of quality resources. I have two things to say to that. One is that I don't believe that anyone knew in 2016 that there would be 2.1 billion more in 2017, not for the department anyway. So it's pretty good if settings knew that. That is the first sentence that I am opposed to. The second is that I am still in conversation with ActiZ and Zorgverzekerings Nederland to see how that responsibility should be set up. Now we go into the technique very much, but if you answer for FTEs, then you would pretend to be able to do a kind of zero measurement at the end of the year and you would appoint all new people as of January 1st and then again for the following year. Of course, that's not how reality works. The reality is linear, namely that in July you'll be hiring people you'll also need next year. Can't we just be justified on the total wage bill? I think that this is a fairer system which partly meets the concerns of ActiZ. Give me some room to work that out with ActiZ. I think we'll actually come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u163	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u164	Then there's the context-related norm. I have said before that I wonder whether this context-based standard will actually be able to get a financial translation. We need to see how it's worked out. It's being worked out right now; I understand it's not easy. He should be ready by 1 January, so we can at least include that in the NZa's advice when it comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u165	Please continue. There were, I believe, a few specific questions about the finances you were going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u166	Mrs Hermans asked why people did not sit down directly at the start of the cabinet to say: would you not put that cost research on hold or something? At that time, there was no detailed programme plan, which decided to include the additional funds in the quality budgets rather than in the tariffs in the years to come. In addition, the redistributing effects have only recently become known, because the NZa only recently analysed them for us. That is why we were unable to reach this decision earlier. I have the impression that this has answered all the financial questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u167	Then I'd like you to go to your last block, the block of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u168	How meticulously you keep track of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u169	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u170	Nothing wrong with the chairman's administration. Mr Slootweg talks about the results in South Limburg. This concerns unnecessarily keeping hospital beds occupied. He mentions the pilot, which started the Meander Group, the General Doctors of the Eastern South Limburg and the Zuyderland Medical Center. During their shift, district nurses do their rounds by the GPs and emergency services to check if they can help there. The aim of caring for vulnerable elderly people in particular at the GPs and the E.R. is to prevent a recording from taking place there and to see if they could provide care in the home situation. I have seen a similar project on the Veluwe, which I mentioned just now in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet. I know that there is a similar way of working in several parts of the country in Amsterdam. The special thing about the MeanderGroup is that they did it there by working with a monthly rate. It was also the solution to get rid of the five-minute registration, by agreeing a monthly rate with the health insurance company. Therefore, under the experimental rule of the NZa, there is more room for real change in practice. The triage that district nurses can do at the ER and at the general practitioners' posts does indeed lead to fewer recordings. I understand they're very positive. 159 hospitalisations and 169 home visits by a doctor of the general practitioner's office were now prevented. These seem to me to be very positive results. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're going to follow that pilot with interest, as well as the similar ways of working in the rest of the country, and we're going to make sure that, in the context of those main line agreements and care on the right spot, we put this kind of thing in the window. You have also asked whether it is true that the financing system of the MeanderGroup differs from the usual systems. Yes, in the sense that one works with a monthly rate. There are not so many in this way yet, but more and more. And is it true that it is much less bureaucratic? Sure. That is, in fact, the main reason why they have chosen to do so. But it offers even more scope than just reducing administrative burdens. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asks whether I share the view that taking into account diversity in the background of people is also a form of personalised care. I think we've had that little debate before. This is always my thesis: more diversity in care, real personal care, like the quality framework that describes, means that you take into account different beliefs of people. You can also see that this is taking shape in more and more nursing homes. Then there's the meaningful day's spending. Mrs. Sazias asked for that. She asked: Is letting residents go outside part of the quality framework? The quality framework actually describes the need for personalised care. This means that the resident does not adapt to what a provider has to offer, but vice versa, that a provider looks into what a resident wants and needs and then does. If there is more need for going outside, then of course that is part of it. Then that's part of good personal care. Mr. Kerstens asks what I do with those beautiful films from the ANBO. I know those movies. They are indeed very beautiful and inspiring and indeed show how beautiful a nursing home can be. We have discussed this with the ANBO, and they are willing to show those films at the conference at home in the nursing home next Monday morning. Be there. Be welcome. You're not the only one, because I understand there are 2,150 people coming to congress about the quality of nursing home care. It's full of bombs. Those movies are also visible there. We have other exciting plans for those movies, but I'll keep them in front of me for a while, so I can surprise you later. Then the VVD asked: Are you willing, if all has been tried, to ask the inspection to intervene in the board of a nursing home? Part of the escalation ladder is not a good word, but you know what I mean by that. The adoption of administrative measures is part of this. How's that going? I've already sent a letter on how that works in those instruments before. I believe it was in the letter production of the last few weeks. The inspection has the power to appoint even a director on the board of directors. So that's actually even more direct than you're saying. You actually put a driver in there. This is the most far-reaching administrative measure that intervenes in the management of an institution. That is not always done, but the possibility is there. That is actually the most administrative form of intervention in the board. That's not naming someone else in that place. That is to appoint someone who will be instructed to carry out the contents of the designation. If you were to say to me, "Dear Minister, I am naming someone besides who is given the task of doing the work you were actually hired to do," I think I would understand the subtle message that it is time to go. The same applies to this measure. I therefore believe that the instruments of inspection provide for what you want, as an ultimatum remedium.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u171	That this is in the instruments, I understood, also from the letter to which you refer. This is what I'm talking about. Once again, this is really in an extremely extreme case, once we have passed through all the other measures and tried. But if we really find that quality improvement is not structural, I think, given the fact that we have also agreed with each other that it is not non-binding and that drivers are judged on it, that we have to go round the circle and say: then that can follow action, whether or not with an indication from the Minister. My question to you was whether you were ultimo, so really if we tried everything, and I prefer to avoid it; let me really put it first. I think we should be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u172	It's a possibility. As I said, it will be an opportunity that will rarely or never be exploited, because you have to hope that everything we do before will work. That's what makes this an ultimatum remedium. But it's possible in the end. First, of course, you just have the supervisory board. He has his work to do towards the board of directors. I believe that the Wlz procurement framework can now be much more robustly steered through the healthcare procurement process. Of course, there are also a number of possibilities to opt for a recording stop or even, ultimum remedium, as a purchasing option, if the quality is permanently out of order, to say: then we do not enter into a contract or do not renew the contract. We can do that, and we can do that. In the context of the purchase, that is possible. That too does not happen often, because most of the time you mainly have the elderly themselves, whose care you then have to pass on. That's all pretty complicated when it comes to vulnerable elderly people. At least there is that possibility from the purchase. And from the point of view of the inspection, there really is a series of possibilities. One of these possibilities is an indication in that form that you appoint a driver on the Supervisory Board. That is actually the instrument as you describe it. Of course, there is a lot to it before such a choice is made, but it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u173	I also see that the action programme has taken many measures to improve quality and how to steer it. On the contrary, I have difficulty with the measures that you have just mentioned that the health office can take, because these measures affect residents and employees. I would find that unjust because often the leadership is such a distinctive and important factor. That's what I said in my first term. That's why I think we should go round the circle. And again, I'd rather we didn't put it in. I do not think that we should do this quickly, but I think that we should say to each other that it is possible and that we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u174	I think I said that. Yeah, it's a possibility. Yes, I think the instruments in the inspection box should all be used, but at the right time. The inspection should not hesitate to remove this instrument from that box if necessary. And besides, I'm saying all those things you said about an ultimum remedium. Sure. Mr President, you do not expect it, but that brings me to the end of the reply. In the first term, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u175	Yeah, exactly. We have come to the end of the first term, including the government. I propose that we move on to the second term of office. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Hermans. We use one third of the speaking time in the first period. This means that you will have 1 minute and 40 seconds, including the possibility to submit any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the answers to the questions raised by my group. You responded to my point about the huge labour market valuation in the sector and the possible...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You said, "Let's not throw the towel in the ring." I want to make it very clear that I am far from throwing the towel in the ring. On the contrary. I am concerned that we should align in the overall labour market assessment. Because if a nursing home in Heerenveen succeeds in hiring people, but it does pick people away from the nursing home in Heerenveen, then I think we have moved a problem into care and not solved. That's all I care about. I don't think that's throwing in the towel. You'd throw away the baby with the bathwater if that happened. That is what I want to avoid, and that is why I asked my question about competition, and in particular I made my appeal about innovation. I've been thinking about the proposal you made, but I'm not quite sure that that's the way to do it, just for the very reason I mentioned. Aren't we going to have to impose innovative ideas that work here across the country? My question would therefore be, also in the light of our little debate on the future development budget regulation, whether you would like to think again about this. What are the possibilities of giving an extra push to this innovation, precisely in the light of the labour market assessment? I would ask you to come back to this by letter for the debate on the labour market in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the last few hours, I have been given a bit of déjà vu to the debate we have had on the Municipal Fund and the deficits in the Wmo and youth. That debate also culminated in a well-known failure about how high the amounts are or are not. In the end, that ended quite unsatisfactory for everyone, because there is simply total uncertainty as to how much budget there really is now. Here's the exact same thing. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to the motion that Mrs Ellemeet will be tabling shortly. As far as I am concerned, it has to be about the deficits that exist and which are also fixed in the rates. It is about money from the budget that is meant for stones and chairs, but has gone to the care. That deficit needs to be closed before we can talk about extra money in the framework of quality plans. So I'm very curious how that's gonna be responded to. Finally, I shall table a motion for a resolution. It is about a point that we raised this afternoon in the round of questions. It concerns the extent to which the Chamber remains involved in the appointment which the Minister will or will not give to the NZa. I do not really think it is possible for us as a Chamber to be involved in this anymore. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the House of Representatives should continue to be involved in developments in rates for nursing homes;]] [[calls on the Government not to adopt policy rules on rates for nursing home care through the Framework Act on self-employed administrative bodies, but if there were any need for a designation, it would be necessary to implement this in accordance with the Market Organisation Health Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply, even though it sometimes became very technical and sometimes somewhat incomprehensible. I am very glad that we are going to talk about the new time care homes and how we can make them accessible to people with a small scholarship. I do not have a motion myself, but I have signed Mrs Ellemeet's motion. I think it is very important to pay my respects from this place to all those care workers who, despite the pressure, provide a lot of loving care. I'm grateful to them for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u180	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I give the floor to Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u181	Mr. Chairman. I have to start with a correction on something I said earlier tonight in response to the Minister. He said in every sense of my contribution that he heard the word "misfits." I indicated that I had used that word once, I think. That's not right. I took a look. It's been zero. What I did do, though, is review a number of abuses, recent abuses. I also have a motion on this which the Minister should regard as a push in the back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the existence of abuses in the care sector does not contribute to a better image of the sector that is much needed in relation to the high need for additional staff;]] [[Whereas several measures have been or will be taken to prevent or address such abuses;]] [[Whereas the implementation of these measures requires time;]] [[noting that it is already necessary to show that abuses are not being tolerated;]] [[calls on the Government to address immediately and firmly all known and/or reported abuses and to publish them explicitly each time, and to do so in the event of new abuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u182	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Does Mr Kerstens think it wise to use the word "misfits" eight times in such a brief contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u183	That was necessary in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr Hijink has a short question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u185	I wonder for a moment what exactly the purpose of this motion should be. Misfortunes will occur in many places, but not in many places either. We have an inspection which will, of course, intervene and report on it. What exactly are we going to do? We often ask Parliament questions about abuses. What exactly are we going to do? That will of course be a book from here to Tokyo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u186	I think we should keep doing what we're doing. If there are abuses, I ask the Minister to intervene firmly and visibly. No more, no less. I have also mentioned positive examples that need to be encouraged. I have a motion on that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant staff shortages in the care of the elderly;]] [[Whereas the complexity and competences associated with care for the elderly in 2018 are often still under-explored, giving the sector (wrongly) a dusty image;]] [[Whereas there are good initiatives, such as "From Home to Home," to highlight good examples of innovative and skilled care for the elderly;]] [[calls on the government to extend the "From Home to Home" initiative and to ensure that its results not only reach current workers in the nursing home sector, but (in the context of people's interest in working in the sector) also include students and other potential future employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u187	For a moment I thought I saw the word "misfits" in the motion, but fortunately it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u188	Thank you for your contribution. I call for Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I continue to leave a feeling of contradiction to this debate. On the one hand, the Minister says that we have a lot of extra money, so we do not need to recalibrate the rates now. On the other hand, he says that I fully understand that that extra money is earmarked. That's the money we used to bring in new and extra staff. It's one thing or the other, it can't be both. I am afraid that Mr Hijink is right in saying that this contradiction stems from the fact that the Minister has a political problem. We are dealing with a new reality, with new figures, with new insights. We know that the tariffs are not covering, and that problem needs to be solved. In my opinion, we need to solve it from the 2.1 billion. We can't put the 2.1 billion in full on the extra staff. To solve the problem, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Phase 1 of the NZa cost study on new rates for the Long-Term Care Act shows that a large proportion of the rates for nursing home care are insufficient;]] [[noting that nursing homes currently have to claim their reserves and the NHC (normative housing component) in order to provide the care provided;]] [[Considers that real rates are the basis for good nursing home care and the ambitions to further improve the quality of nursing home care by attracting new staff and promoting innovation;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the NZa's advice on reviewing the rates for nursing home care in order to arrive at cost-covering rates for the inpatient V&V covered by the scope of the quality framework for nursing home care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Agema, Mr Hijink, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kerstens and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u190	Do I understand Mrs Ellemeet correctly that she says: out of the 2.1 billion we are taking out an amount for, as she says, the research into a covering cost? There's an amount going to go off and then it's going to be distributed. This also means that a number of houses can therefore take on fewer staff. That's the consequence, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u191	What I'm saying is that we're dealing with new facts and new insights. We have to face them. That's what I want to do. I don't think there should be any more money in the nursing homes on top of that 2.1 billion. Look at all those old people living at home. We do know that with 1.8 billion, we still have a lot of money to attract new staff. We also know that this will be a huge challenge. I would say: first solve this problem, then get to work with the recruitment of new staff. And I hope that we can give that 1.8 billion to all the new staff we would like to attract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u192	A very short follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u193	I would like to thank Mrs Ellemeet. When she interrupted me it was not quite clear to me, but now it is clear what choice she makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u194	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In the past period, we have noticed that cutting cuts are certainly very difficult in the care sector: sometimes less more is sometimes very difficult, but that does not mean that spending extra money automatically is very easy. Again, there may be a number of questions. Moreover, I think that the Minister is right to say that it is also a good reason to count your blessings, now that there is so much extra money to be spent in the nursing home sector. I think that this is a right accent, which can best be mentioned here tonight from our point of view. Mr. Chairman. I am also positive about giving more flexibility to this additional expenditure. That is not a straitjacket, because I detect the necessary space for real expenses to comply with the quality framework nursing home care. Secondly, I welcome the Minister's response to the desire to control bureaucracy and to ensure that the additional commitment needed for accountability and new plans does not again lead to new accountability structures and new accountability burdens. Thank you for that, too. Finally. Give nursing homes the rate calculated by the NZa as soon as possible. I listened carefully to the Minister, but I finally chose the line to follow the NZa calculation, which I find most convincing. Hence my signature under Mrs Ellemeet's motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u196	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for answering the questions. When I leave tonight, I have the feeling, especially when it comes to the numbers, of: still concentrated but at a much deeper level. I therefore believe that we should certainly have a technical briefing on the figures in the coming period, for example on how these six steps for the plan of 85/15 should be distributed. The same is true of the plans which have already been sent to us and which have become more or less part of this debate. I think we should stop this evening from getting a little messed up. I still think we should be happy with 2.1 billion extra for nursing care. That is really what the CDA Group is trying to do, because the Minister is also supporting it in order to get more people, so that it is vital that residents receive more attention and more staff. Things still need to be improved here and there. One of the elements that we will see again in the coming summer months is the question: can we find a place? Hence the motion I would like to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are recurring occupation problems in nursing homes in the summer months;]] [[Whereas this may cause patients to be assigned a bed far from home or to occupy beds where they do not belong for longer than necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with ActiZ and training for nurses and nurses with a view to encouraging students to work temporarily in nursing homes to cope with the worst shortages in the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u198	The next item is the debate on nursing homes. I would like to give the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport the floor in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u199	Mr. Chairman. I shall not go so far as to comment on the comments that have just been made, but I shall confine myself to the questions and the motions. That seems to me at this time of day in line with what you expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u200	I appreciate that very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u201	Mrs Hermans' first question concerns competition in the labour market in the regions. The qualification "the towel in the ring" I certainly did not mean in your direction. However, I sometimes hear you say, especially when it comes to the huge amounts that go extra to the nursing home sector: is it actually going to be possible to spend all that? I always say: yes, beware, we're not going to throw the towel in the ring. You didn't do that anyway if we didn't try everything first. That is the background to what I said. Furthermore, I only agree with you that the task is indeed very large. If you put that assignment into competition, it's definitely not gonna work either. Then it really becomes "your side of the boat is leak" scenes in the region, and we shouldn't have that. That is why we are calling for these action plans to be drawn up at regional level, where employers, across sectors, together with educational institutions, cross training, work together to solve these shortages in the region. So it is not 'every man for himself and the minister for all of us', but together in the region as responsible employers stand shoulder to shoulder. I am therefore very much in agreement with what you have said. As far as innovation is concerned, you asked for more insight into the scheme that is designed for this purpose. That's what I want to do. To that end, let me make the information on everything we do about innovation in the context of Home in the nursing home. This arrangement is part of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That can indeed be done in the autumn. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u202	Thank you for that commitment. A brief addition: you say that you put everything we already do in a letter, but I'm talking about that step on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u203	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u204	You outlined the possibility of these quality standards. So I have my doubts about that. So I'd like to challenge you to think about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u205	Innovate!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u206	To innovate, that would also be very nice, to renew. But to think about whether we can give an extra boost to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u207	Yes. That's what I meant. I do not rule out the fact that I also devote a single sentence to what we are already doing, but it will be mainly about the elaboration of this regulation. I would also like to reflect on the commitment I made just now in your direction. We're gonna make a nice letter out of that. Mr Hijink has in part No. 331 a rather technical and legal motion. This motion calls on the Court not to adopt a policy rule under the framework law on health care but to do so in accordance with the Market Organisation Act. If the motion is intended to allow the Chamber to talk about it, I think I have been consciously clear in the direction of the Chamber about what I intended to do. But there is a substantive reason why we have opted for a policy rule under the framework law. As I have just said, if you are doing cost research and setting rates on this basis, I think it would be wise to do so at all on the basis of the latest developments in this sector when it comes to quality standards. Not that it occurs very often, but in this case it is a little strange that this would then happen on the basis of a situation prior to the changes. If the NZa were to set these rates, it would be on the basis of a situation prior to the advance of 435 million and before the quality framework step. That's kind of weird. One would think: you should always do so on the basis of the latest developments in the sector. That is why I wanted to lay down a general rule on how to deal with the combination of new quality standards and cost studies. That is what the general policy is about. With a clue, I can't do it that specific way. In this context, a designation based on the WMG should specify more specifically how the NZa should process quality standards. And for that very last point, I need this request for advice, because of the coincidence with all the other developments. If I knew how the NZa would do that, I would have been able to give a clue on the basis of the WMG. But I don't know, because it's incredibly complex matter; we've devoted a few sentences to it tonight. So my solution has therefore been to establish a general policy rule for now. I can't give a more precise, specific clue based on the WMG at this stage, because that would assume that I knew exactly how the NZa should do that. For this reason, I ask the NZa in the provisional framework letter to advise me on how to do so and I therefore opt for the policy rule under the framework law independent administrative bodies. With that, I advise the Heink motion. Then the Christmas motion in part No. 332. It invites the government to address all known and/or reported abuses immediately and firmly and to publish them explicitly each time and to do so in the event of new abuses. I have to agree with the observations made by Mr Hijink. I do not want to make a habit of it, I say in the direction of Mr Hijink, but I will do it now. If this motion were adopted, I would not really know what else to do that which I am already doing and what you expect me to do anyway. Of course I have to go to work when things go wrong. I do not always myself, because we also have an inspection for it, which of course is supposed to be sharp on top of it. When it comes to fraud cases, we have many partners with whom we work, working well now, for example on the Information Node Care Fraud. We have thus focused on many different common abuses the approach and set up an escalation ladder. If you have a specific case where you think the approach is insufficient, please let me know. But I really do have the impression that this motion in this form is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u208	Meaning unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u209	Dissuade. She's redundant and I'm therefore not advising her. Then the Christmas motion in part No. 333.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u210	The Minister asked if I had a concrete example. For a few weeks there has been a set of written questions about a number of Bulgarian home care organisations where everything is wrong on his desk or on that of one of his employees. I would expect firm action on that. And also with publicity, because those are things that cause a lot of unrest. If the Minister does what he says, that is to say, just take a firm approach, then we can easily remove this unrest in the way I ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u211	Then I would be happy to let you know in the answer to those questions how we do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u212	A brief question from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u213	I have a question for the Minister on this motion. Doesn't the Minister see this as an inspection task?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u214	Part of it. And partly as the task of the Inspection SZW, partly as the task of the Public Prosecutor and partly... There are all possibilities to deal with these abuses. "Mistances".............................................................................................................................................................................................. How am I supposed to see that? We have a fairly heavy inspection which has a rather wide instrument box on its desk to deal with abuses. And that's just the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u215	The third motion also belongs to Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u216	So we also have many other options. Mr. Chairman. Then the Christmas motion in part No. 333. This calls for an extension of the Van Huis naar Thuis initiative and for the results to reach not only current workers in nursing home care, but also, in the context of people's interest in working in the sector, students and other potential future employees. That's exactly what we're doing. It is a fairly accurate description of what we are doing. That is why I would also like to refer to this motion as 'absolute'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u217	And I understand that "unneeded" here means "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u218	Yes. At least you think so, too. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u219	I don't know. I'll leave that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u220	That's true. Well, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u221	Fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u222	This motion, in part No. 334, has a series of signatories under the inspiring leadership of Mrs Ellemeet. I think we have had a rather detailed discussion on this. I do not think we are going to agree very much on this point either. I advise this motion, because I would not think it wise at this time, given all the other developments that are going on, to have the rates set by the NZa. Retirement to lower rates in the nursing home sector is one, I have just said. Two, it interferes with working with quality budgets and their direction. That has everything to do with the redistributing effects that are going to occur. This makes the financial situation for nursing homes more unpredictable. And three, but that's more what I'd like to put up with. I just heard Mrs Ellemeet present her solution: just do it of the 2.1 billion. I would ask her to look back at the expectations she had earlier for the 2.1 billion. That wasn't before, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u223	A brief interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u224	I have two brief comments to make on the Minister's comments. One. That it would lead to a reduction really depends on how you calculate. The Minister sets the cost at the maximum rate and then removes the exit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u225	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u226	That does not make sense, because this cost was largely made up of elements that are not part of a dedicated healthcare budget. The cost reflects how much care has been spent. I say, you have to look at what was meant for care, and that's the cost. That is quite different. We can differ on that. Two. I think it is very important that we stick to the ambition to attract more staff and that this is earmarked within 2.1 billion. I also think that we need to face up to the new reality with the insights about tariffs, but, well, we differ on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u227	Yes, we do disagree on that second point. If you did that first point, you would have to introduce a different type of funding system. I know that many interbranch organisations prefer not to have a maximum rate, but a fixed rate at the maximum rate. But we never do, in any Rlz sector. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u228	One last reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u229	One last reaction. I'm not saying we shouldn't work with maximum rates. I say that, given the accumulation of contributions to cost, including budget from NHC, we have to look critically at what the cost is. We only have to count on the elements that come from the healthcare budget. We need to get NHC out, otherwise you're gonna count in an improper way and you're gonna come out lower than you're supposed to come out. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u230	I don't even dare to respond anymore, because then I would really repeat myself from my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u231	Then we're going to move to part number one. 335.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u232	Motion in part No. 335 calls on the government to consult with ActiZ and training for nurses and nurses with a view to encouraging students to work temporarily in nursing homes to cope with the worst shortages in the summer. I think that's just a very interesting thought. I would like to work on this, not only with ActiZ, but also with RegioPlus, those regional clubs, which are in the process of implementing all those training plans resulting from the Regional Action Plans Approach Deficit. I'd like to get on with it and let you know what's going to happen. Judge Room, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u233	Clear. Then we have come to the end of the debate on nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-11.u234	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
