ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 34911, Amendment of the Higher Education Act and scientific research in connection with the introduction of a basis for the reduction of legal tuition fees for groups of students, i.e. reduced legal tuition fees. I would like to welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House. For her, it's the first time she's been defending a bill here. I wish her much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ton van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome, Minister of Education. For the first time, the reduction in legal tuition fees is a welcome arrangement for most parents with studying children. Many parents and young adults, working students who have to pay for their own studies, can hardly make ends meet because of the towering and increasing monthly burdens. This measure alleviates the monthly burden on parents and their children, working students. In this sense, this measure is therefore effective for the PVV. That is why the PVV in the Lower House also voted in favour of this bill. But, Mr President, for the PVV Group, there are still a few points that are worth considering and which, in conjunction with that reduction in tuition fees, especially on the pabo's, cannot be missed. Of the 175 million measure, many wonder whether its purpose and effect are in a reasonable proportion to each other. What and for whom is this measure intended? What's the effect? Access to higher vocational education, and in particular teacher training, including pabo, needs to be improved. But what does it turn out to be? The influx into higher vocational education was almost restored after the introduction of the study advance, the loan system. There is even a slight increase in tenders. Our question is therefore: does this development justify the proposed reduction in tuition fees? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, it is obvious that there is a growing shortage of teachers. So it is good that everything is put together to promote the inflow and lateral influx, flow and outflow of these training courses. But above all they want to preserve teachers for education. Then why do teachers not always work in education? Is this because of the modest salary of a teacher, who, according to the teachers themselves, is disproportionate to their level of education and the degree of responsibility? Is it the increasing workload, the introduction of so-called appropriate education, where a teacher in one group has to do with six or more levels of learning and different developmental disorders? Is it the increasing volume of red tape, the bureaucracy? Is it the temporary appointments despite the shortage of teachers, and the lack of perspective on permanent employment? Or is there perhaps hardly any good guidance for new teachers? For the PVV, good facilities for men and women in class and reduction of workload and bureaucracy are in any case just as important as this measure. Mr. Chairman. How is it that few men choose primary education in particular? Women are overrepresented in primary education in particular. So basic education would really benefit from more men for the classroom. Does the Minister agree? Does the Minister also have an explanation for the fact that so few men choose the teacher's course? Does the Minister believe that the reduction in tuition fees for the pabos will help to resolve this problem? Is the Minister prepared, as in scientific education, where positive discrimination is applied to get more female professors, to discriminate positively in order to get and keep more male teachers in primary education? How does she feel about that? Does she feel like doing the same thing? And if not, why not? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is also concerned about the internationalisation and engulation of education. More and more foreign students find their way to the Dutch educational institutions, mainly because the study burden here appears to be significantly lower than in the country of origin. The reduction in tuition fees will only increase the suction effect on foreign students. Therefore, we do not believe that the measure to reduce tuition fees is intended to further increase the influx of foreign students. How does the Minister view this? Does she perhaps intend to tackle that problem? And if so, in what way? I would very much like to get a response on this point. Mr. Chairman. Working in education is a calling. Teachers and teachers are intrinsically motivated people who make an important contribution to the development of our children and young adults. Teachers at primary school are expected to identify and, where possible, solve all possible problems. Everyone in this room once went to elementary school or, for the elderly among us, primary school. That base has been important for the rest of our lives. The basis, the foundations of our society are laid in primary education. The attractiveness in the broadest sense of the word, the freedom and creativity of the profession must therefore be restored. We must say goodbye to the straitjacket of exhaustive control and bureaucracy, to the immense administrative burden. Charged, chairman: teaching is teaching, guiding children and young adults to a good and happy future. The rest is a side issue. Finally, Mr President. The reduction in tuition fees combined with well-facilitated education will help to attract intrinsically motivated people to choose the beautiful teacher course. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to welcome the Minister, who is defending her first real legislative proposal. My group wishes it a future with a lot of growth potential. Mr. Chairman. If we wish the students of the future the best, we will do two things today and tomorrow in this Chamber. Firstly, we are voting in favour of a legislative proposal which allows for half the tuition fee. Secondly, we shall put the explanatory memorandum and the response at the bottom of a drawer as soon as possible. Because you don't want it on your conscience that you're trying to teach students a bit of housekeeping and logical reasoning, and that they then find such inconsistent texts in official documents from the Minister of Education? My group understands that the Minister was saddled with a compromise from the coalition agreement. The study advance itself needed some adjustments due to a new political coalition. That is not a bad thing at all, because although the study advance generally works well, does not cause structural breakdown and has an extraordinary social reimbursement scheme, it was possible and necessary to improve, as I think, the extension and increase of the supplementary grant to strengthen, in particular, the MBO-HBO-wo route and to encourage low and middle income groups. Any proposal in this direction would have been much better supported than what is now before us. But if we have to choose between this proposal and nothing at all, then we will not vote against it for a very different and much simpler reason. We have had many years in which, for budgetary reasons, tuition fees were constantly increased, often well above inflation. Now that there is obviously some budgetary space, it is nice to reduce it once too. It could have been that simple and we would have accepted the bonus scheme for teacher training. So the problem is not in the proposal, although it could be better. As far as we are concerned, the problem lies in the totally inadequate argumentation, which means that this bill does not actually meet the requirements of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Yes, there is a formal explanation of the objective, effectiveness and efficiency of the proposal, but in a material sense this explanatory statement is inadequate in all areas. The questions in question are avoided or clouded in an inconsistent argument in the reply. We must therefore put our finger on that in this debate. After all, our consideration should not only be based on the political opportunity of a legislative proposal, but also seriously weigh the quality of accountability. In this debate, therefore, I would like to expose the failure of the argument and actually ask the Minister to acknowledge that there are other and better arguments. The core of the argument in the explanatory memorandum and in the answers is that this measure is intended to increase the accessibility of higher education. That sounds rational and realistic. But fortunately we have just received the most recent Monitor Policy Measures. It confirms the image we had from earlier research. The direct flow from havo and vwo to higher education is back to normal. However, the percentage of MBO students passing through has decreased. Students from low-income families or with a low level of educational attainment of parents are less likely to pass through. That again avenges itself especially with the MBOs. The number of first-generation students is decreasing, partly because of a limited flow from that side. So there are indeed accessibility problems in higher education. In fact, they are very precise. They deserve thorough attention because they are groups that deserve support in development and emancipation. But the minister doesn't want to serve a specific group. It wants to improve accessibility for all students, including those groups where there is no problem. It is as if you, to use a metaphor for my VVD colleagues, decide to double the number of lanes on all roads in the Netherlands because there is a traffic jam on some roads. My question is, therefore, what is the Minister going to do to solve these specific problems and to find an answer to the accessibility problems that exist, namely for these well-defined groups. In order to keep up the appearance of reasonableness, the Minister comes up with a new concept of "qualitative accessibility," which means that students choose on substantive grounds and do not be deterred by financial thresholds. I look again at the Policy Measures Monitor and read in it that the vast majority of students choose on the basis of a substantive interest and sometimes also on the basis of job opportunities. Three quarters have chosen wisely. So, again, no generic problem you need to solve. However, students with a non-Western migration background are more likely to choose the vulnerable MBO route and have more extrinsic motives. So you should do something about that in a very specific way. But the argument for the proposed generic scheme is thin. This whole idea of qualitative accessibility, so that people do not opt for training on financial grounds or for the abandonment of it, is immediately released as soon as it concerns teacher training. Apparently, people need to be tempted by an additional reduction in tuition fees. Apparently, the Minister is okay with the teacher training being filled by people who do not opt for it on substantive grounds, but only because it is a cheap education. This is not only inconsistent, but it is also a perverse incentive, while education deserves so much better. Once again the facts: the influx on the pabo's is attracting again, so it seems that the measure is not so badly needed. On the other hand, the influx into educational masters is falling. Maybe it means something specific to that group. But that's the only thing. Moreover, that measure does not apply until 2021, so it is clearly not very urgent. Then there is the proposal to increase interest on the loan debt, which is theoretically and macro-budgetaryly independent of reducing tuition fees. We've heard that a lot. For the specific student, these two measures together have an effect. This effect is devel oping: students who need to borrow the most are the most expensive. Those are exactly the students who are already less well flowing. Informally, it is sometimes used as an argument that too much is being borrowed. But we have the Policy Monitor, which literally says: there is no indication that students under the student advance scheme are more likely to borrow the maximum amount. Yes, the average loan amounts have gone up, but just as well for students who are not covered by the study advance. Here, too, the measure increases the threshold for vulnerable groups. First-generation students have more loan version than others and will thus be less likely to take advantage of the possibilities of the study advance. This plays an extra role for MBOs in the flow problems. Once again, the impact is greatest among the lower income groups. Mr. Chairman. The Compliance Act requires that the explanatory memorandum of the law pays attention to the objective, effectiveness and efficiency. The objective is to increase accessibility and to stimulate influx into teacher training. There is nothing wrong with this on paper, but these objectives are hardly related to concrete problems. Where they are, they are trying to solve a very specific problem with a generic measure. This is not only expensive, it also sheds light on the idea of the study advance itself, where the supplementary scholarship was precisely intended to support specific groups. Now the response is very handy to refer to the writing guide to the Compatibility Act to assess what the explanation of the objectives should look like. That is very good, because that brings us precisely to the points. It says: "The explanatory statement explains why the policy proposal is the right and logical way to solve a social problem" and "Try to formulate the objectives as concrete and measurable as possible." I would like to ask the Minister once again whether she believes that the explanation given to the objective meets this requirement. What's the social problem? And why is this the logical way to fix it? Is the second requirement of effectiveness at least met? Well, that is not to say, because there are no concrete expectations or benchmarks. In fact, the Minister says in so many words: I do not expect any concrete, measurable effects at all. I think it is right, because even her beloved qualitative accessibility, i.e. the motivation to study or not, appears to be well in order and, apart from MBO students with disabilities, hardly to be influenced with a financial incentive. Maybe there are some effects on the teacher master, but that's just the question, and only after the evaluation. And even there, the government does not expect it to be able to demonstrate what the specific effect is. So there is one more question: is it at least effective? According to the Writing Guide to the Compatibility Act, this means that "the proposal leads to maximum performance given the available budget'. I imagine that if, at a quiet moment, the Minister were to ask himself how to spend 170 million most usefully, this would not be at the top of her list. You can really do other things with your money than solve non-existent problems. I would add that the Compatibility Act also stipulates that it is necessary to explain exactly why these policy instruments are being used. "Lights which policy instruments are chosen to achieve the objectives. Also indicate which variants have been considered. Motivate why these instruments have been chosen and go beyond, for example, mentioning the coalition agreement." I would therefore ask the Minister, in the light of the writing guide to the Compatibility Act, to clarify why alternatives that are cheaper and solve specific problems have not been chosen. Mr. Chairman. We can make it very cozy, but in all honesty: the argument for this bill is no good. Therefore, it does not actually meet the requirements of the Compatibility Act. The more precise we look at this together, the more pressing the question becomes whether we should not reject this as the First Chamber. That is why I am asking the Minister explicitly whether she recognizes that this is a somewhat unfortunate compromise. After all, despite all this, I had already put my cards on the table, and my group will not vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u6	I wanted to put a question to Mr Ganzevoort, through you, Mr President. I hear Mr Ganzevoort say at the beginning of his speech that he is going to vote in favour. Then I can actually hear him do more or less undermine the whole argument. What's left for him as a reason to be a priori? Because that also makes the debate very simple for the Minister, I think. The Minister hardly needs to answer a question. Then why is Mr Ganzevoort asking these questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u7	I am so curious to see what has moved the Minister to put this on the table, while other arguments and approaches would have been possible. You ask: why are you going to vote in favour? The end of my text goes into that exactly, so I'm reading a piece of that. Then we must have had that and out of time; that will save us. The first reason is that we do grant the students this reduction. They've seen their tuition go up for years. We think it's a nice gesture that it's going down now. Sure, I'd have liked to have seen other forms. I'd have liked to have seen better shapes. But we cannot amend it. That's what makes it a little more difficult. It's this or nothing. That's the first reason. Then the second reason. Maybe that's a nice way to get involved. We know that there is a proposal to increase interest on the loan debt by linking it to the ten-year rate. In any case, this proposal provides for partial compensation for this. If we don't do this, students will soon get that interest rate increase for their choice, but they won't get this compensation. That's two reasons. There's a third reason. That is that this law is not really dependent on this substantive argument. All this law does is provide a basis for an AMvB. That AMvB must have a substantive argument why this is the right design. But this law doesn't need that argument at all. If you cut the total argumentation of substance from the explanatory statement and from all the debates that have been there and all the answers that have been given, then there is still a law with a very basic, simple reasoning: it must be possible to introduce a reduced tuition fee. That is a very simple bill, which we would like to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u8	Then I have a very different question for Mr Ganzevoort. I listened carefully to his plea. Of course it is difficult to prove that you influence the student's behavior if you increase or reduce a financial incentive. Something else is or can be ruled out is that that behavior would be affected if you did something about that financial incentive. This concerns, in particular, the qualitative choice, i.e. the consideration of content versus financial arguments. Couldn't that be a logical reason for introducing this bill, followed by a good evaluation, where you look at whether the student has actually chosen more on substantive grounds and whether, for example, that has led to better study success? You can't rule that out, can you? I would like to ask Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u9	Mr Bruijn is a scientist; so am I. So I would not like to rule out something which is indeed not demonstrable. It is also not excluded that it would help for students' freedom to make the right choice if we sent them all a box of chocolates in the sixth year of high school. That can't be ruled out either. We do not know whether or not we should, but the Minister does not come up with this proposal. The Minister does come up with a proposal with no evidence-based argumentation and I know Mr Bruijn as someone who is very fond of evidence-based measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u10	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u11	I am glad that we have at least agreed that there is no way that this legislative proposal will have the desired effect in qualitative terms, as explained in the explanatory memorandum. An ex-post evaluation is therefore obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u12	It is very obvious, but an investment of 170 million in a measure that cannot be ruled out as having that effect is a bit expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u13	I have followed Mr Ganzevoort's indignant speech with interest and admiration, but he leaves me with a strange dilemma, because he has brought in the Compatibility Act entirely at his own expense and risk, without having been obliged to do so. He argued that there are actually good reasons for not wanting to accept the bill, based on the Compatability Act. Even without the Minister's response, he has already announced that he will support it in any case. Why did he even do this to himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u14	It is not, of course, that we do not yet know what the Minister's answer is. We have already had a very written round and we have already received a lot of answers to very detailed questions. Those answers often turned around and often only repeated what we have already heard. The reason why I put this on the table from the start is that I want the debate to be about what it should be about, not about whether we will eventually get enough votes to adopt this law; will it be 38 or not? That's not an interesting question. That is a question of power, which I do not think is decisive. What we should be discussing in this debate is that we want to get the government's arguments that are correct and that we want to get a reasoning that is convincing and consistent. That's what it should be about. By saying from the outset that we will support this for the reasons I have just mentioned, I will at least remove that power-political question. That means that we can talk about whether this is the way we should discuss legislative proposals here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u15	But at least the answer to that question is already clear to you, from the sound of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u16	The answer to that last question is that I do not think that this is the way we should discuss legislative proposals and that I would like better arguments. As far as I am concerned, we do not need to talk about whether this means that this law is not going to work. The good thing about that is that we can indeed have a fundamental legislative discussion here in this Chamber. I think that's what she's for. I have already said that it could have been done with a rather empty bill, with only the possibility of reduction. We would support that. The practical effects are discussed in AMvBs. We really hope that we get a better and more evidence-based basis at those AMvBs. I think that would be greatly appreciated in this Chamber. I understand that it is difficult because of the pressure of time to change a lot of things here.I assume that the first AMvB should be with us next week; perhaps we could have had it already if we had done it simultaneously, but there will undoubtedly be AMvBs in the future. So I invite the government to at least tell us that we will have a better basis for these AMvBs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. Also on our side, from the CDA Group, welcome to the Minister for her first debate in this Chamber as Minister. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill that has been drafted by the government in a very short time. The House of Representatives has also worked quickly. The bill was presented to the House of Representatives on 16 March and adopted unanimously on 26 April. Today it is on our agenda for discussion and vote. The use of the bill is an amendment to the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act, the WHW, in order to allow for a reduction in tuition fees per AMvB. It's been discussed before. The government intends to halve tuition fees for all first-year students and for students in teacher training. For the last category, the reduction will also apply in the second year. The Council of State had a number of critical comments on the bill. These were discussed in the House of Representatives. A number of points were also raised during the written procedure in the Upper Chamber. Two amendments were adopted by the House of Representatives, both unanimously. One is a preliminary provision; the second is an evaluation clause. Both amendments are also welcomed by our group. Mr. Chairman. The government has two objectives with this bill. On the one hand, this is improving access to higher education. The second objective is to increase the influx of teacher training, in the hope of contributing to the resolution of the shortage of teachers. For both objectives, the government expects that by reducing the cost of training the student can also make a more freer choice, a choice that is more based on an intrinsic motivation. It is gratifying to hear from the government that there is actually no problem with access to higher education in the Netherlands. And members read on page 1 of the explanatory statement that lowering the statutory tuition fees expected by the government itself "will have little effect on the numbers of students entering higher education." It is rather surprising that there is a legislative proposal here with the aim of increasing access to higher education. However, the government rightly states that the legislative proposal could further improve accessibility and further contribute to a more freer choice of study, especially in cases where finance plays a role in the choice. This is especially true now that the Higher Education Policy Monitor 2016-2017 has shown that for a significant part of the incoming students financial aspects take into account the choice of whether or not to continue studying. The members of the CDA Group also look at the bill in the light of the vision that the first academic year can also be seen as an orientation year: the propedeuse as orientation and self-orientation. In addition, it may be appropriate not to allow students to pay the full price in that year either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u19	This surprises me a bit, because with the change in the entire study system it is no longer possible to do three propedeuses and then choose a good study. So I do not see the link between lowering tuition fees and the propedeuse as a kind of orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u20	Well, that's what I think it says in the law. Whether it is de facto working out is another matter, but the propedeuse is also an orientation phase. But we can differ on that. I don't have the quote from the law on hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u21	I'm not interested in the exact quote from the law, but a propedeuse is the first year of a study...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u22	Voilà.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u23	...and everyone knows it's a financial burden if it doesn't go well. So I don't think students experience it as an orientation year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u24	No, it could be. But the law says: it can also be seen as an orientation year. That's what I'm saying here. And that also makes it more appropriate not to let it cost the full blow. That would fit in with that reasoning. How it works out in practice, we'll have to see. And how it is now experienced in practice by students will show research. Mr. Chairman. For students in teacher training, the measure implies that their tuition fees are also halved in the second year of study. More than accessibility, this part of the bill is aimed at attracting additional students to teacher training courses. This is relevant now recently in a qualitative examination of motivations it has been found that the intention of students and students at mbo-4 level to become teachers increases as something is done with the price. In combination with other measures to combat the shortage of teachers, it seems appropriate to assume that the bill could promote a higher influx. Moreover, our group is well aware that the fight against the shortage of teachers requires measures in several areas. All six lines of action are important. It will certainly also be necessary to consider how to prevent teachers leaving education prematurely, for example by providing guidance to start-ups and reducing the workload. It is also important to pay attention to side-intromers, with attention to quality remaining essential. Our group had agreed to the VVD's questions on the criteria for evaluation and on the feasibility of the legislative proposal. The members of the CDA Group are satisfied with the answers. They understand that the evaluation will focus primarily on the stated objectives of further improving the accessibility of higher education and increasing the entry into teacher training. The CDA Group welcomes the commitment that the evaluation will also address other impacts of the legislative proposal, for example with regard to student numbers and loan behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u25	Mrs Martens has just heard Mr Ganzevoort speak. Mrs Martens, do you not recognize in his analysis that the justification is lean, that it is not based on facts and that there is no investigation on which it is based? We have only just discussed the execution test here, and I shall deal with it later in my contribution, saying that you need to know where you stand and what you need to improve. I hear Mrs Martens literally say that she is satisfied with the support given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u26	In any case, we do not see any reason to debate this further than has already been done and discussed. But we are very interested in the answers to Mr Ganzevoort's questions. Where was I? The CDA Group welcomes the commitment that the evaluation will also address other impacts of the legislative proposal, for example with regard to student numbers and loan behaviour. We have also noted with attention that the Minister is prepared to forward the results of the evaluation to this Chamber. We are reassured now that the Education Implementation Service has indicated that the bill is feasible and feasible for him. We are satisfied to read in the reply that all institutions will be compensated for the lost tuition revenue and the entry and execution costs, even though the exact implementation costs are not yet known. We are also satisfied with the commitment that the Ministry of Education will draw up a communication plan to inform target groups in good time. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Our group also had and has questions about this bill, including its urgency. But given the Minister's response in the reply, I will advise my group, weighing everything up, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mrs Martens. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also on behalf of the VVD Group, welcome to the Minister in this House, the Parliament's business class. Today we are discussing the Law on Reduced Legal Tuition. The members of the VVD Group thank the Minister for the comprehensive written reply in the reply. Since the conversion of the stock exchange system to a study advance, it is necessary to borrow for study costs. In order to lower the threshold to study, the government agreement agreed to halve the legal tuition fee for the first year. In order to encourage students to opt for teacher training, this study also includes a half cut in tuition fees for the second year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u29	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. A small point of clarification. Is Mr Bruijn now saying that since the introduction of the study advance it is necessary to borrow for the costs of studies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u31	Since the conversion of the stock exchange system to a study advance, it is necessary to borrow for study costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u32	But nothing has changed at this point in the study advance. Tuition credit was there and there. The only thing the study advance does is that it has converted the basic grant, which is mainly intended for living, into a loan. But nothing about the cost of study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u33	No, but at that point, that conversion was carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u34	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u35	Yes, Mr. Chairman. There has been no transposition in this respect. The tuition credit still exists, and it was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u36	That is what we differ on. This bill introduces the legal basis under which AMvB can reduce the legal tuition fees for certain groups of students in higher education. In this respect, it is possible to differentiate both in terms of height and in terms of target group between training, year of study, organisation of training and inflow cohorts. This enables the proposed half-life of tuition fees, which applies to all first-year students, full-time, part-time and dual, and to all students in teacher training also for a second year, starting with the cohort students who are enrolled for the first time in higher education per academic year 2018-2019. The Council of State has critically commented on the feasibility of the legislative proposal. In the written exchange of views, my group and other groups have drawn attention to the proportionality and effectiveness of the legislative proposal. The law initially seemed to focus on attracting more students, thereby compensating for a potentially obstructive effect of the study advance. How does the Minister view in this light the data from the In- and through-flow monitor 2008-2017, which appeared last week? The conclusion reached in this monitor is that the overall accessibility of the Bachelor's phase is now guaranteed. My group achieves sounds that it is much more difficult at the moment to generate enough inflow in vmbo and mbo technology. There's even work here with job guarantees. It is feared that in these sectors, i.e. vmbo and mbo technology, there will be huge shortages in the coming decades, also due to the energy transition. In this context, would the Minister like to reflect again on her choice to use the apparently available budget exclusively for higher education, even though, according to the reply, the budget is not linked to the adjustment of the interest rate on loans resulting from the study advance in higher education? According to the reply, the reduction in the legal tuition fee is aimed at a more freer choice of study. By making the financial side of the choice of study less prominent with the proposed reduction in tuition fees, the content-driven side of the choice of study would be more apparent. This is expected to contribute to the goal of getting the student in the right place, and thus to the accessibility of higher education. That is what my group fully supports. And we understand that the Minister cannot give guarantees. If we were to demand guarantees as a criterion in the First Chamber, we would probably not be able to adopt any legislative proposals here, as I say in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort. And that a financial consideration plays a role in such a choice is, of course, obvious. The question is: exactly how big is this role, can it be influenced by such an investment, and to what extent? I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she would like to go into the aforementioned expectation again and on what basis it is based. I am therefore referring to the expectation that this measure will bring the right student more to the right place. For the members of my group, even after reading the various parts of the reply, it is not quite clear when and why quantitative versus qualitative effects are expected, and why this would be different for teacher training than for other training courses. We would appreciate clarification by the Minister. I would also like to ask the Minister, who will soon have to show that the right student has arrived more in the right place. Will this be demonstrated by more study success, less failure, more job opportunities, or by other parameters? Are these the parameters on which monitoring will be carried out? If so, what is the benchmark and how does it relate to an alleged effect of the study advance? Can the Minister undertake to include in the evaluation the effectiveness of the law in general and the parameters mentioned above in particular? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states in the reply that the influx into teacher training will be monitored through the Higher Education Policies Monitor. At what time does the Minister expect the expected or hoped effect to be reasonably visible? Would the Minister agree that at that time the government will submit to this Chamber and confirm this with regard to the review of the law after three years in accordance with the Tielen and Others amendment. From the House of Commons? The members of my group consider this all the more relevant as the government states in the reply that, if the reduced tuition fees prove to be an effective instrument, it may then be appropriate to reduce tuition fees in future for training courses or groups of training courses in another sector. You're gonna need some evidence. This is consistent for the members of my group to follow well, as the government opts for the tool of tuitional money differentiation for managing influx in response to labour market needs. However, my group does not yet see this consistency in the fact that, according to the reply, the Minister sees nothing in increasing tuition fees in the case of too many students in relation to the need for the same labour market. Would the Minister like to go into that again? Mr. Chairman. In the written exchange of views, the compensation of the institutions was discussed. According to the reply, the government has chosen to distribute the resources from the coalition agreement with as little administrative burden as possible for the institutions. This is in line with the sectoral agreements already concluded. In the current funding model, the funds are distributed on the basis of t-2 systems, i.e. on the basis of student numbers two years earlier. An audit has now been carried out in that year. It thus compensates for this on the basis of the most recent audited data of student numbers, which means that no new audit will have to be carried out, with all the costs involved. However, there may be redistributing effects between institutions within this method. On behalf of my group, I invite the Minister to go into that again. The government has concluded that there is a minimum percentage difference between the distribution of funds based on the proportion of first-year students from institutions and the distribution of funds through student-related funding, based on the total number of enrolled students and diplomas. My group then assumes that this includes the uncosted students. Some institutions have indicated a preference for another method, whereby institutions are compensated for one-on-one costs. The government sees no possibility of building such a system without additional administrative burdens in the form, for example, of auditing, advance payments and netting. In the reply, the government indicated that institutions in principle bear the costs of implementing new policies themselves. On the other hand, due to the short introduction period of academic year 2018-2019, the series takes into account the costs of introduction and implementation. Could the Minister explain where the latter costs differ from the implementation costs to be borne by the institutions themselves? On a question from my group and from D66, the government indicated that the level of implementation costs is not known. An impact analysis was carried out in which both DUO, Studielink and institutions estimated the cost of adjusting the systems. The cost of the adjustments has been estimated at a total of 1 million euros for DUO, in 2018 and 2019, and a total of 0.8 million euros for the institutions and Study Link in 2018. The costs for an institution depend on various factors, such as the number of students influxes, behavioural effects, failure during a academic year, and the way in which an individual institution has organised its process of collecting tuition fees. Would the Minister confirm here the commitment made in the reply that the government will keep a finger on the pulse by looking at the actual influx of first-year students on the basis of the experience data? Would the government also refer the results to this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that the institutions would be broadly compensated for the lost tuition revenue and the input and implementation costs, and that, taken together, the above could lead to redistributing effects between institutions within the chosen methodology. The members of my group would like to ask the Minister to go into this again. Is there any way of predicting the range of these redistribution effects for universities and colleges? In other words, how much can an individual institution ultimately fail, or is it difficult to estimate and should the future prove this? Finally, Mr President. In no election programme has my party advocated that all lanes in the Netherlands be provided with an additional lane. In the past, however, my party has argued in favour of providing all the bottlenecks with two additional lanes. The amount of asphalt would then increase in the Netherlands by a factor of one ten thousandth. That is environmentally negligible. A large part of the bottlenecks would then be resolved in accordance with the Waterman report, i.e. evidence-based in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u37	I am very grateful to Mr Bruijn for picking up the example, because that means that we can probably expect him to assess this bill in purely evidence-based terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u38	Then I'll have to repeat almost my whole story. I just said at the beginning of my story that we probably won't be able to adopt any laws if we demanded evidence as a condition for a bill. It is therefore not in the criteria that are maintained in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u39	But we often talk about an ex ante assessment of the effects here. Of course we cannot demonstrate in advance that it certainly works, but we are talking about whether we have a good reasoning on the basis of which we can expect the desired effects to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u40	I am impressed by how quickly Mr Ganzevoort changes his opinion. Mr. Chairman. The members of my group await the Government's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. Also on behalf of the PvdA Group, welcome to the Minister. We're talking about education today. Education is for learning. I hope that we in this Chamber will debate with you and learn things from each other. Mr. Chairman. Money plays a role. This certainly applies to young people who have to decide whether to pay tuition fees and who have to take out a loan to finance a study in higher education. Will I be able to finish the study with good results and then find a job? That's what they're wondering. These are logical questions, especially if you come from a family where learning is not common and/or your parents are not able or willing to contribute to your studies. The bill we are discussing today makes it possible to reduce tuition fees by general administrative measures. The government has indicated its intention to do this for all new first-year students in higher education, and in the first two years specifically for students who are going to receive teacher training in higher education. These measures amount to some 175 million a year. Others also mentioned it: the government assumes that higher education will be made more accessible. In this way, she says that financial aspects are becoming less prominent and content-driven choices of study are becoming more apparent. According to the government, this contributes to the goal of getting the right student in the right place. The discussion of the bill so far does not give the PvdA Group sufficient confidence that this bill is the best way to achieve this. The members of the PvdA Group hope that the Minister can convince us today of the proportionality, efficiency and effectiveness of the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that the PvdA considers it important for all young people to be sure that they can, if they want and can, attend higher education. Higher education must be and remain accessible to all. The amount of tuition should not be an obstacle. On this point, the members of the PvdA Group support the government's ambition. Today we are discussing the purpose and effectiveness of the measures proposed by the government. Its justification puzzles not only my group, but also other groups in this Chamber and the Council of State. The government's answers are not unambiguous and confusing in parts. Let me explain this to you. For example, the government says that the bill is intended to make higher education more accessible, but it is also expected that the reduction of legal tuition fees will have little effect on the number of students entering higher education. At other points in the reply it is stated that the objective and effects of the proposed reduction for all first-year students will mainly be qualitative and should be sought in the way in which the choice of whether or not to continue studying is made. Again in other places, the government supports the choice of reducing tuition fees with research showing that lower financial charges, including lower tuition fees, may have a positive impact on MBO-4 students' choice to follow further training on HBO after obtaining the MBO diploma. As far as we can see, the government has not investigated the potential effect of halving tuition fees on young people's behaviour. Why not? We'll ask the Minister. If you want to spend money to promote access to higher education and want to spend 175 million a year on it, does the PvdA Group not think it would be useful and sensible to take those measures which could have the greatest impact? The members of the PvdA Group would like to invite the Minister once again to clarify what the legislative proposal aims to do. What qualitative and quantitative effects are being pursued? In other words, what should change in young people's choices to speak of success? The government indicates that a student who has less to think about the costs of a further education, listens more to his inner motivation. In the government's view, this will lead to more motivated students. That the financial threshold for studying is lower if you have to pay less for it, makes sense for the members of the PvdA Group. That this will lead to more motivated students don't understand the Members who are speaking very well. It could also be that students are more motivated if they have to pay more. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The members of the PvdA Group have specific questions about the significance of the bill for low-income people. It is still the case that young people with parents who are highly educated are three times more likely to enter higher education than young people with lower-educated parents. The government indicates that a discount of over €1,000 is relatively more valuable for the lower income groups. It adds that the measure will thus contribute to equality of opportunity. In addition to the question of what the government means by saying that €1,000 is worth more for lower income groups, the question arises as to whether the reasoning is correct. If you want to work on equal opportunities, you have to remove thresholds for those groups that experience the thresholds. Now the tuition fee is reduced for everyone. Why has it not been chosen to organise the reduction of tuition fees in such a way as to promote equality for young people from lower-income families, such as an additional reduction in tuition fees for young people from low-income families? And why is only tuition fees reduced for higher education and not also tuition fees for MBO students aged 18 and over? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. In addition, the government intends to link the study advance to the ten-year interest rate from the 2019-2020 academic year onwards. This will affect students in particular from lower-income families, as they borrow relatively more than students with higher-income parents. There is a good chance that this announced increase, together with the uncertainty or interest rate increase in the coming years, will be an additional threshold to study. In the legal process so far, the government wants to separate these measures. Potential students and their parents will make choices based on the total amount they have to contribute to the study. Can the Minister imagine that the measures are confusing for them and that there will be an additional threshold for them to study? And, if so, what does it intend to do to prevent the combination of measures from deterring young people with low-income parents from going to college? Mr. Chairman. For students at a teacher's programme, tuition fees are cut in half for the first two years. This is one of the many measures taken to encourage young people to choose the profession of teacher. This raises a number of questions for my group. If a package of measures is used at the same time to make the profession of teacher attractive, how does the Minister intend to keep an eye on the added value of the individual measures and specifically on the government proposals we are discussing today? Could the bill also have a counterproductive effect, in the sense that people who do not know what study they are going to take opt for teacher training and, in a later stage, for example, if they are doing internship, will drop out? I would like to comment on this point. In the legal treatment, extensive attention has been paid to reducing tuition fees for teacher training courses for students who also take part in another programme. The members of the PvdA Group wonder how it is possible to prevent students from participating only in teacher training in order to realize that they will have to pay a reduced tuition fee for two years. I'd like a response from the Minister. And why wasn't it chosen to give the incentive when completing teacher training and actually choosing the course of teacher training? Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal allows for general administrative measures to provide for the reduction of tuition fees for other training courses as well. With the booming economy and the increasing ageing population, there is a screaming shortage of staff in the care sector, as Mr Bruijn pointed out in technical subjects, as well as in everything necessary to achieve the energy transition. Action plans for these sectors are also being developed by colleagues from the Minister. The members of the PvdA Group do not understand why a reduction in tuition fees is proposed in the second year for teacher training and not for training aimed at the above-mentioned sectors. On what grounds does the government decide whether a reduction in tuition fees is at issue? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to measuring the impact of the bill. The law in the House of Representatives has agreed that the law will be reviewed in three years' time and that the effects will be measured in the annual Monitor Policy Measures for Higher Education. The government has already promised that this evaluation will also be made available to the Supreme Court, for which thanks. A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, we talked about how we could give more substance to the issue of 'implementability of legislation'. One of the experts indicated that it should be crystal clear in advance what effect a legislative amendment is aiming at in order to assess whether a law is of value added. The government states in the written replies that in the monitor, at least, the motivations and intentions of prospective students are taken into account in order to transfer or not to higher education and the effects on inflow rates, both generic and teacher training. My group has a number of questions about this. Evaluating only makes sense if you start recording the initial situation properly. If it has been mapped out, the members of the PvdA Group ask the Minister. If so, what picture does that yield? If not, why not? And more content: with what motives and intentions of prospective students is the Minister satisfied? The Minister wants to look at the effect on the inflow rates. What percentage increase is the Minister satisfied with? Is the inflow rates also taking into account the effects for different income groups, for example? To sum up, the members of the PvdA Group are looking forward to seeing when the Minister finds the bill to be successful and considers the extra resources to be effective. Mr. Chairman. For the members of the PvdA Group, it is not clear where the effects of reduced tuition fees will end up. What is the significance of this reduction in the promotion of quality in higher education? Will the institutions providing teacher training be compensated for in order to be able to provide quality education there? Finally, a question to the Minister on the urgency of the legislative proposal. The cabinet felt it was important that the debate should not be lifted over the recess. Apparently, the government is under the assumption that reducing tuition fees, as foreseen by this bill, will have an impact on young people's choice of study for the 2018-2019 academic year. This surprises my group because the choices made by young people who have passed their final exams have largely already been made. If it is assumed that the bill will be accepted tomorrow, what effect does the Minister expect for the coming academic year? And if the expected effect is small, why hasn't the introduction been suspended for a year to carefully shape the implementation? I would like a response from the Minister to these questions. I come to the conclusion of my contribution. Our role as First Chamber is to assess the quality of legislation. In doing so, it is important to have a clear view of what is envisaged by a legislative proposal and whether the measures proposed are adequate to achieve this objective. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u43	I have a question for Mrs Nooren, about the in- and through flow monitor that recently appeared, which actually shows that the accessibility of the bachelor phase is in order. This bill is in line with that in the view of my group. The goal is not to attract more students. That's all right. But the goal is: where possible, we still have to wait for the Minister's answers to make the choice of study a little better. Do I understand now that the Labour Party still sees more as a quantitative effect of this law on the numbers of students, or on certain groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u44	My quest, similar to that of Mr Ganzevoort, is that I try to understand the argument of the cabinet in this bill. On the one hand, it is about quantity and on the other, it is about quality. Then you want to know which inflow rates should get better. Should it lead, as Mr Bruijn suggested earlier, to people not going to training where there is a surplus? Then we ask ourselves: why then a generic measure? You're going to measure the effect on inflow rates, but if you have to assess whether you're satisfied with the result, you have to determine at the beginning what result you're aiming for. That is the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u45	My group believes it is important in this sense that, in Mrs Nooren's contribution, I also tasted a tendency, more than we already do, to pursue income policy with the cost of study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u46	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u47	Then I ask Mrs Nooren the following question. Suppose it is unnecessary, because accessibility is already in order. The effects of these levelling measures are a brake on the economy and a loss of job security and employment at the bottom of society, if I may put it so disrespectfully, especially for the group that needs a job so badly. Is it wise to achieve this kind of economic impact, while the accessibility of the bachelor phase is already in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u48	In my contribution, I indicated that the flow of children with low-educated parents is three times lower than that of those with high-educated children. So there really is still something to win, especially if you look at the flow between mbo and hbo. The threshold for studying is really higher for low-income people. You can take a generic or specific measure. You can point it at anyone. As far as my party is concerned, it is important that anyone who wants and can do so can study, and that the thresholds are too high for no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u49	Finally, Mr Bruijn on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u50	In order to do something about this threshold, when there is no indication whatsoever that a financial incentive is involved, at the expense of the subsequent flow to the labour market, is a path that my group would absolutely not want to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u51	I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u53	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Christian Union Group, I would also like to welcome this Minister. We look forward to working together with her to make a stronger Dutch higher education and a stronger science as well. It is very nice and good that this minister then chooses to start with the accessibility of education today. For promoting and monitoring the accessibility of education is one of the central tasks of the government in relation to higher education. With the proposed bill to reduce the legal tuition fees of the first two years of higher education and of the first two years of academic pabo and teacher training, the Minister contributes to this core task as far as the ChristianUnion Group is concerned. Since the abolition of the basic grant and the introduction of the loan system, my party has expressed its concern about the accessibility of higher education in the Netherlands and the increase in debt that a new generation of its education needs to make. The loan system has led to a higher financial threshold to higher education. The Christian Union Group recognizes that since the introduction the inflow rates of higher education have remained "intact" even in my text. At the same time, the Higher Education Policy Monitor 2016-2017 and the answer given by the Minister of Questions from this Chamber show that a significant proportion of the incoming students consider the different financial aspects that are attached to the choice of whether or not to continue studying. That makes sense to me, too. The group of the Christian Union therefore follows the government's reasoning that the proposed reduction in tuition fees makes the financial side of the choice of study less prominent and that the choice of content driven study can therefore be brought more to the fore. I was very pleased to read that the Minister has the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in his sights. The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u54	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u55	The latter is indeed an interesting treaty, especially if you combine it with the increase in tuition fees we have had. But I have another point. Mrs. Bikker just started talking about the basic grant. I know, of course, that her party was in favour of maintaining it. My question is whether this is the best solution to meet her, let me just say. Would it not have made much more sense, for example, to increase or extend the supplementary grant, so that the middle income would have benefited? Wouldn't that have been a much more effective bet of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u56	There are all kinds of other proposals conceivable, but this is what came out of the bosom on the other side, and this is the proposal before me now. I think this is absolutely an improvement on the original proposal or system, where the basic grant has been abolished with the agreement of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u57	The advantage of this study advance was indeed that we no longer allow generic money to reach everyone, including those who don't need it, but especially those who do need it, namely the supplementary grant. Hence my question: will Mrs Bikker not be too easy to include in this? Certainly, we cannot amend, but wouldn't she rather have a scholarship solution than a tuition fee solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman. I can philosophize about everything I want, but one of the important things for my party is the student debt that we're burdening the new generation with. The introduction of this system shows that on average it will be around €6,000 to €7,000. With this proposal on behalf of the cabinet, the Minister takes a bite off that. I'm happy about that. Yes, there are parties that have not joined the coalition. Then they could have carried out their brilliant ideas and we would have seen what they were.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u59	Mr Ganzevoort concluded on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u60	Mr. Chairman. You-bakes are always delicious on such a night, but go a little below the level of this Chamber as far as I'm concerned. I assume that the Christian Union, if it sees this study debt as such an important spearhead, will also strongly oppose increasing the interest rate on the student debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u61	No, Mr President, because that increase is even reflected in the Christian Union's electoral programme, albeit with a different reasoning, namely one that sees the sustainability of public finances. However, I am certainly committed to reducing tuition fees, because I quoted that fascinating treaty from which Mr Ganzevoort might also draw inspiration. I will continue my speech. The Minister refers to Article 14 (2) (c) of that Convention and notes that the Netherlands is obliged to ensure that tuition fees are as low as possible. However, the article in question is even more ambitious, as I would like to give the Minister. It refers to the pursuit of free education. I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on this. I hope, of course, that she will take the space to deal with the effects this treaty may have on further policy intentions. I would say that this is even more ambitious than anything Mr Ganzevoort has just told me. In replying to parliamentary questions, the government has made it clear that the legislative proposal before us focuses not only on the quantitative objective, the inflow figures, but also on a qualitative objective, the content-driven choice of study. Can the Minister make it clear how she will evaluate the implementation of the qualitative objective over a number of years? Does this also mean the impetus this can give students to opt for studies that are longer or known as difficult studies? I am thinking, for example, of technical studies. The aim of this proposal is also to reduce the shortage of teachers. The Christian Union hopes that this measure will indeed make it more attractive to opt for teacher training. More is needed to reduce the shortage of teachers and the Minister is aware of this in his reply. We will follow closely the various measures and their joint impact. I would point out that the idea that some parties put forward in the written input that teachers who have been in front of a class for some years should be financially eligible for tuition fees is not yet greeted in advance by my group, simply for the reason that many young teachers quit because of another cause. That has to do with workload and being prepared for the practice you land in. I think we should be very focused on what new teachers need, but let us also work on these problems. Let us deal with this in teacher training and in schools that attract novice teachers. Because that's how we can make a teacher's career more attractive. As has already been said, this bill is not the miracle for removing the shortage of teachers, but it can be a contribution. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports this objective. Finally, Mr President. Our group sees a minister who is going to work with speed. We are pleased with that. The plans have already been discussed with the implementation organisations and it has been indicated that rapid application of this bill is feasible, so that students can benefit from the academic year 2018-2019. Can the Minister confirm that this tight timeline will not prevent careful implementation of the proposal? I look forward to her reply and her further action during her term of office. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u63	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister. I will meet her immediately and not raise the tension to the unbearable. The D66 Group is seriously considering supporting the present bill as part of the current government agreement. The halving of tuition fees advocated in this report drew attention to the fact that those who will benefit from it made themselves heard more effectively than those who will pay the bill, and not all parts of the government agreement were awarded. A great deal has already been said and written about the motivation behind the bill this evening. Education is dear to D66 and higher education is not least. The present proposal, assuming that higher education will be adequately compensated for the loss of income caused, will certainly not cause damage, but its beneficial effect is thought very differently. Well, that's already proven to be the case. In principle, halving tuition fees should work positively in the interest in higher education and in its accessibility. Fortunately, the flow to higher education has been fairly stable in recent years. There have been some concerns about its accessibility since the introduction of the loan system. Leena version, says the care, could mainly deter children of low-skilled parents from choosing higher education. D66 shares that concern. Education is an engine for emancipation, and vertical mobility is a great asset and an essential ingredient of a decent welfare state. The intermediate Dutch figures are not entirely reassuring. There has recently been a happy modest reduction in the unfortunately modest number of students with uneducated parents. This is expected to be a temporary effect, as was the case in other countries with similar system changes. The design of the loan system has been chosen in such a way that its minimal deterrent effect, combined with the continuous high individual returns on higher education, should be able to draw hesitaters over the bridge. Half of the first-year tuition fees could of course contribute to this, but great miracles are not expected by anyone. The same applies to the additional advantage that will apply to all those who are going to opt for teacher training. D66 does not need to be convinced of the importance of a substantial influx into that training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u64	The speaker talks about low-educated parents. Doesn't D66 also think that it would be better to speak of financially less able parents? Low-skilled parents also see the importance of good training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u65	Firstly, I am talking about uneducated parents, but that is close to the qualification of Mr Van Kesteren. But I don't know exactly what his question is about. If you want to emphasise that all parents give their children the highest possible education, I agree with you in advance. Was that your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u67	Then we agree. Mr. Chairman. The shortage of teachers, which has been predicted and feared for years, has become a visible threat. We have to find out with sadness. An effective fight against this is rightly a priority of this cabinet. We may hear a little more about this from the Minister in a moment, but I expect, in fact, that we will be able to discuss this with each other for a longer period of time on a future occasion, where this policy subject is at the heart of the discussion, because the concern is shared by everyone here, I think. If the reduction of tuition fees could be an effective part of that policy, my group would be worth a sweet thing. So let's hope so. However, the evidence is not very strong, to say the least. I would like to assume that in three years' time the Minister will have an assessment of what has actually happened, in line with what has already been requested by other speakers. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is a third reason to welcome this measure, for which the foundation is simple and strong: the actual income development of the Dutch student. According to statistics, their personal income has fallen in recent years, while their burdens have increased considerably. The latter applies both to the previously mentioned tuition fees and to the rents they pay. Studying is and remains a privilege, but some compensation for that negative development is in any case justifiable. If this helps to bring this privilege itself into the broadest possible circle, it is an encouraging prospect for all those involved, but also for a country that wants and continues to be a leading knowledge-based economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u68	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. Ah, Mr. Bruijn. Will you stand still, Mr. Rinnooy Kan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u69	Sure, with joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u70	I was a little confused by what Mr Rinnooy Kan put forward at the beginning of his argumentation as an important point, namely that the payers of these 173 million squeak less loudly than the profiteers, or those who will benefit from it. That was a very important argument for this. But who exactly are these payers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u71	We all are. But I meant above all to illustrate, without that being a very decisive argument, that in other policies the balance between fronts and opponents was different from that on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u72	I understand. But we pay around €17 a year with about 10 million taxpayers. Those who get that money get about €1,000 a year. Their positive statements will, of course, soon outvote the negative statements of the payers. So if we were to use that as a very important argument from now on, then we could encounter strange effects, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u73	But then I can reassure Mr Bruijn. I'm not arguing it as an important argument. It is more of a footnote to illustrate than part of the argumentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u74	That's comforting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, I will also speak on behalf of the Party for Animals this evening. We have a bill that deals with the halving of tuition fees for freshman students. There are, of course, many good reasons for keeping the costs of education as low as possible. There are also a lot of good times to think of when that should happen. And there are a lot of good target groups to think of for whom those costs should be reduced. But the reasons why this bill is now here remain unclear and sometimes simply incorrect. Mr. Chairman. It is clear to the SP Group. The more education costs, the higher the threshold to follow this. And before Mr Bruijn jumps up with his figures to show that since the introduction of the loan system there has been growth in HBO and wo: of course there are parents who have money to bear these costs. And, of course, it also plays a role in attracting the economy. He will also mention that fewer students flow from MBO to HBO. Moreover, it seems to me that it is also a missed opportunity for our society. By the way, you can clearly see that certain population groups do not want to run the risk of a high loan. But what we see mostly since the introduction of the loan system is that students stay home more. That certainly saves the cost of renting a room, but the cost of housing is still paid by someone. Also here: one parent can make it easier than the other. It is strange that for that group of students who stay at home and are under the age of 18, the child benefit lapses. That's not true for a kid who goes to the MBO. A strange incentive for students who graduate early, sometimes as young as 8 years old, as we saw again a few weeks ago, but much more often also students aged 15, 16 and 17 years old. For example, the cabinet could also have chosen to retain family allowances for this group. The cabinet opts for a generic reduction in tuition fees in the first year and teacher training for the first two years. Why choose these periods now? Aren't the first years the years that the students often live at home? Wouldn't it be better if the relief were to come later? The VVD already mentioned in the written round the fact that pabo-students dropped out of the study because of the number of side jobs. Wasn't that a better time? My group believes that the principle of reducing costs for education is a principle to be welcomed. Unfortunately, the cabinet makes a limited amount available for this, an amount within which choices have to be made. Then we do not understand the choice of a generic reduction in tuition fees very well, especially if this is a good thing for the monstrosity of the loan system. For why, so we wonder, was there not chosen to increase the supplementary grant? When it comes to lowering the thresholds for education, we must remove the thresholds for whom they are the highest: the people with a tight scholarship. And for the students who need to borrow, this reduction is completely a cigar out of their own box. After all, there is also an increase in interest rates on the stock exchange. Despite all the fine words of former Minister Bussemaker, the student will soon be the new milk cow. Mr. Chairman. I had hoped that we would all strive for an equal world, in which every child has as much equal opportunities as possible, because his environment is designed to ensure that the child develops optimally. This equality is not only in the accessibility of education, but also in the starting position that you have after that. And also the development you are going through, because you have the financial space to do other activities besides your studies. Thursday, my son will receive his atheneum diploma. He owes this diploma to the fact that there has been a rector in the Netherlands who dared to stick her neck out for a form of education that makes under-achievers flourish. Together with a classmate he made a work on tiles made of fungi, as a material to prevent global warming. Together they won international prizes. They're both going to the same study. Now I say as a mother "my son is smart," but his classmate is really brilliant. My son won't have any cost for his studies that pay his parents, but his classmate needs to borrow maximum. That feels harsh. It feels agitated that such a tremendously talented boy can't see any solution but to borrow as much as possible, while my son can borrow to invest the money. That is a bizarre inequality that I cannot explain, but it does bring shame to my jaws. This inequality is not going to solve this bill. You can't. Then the loan system should have been abolished. But it is an excellent example of how the proposed measure not so much improves accessibility, but is a gift to all students. And gifts for students are not necessarily bad, but if the minister had wanted to do something for the accessibility of education, she would have looked more closely at the group that needed it most. Mr. Chairman. As a mother, I wouldn't have found it a problem if my son had just paid the full pound for tuition and his classmate half over the next four years, or if his classmate had received an additional scholarship. But the cabinet doesn't make that choice. That is not only harsh, it is also painful and incomprehensible. I will conclude with a question to the Minister: how did you come to choose this? I look forward to the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u77	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-09-eerstekamer-4.u78	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
