ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the VAO Climate. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost not a week goes by that we are not talking about the climate, but also about the need to get rid of the gas. This will also be discussed for the rest of the day. Let me now turn specifically to last week's general climate consultation, with one comment. Furthermore, I'll file a motion. The comment relates to a start of the week at the request of Milieudefensie published a report by CE Delft, which shows that the burden-and-lust distribution of climate policy is uneven. In particular, low incomes have lost a relatively large proportion of their income, and 80% of the subsidies available reach companies. I look forward to a more comprehensive written response from the Minister. I also hope that he will see this as an incentive to make it clear, once a climate and energy agreement has been negotiated, how it is going to work. I hope that's also available for Prince's Day this year. Then there is one subject that we have already discussed in the general energy consultation, namely SDE+ and, in particular, the sun regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u3	Do you have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u5	I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u6	I'm gonna read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for reasons of support and space available, it is important to generate more sustainable electricity from solar panels on Dutch roofs by 2020;]] [[whereas a difference is rightly made in uneconomic peaks of own use and supply to the network, but the rapid introduction of a higher corrective amount causes unforeseen bottlenecks in project development on roofs, which means that a large number of initiators will no longer be able to submit in the coming spring round;]] [[Whereas the risk of over-subsidisation of roof-based projects is limited because it is customary to subscribe to the lowest possible subsidy amount due to the tender system and to provide a structural and supported solution in autumn 2018;]] [[Calls on the Government to postpone the introduction of the corrective amount for own consumption (non-network supply) for solar PV projects until the autumn round of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr President, thank you. We have discussed extensively with the Minister in a committee debate on the subject we now want to move on. It concerns the amendment of the SDE+ solar panel scheme. The CDA considers it important that smaller projects in particular should be eligible for solar energy on rooftops. In addition, in the view of the CDA, the SDE+ system does not become more equitable because, despite a low subsidy, solar projects are less likely to be awarded, while solar energy plays a major and important role for our energy transition and support. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, despite a lower subsidy, smaller solar PV projects are less likely to be awarded;]] [[Considering that in 2015 the General Court recommended that the order in which projects can compete for SDE+ grants should not depend on the cost of energy, but on the amount of subsidy to be paid;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the study for the opening of the SDE+ in autumn 2018 how the subsidy amount can be used to guide the award of projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Making the subsidy amount leading: shouldn't it be about content and effect? I don't quite understand how to interpret that motion. Perhaps Mrs Mulder could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u9	Of course, we are also concerned with the result, but we do not want the entire amount available from the SDE+ to be made available for solar projects to go only to the very big boys. It is precisely for the energy transition that there is a need for a more equitable distribution. So I'm asking the Minister to look into that. Thank you for the opportunity to explain this further. Otherwise only the major projects will be covered and not the many smaller ones. We also get a letter from the Minister on how he wants to deal with the smaller projects and the netting scheme, but this is also a very important part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you for the explanation. I understand what's being said. I would like to ask Mrs Mulder to look again at this motion, which now states that the subsidy must be leading; at least that is what I heard. That raises so many questions that I think: well, could we support that, because it should be about the effect and the content? So maybe she'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u11	We're definitely talking about it. That seems to me to be a good thing, because the more people can support the fact that smaller projects can actually benefit from the SDE+ scheme, the better it is for the overall energy transition. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. Finally, I am going to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr President. No motion of D66, but a few words. We had a good debate with the Minister during the AO Climate Change. You can also see in such a debate that this minister is really serious: we are going to tackle climate change. But these fine words must, of course, be accompanied by action, including in Brussels. I was a little concerned about his response to my question as to whether the Netherlands fully supports the strengthened targets for energy saving and renewable energy when it is to be voted on in Europe in the Energy Council. How are we going to achieve European leadership and a leading group if we go against energy saving and renewable energy? Yes, this Minister's commitment to CO reduction is good, but I would also like to hear a full yes from the Netherlands in Brussels when it comes to the strengthened European targets and the European climate law. Mr. Chairman. With regard to solar PV, I think we also had a good discussion in the AO. I agree with Mrs Mulder that we need to ensure that small projects can be properly funded, but the Minister was strict towards us as a Chamber. He also called himself stingy. Let me say first of all that I think that the Minister's commitment, based on the experience of the spring round in the autumn round, is a good commitment. But at the same time, I also wonder whether we can see the effects of this. What effects does the Minister expect? And when is he prepared to intervene in that autumn round? So what relapse do we have to see in order for the Minister to understand that he has to do something to help the small projects sufficiently? We can now accept Mr Van der Lee's motion. In view of the Minister's determination, we can also say: give him a chance to show in the coming months that it can also be done with this adapted arrangement. I would like to hear the Minister's further explanation and my group will then decide what to do with Van der Lee's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u14	I have a question for Mr Jetten. I have a card here, but actually that is a reminder that Mr Jetten will not need. The card is about the share of renewable energy in Europe. The Netherlands colours deep red, because only 6% of our energy consumption is from a renewable source and only 6% from the sun. We still have a huge distance to go. Do you not agree with me that it is crucial to ensure that roof projects can also play a full part in the spring round?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u15	On that card are the Netherlands and Malta at the bottom. We should be ashamed that the Netherlands is doing so badly in terms of renewable energy, so we want to make a full effort. But the Minister explained to the Chamber that we also continue with the adapted arrangement with sun PV on rooftops. If we can achieve more with the same amount of subsidy than under the old scheme, then I am only in favour of it. But I, too, have heard the signals from the industry, which is concerned about this, and hence my supplementary questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Van der Lee made just one comment. I have heard the comment and I will make one comment on it. This is because, ultimately, CE Delft is not the most important advisor in terms of purchasing power and burden-sharing, but that we have other bodies to do so. But that's just a comment. Then his motion. I have come to know Mr Van der Lee as a supporter of important parts of the coalition agreement, as in the field of climate. Part of this is, of course, increasing the share of renewable energy. The question is whether that happens to this motion. Look, the smaller sun PV projects are among the most expensive guys in the SDE. 12 cents is about the cost, so the subsidy can reach 8 cents. At the moment, we are oversubsidising that. I am not making that up myself, as the ECN, the Vienna University of Technology and the Fraunhofer Institute say, not the first of the best, who add that they notice that the Netherlands spends relatively much money on this compared to Germany, for example. That is, of course, because we are double subsidising: on the one hand, the tax that is on it and, on the other hand, the subsidy. This oversubsidisation isn't about small money. In the previous round, 1.5 billion had been requested for this. It is believed that this could also be three or four billion, and then oversubsidisation could go from 150 million to perhaps 500 million. With 500 million to €50 per tonne of over-subsidies, I'll charge you 10 megatons per year, or 10 million tonnes that we don't get, which we don't get. I understand that an interest organisation finds that annoying, because the more subsidy the better. Then you can also do projects with less convenient roofs or with more costs. But this policy is going to continue at the expense of the climate, but also at the expense of the share of renewable energy. Yes, that is something we have to do, that share of renewable energy, but continuing to oversubsidise leads to less renewable energy, less climate. Mr. Chairman. I don't think that's green. I always say the name of Mr Van der Lee's party with respect, but I cannot find anything green or anything on the left, because ultimately we are chasing lobbyists from business. I would strongly advise against this and I would like to wait and see what we can think of for a more long time to give the Sun PV projects a chance in an appropriate manner and with appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u18	I am sorry that the Minister is widening the differences between him and my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u19	Well, I'm not trying to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u20	However, in the motion I also point out that I think it is right that the distinction between uneconomic summits should be made. I also welcome the structural adjustment. It is only about the fact that a lot of projects are now going to fall out in the spring round, because it is happening in the short term. I would like to point out that today I hear an action group ringing the bell about solar fields, because they oppose it. We need the space on those rooftops. This type of project is crucial for its acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u22	And not just for cost-effectiveness. We also need to see if we're gonna take everyone with us. So one more call: please support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u23	The differences between the usual positions of Mr Van der Lee and those of the cabinet are precisely what I am trying to bring together. But then this is a small anomaly in it, because I think that this leads to less sustainable energy and less climate effects. Mr Jetten wondered whether all the projects would continue. Well, the goal of the SDE is of course not to allow all projects to go ahead, the goal of the SDE is exactly, but also very consciously to allow the best projects to continue. So I do not want to embrace this, but I would like to make it quite clear to Mr Jetten that in the autumn, Mr Jetten also refers to the need to think more deeply and more structurally to what extent and in what way this should take place in the SDE. So I want to do it that way. I would like to thank Mrs Mulder for her input. I would like to say in advance that it is not illogical to allow the subsidy to be leading. However, there are many aspects to it, which I am not going to explain now. I need the Agnes Mulder motion in part number. 161 dissuade, because it is strictly about the "how." But here plays both the "or" and the "when" as well as the "how." I must therefore really discourage the motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u24	The Minister has just made a commitment to Mr Jetten of D66. Would he like to take with him the issues I raise in the motion? Then we can have a good talk about that in the autumn. Then I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u25	Let me do this in another context, not in the context of the revision and the closer look at the solar PV projects in general, but in the context of the broadening of the SDE. In any case, we have to think about this at the heart of the matter, because there is still more to think about than just the basis for ranking. At present, for example, heat and power are treated the same. So there are all kinds of things you can think about. Widening is in the coalition agreement and is therefore a plan. In that context, I would like to take this with me. It also suits us to take this. It is not a strange idea at the heart of the matter. I'd be happy to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna keep the motion on and I'm gonna see how it's all processed and how it gets back to us. If I do not think it has yet been taken, I can retable the motion in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u27	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (32813), No. 161). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Jetten owes me one more answer. In his care, the word "to lie" occurred. I will look at Mr Jetten when I say that neither of us are obstructors. We're actually sending on one goal. That's what the coalition agreement says. If that objective is not threatened by sub-objectives, then it is acceptable, but if it is, it is, in a sense, a violation of our objectives in the coalition agreement. Only then will I object to that and not go for it, but that will not be the form of obstruction, but at all times I will try to tell you, through a little positive-tuned lecture, why we want to live up to our ambition with a little more flexibility. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the VAO Climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-6.u30	We will vote on the remaining motion next Tuesday.
