ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the discharge of GenX into surface water. I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg as the first speaker on behalf of the Animal Party. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GenX is a relatively new substance, of which it is clear that it is carcinogenic and causes damage to the liver. However, because administrative and scientific mills are running slowly, the substance has not yet been definitively placed on the list of very worrying substances, although it is very worrying. In the meantime, the substance ends up in several places in the environment: in our drinking water, in our vegetable gardens and in the air. Not only is the substance present in GenX, the company Chemours in Zuid-Holland, but has also been found in at least three places in North Brabant. The RIVM found GenX in Aarle-Rixtel near Helmond, in Eindhoven and in Moerdijk. On 16 January, the Minister informed the Chamber of the results of that investigation. In that letter she writes that the competent authorities control the situation, keep their finger on the pulse and cooperate with enforcement services and other competent authorities. It thus exposes the Achilles heel of the problem, because there is no single competent authority. When it comes to Chemours, the province of South Holland is the competent authority, but in the case of emissions in North Brabant, the municipality of Helmond, the municipality of Eindhoven and the municipality of Moerdijk were respectively the competent authority. In addition, environmental services are involved, such as water boards and RIVM. It concerns many bodies and different levels of government. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the Minister. How does GenX end up in the surface water, and even in the tap water? The sources are well known, but is there any evidence of how this happened? Have they been accidents? If so, in the meantime there are a lot of them. The Secretary of State for I and W informed the Chamber on 8 March about the study of emissions. The investigation showed that at least two of the three companies......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This may indicate a structural problem. Mr. Chairman. In its letter of 16 January, the Minister expressed her appreciation for the way in which water boards, environmental services and municipalities deal with this complex case. I share that appreciation, but at the same time I wonder whether these cases are not too complex for the different administrations, and whether they are equipped for this complex control and enforcement. I also wonder if there might be a pattern in the various discharges after all. In any case, it is a question of problems that go beyond provincial and municipal boundaries. The problems are too great for one province or for several security regions. Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes in her letter that she is examining what legal instruments can be used. I want to ask her if criminal investigation by the functional prosecutor is one of those possibilities. As a specialist nationwide part of the Public Prosecutor's Office dedicated to the fight against environmental crime, the functional parquet has all the possibilities for a wide-ranging and in-depth investigation into the discharge of GenX, and thus to the inflicting of damage to nature and the environment, and to endangering public health. So my question is: shouldn't the functional parquet be turned on here? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. We debate Chemours and the problems with GenX almost every month. In fact, this exposes what is wrong with our policy when it comes to dangerous substances and the great challenge we face. The RIVM indicates that GenX may be carcinogenic, has an effect on the liver and accumulates in nature, and yet it still ends up in the air, in the soil and in the water. The pollution continues to expand and now plays in many locations in the Netherlands. Agitated by the news of GenX pollution in a number of places in Brabant, a difficult process arose to get GenX's list of customers, suppliers and processors on the table. GenX technology is a patented technology by Chemours. Of course, that company has lists of customers. Yet the government didn't get it directly. The result: a difficult search for the source of GenX pollution. In an earlier AO with the minister's colleague, the Secretary of State, it became clear that the flows of GenX products from Chemours Dordrecht are traded via Chemours Switzerland. From Dordrecht, physical products are delivered within the Netherlands, but there seems to be a paper construction through Switzerland, making it harder to get information. Is this true? Is this a practice common to more companies in the Netherlands? How do we ensure that, in the event of water or soil pollution, all information on both physical waste flows and physical product flows is brought up as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. Then asked the answers to my written questions about the very increased concentrations of GenX substances found at ATM. ATM either didn't process GenX-containing waste properly or they didn't know it was in it. It's one of both. What's the status of the investigation on this? What sanctions are possible if ATM has not acted properly? There is still no surface standard for GenX, only a drinking water standard. Chemours has until 22 May in accordance with the legislation to provide data before RIVM can carry out an investigation. Has Chemours provided any data yet? If not, can Chemours be asked to do so more quickly so that it can be speeded up? When will we be able to see this surface standard? Chemours has to apply for a new permit next year, as it turns out. Given the fact that we as the House of Representatives are discussing this company almost every month, we would like additional conditions to be laid down before this permit is granted. This is a company where things go wrong over and over again. Can the Minister discuss with the competent authorities how these additional conditions can be imposed? With regard to GroenLinks, one thing is clear: there must be a stop to all emissions and discharges from GenX. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Madam President. In November, we heard that possibly a second company GenX is pouring on surface water. We in D66 find that worrying. It gave us air that all those involved immediately went to work to find out the source of the source. For D66 a safe chain from source to glass is of great importance. GenX does not belong in our surface water, and certainly not in our drinking water. We've been talking about this topic a lot lately. That's why I'm focusing on two crucial steps out of the chain. First of all, the source approach. The Minister has instructed Royal HaskoningDHV to work out what an active information obligation may look like. The results are discussed with, among others, drinking water companies and the chemical industry. When can we expect the results and reactions of the drinking water companies and the chemical industry? Good licensing is crucial, with sufficient knowledge and expertise in the competent authority essential. We welcome the fact that the Ministry will support the competent authority in this regard. Is this additional support structural? Given the incidents surrounding GenX, how does the Minister view Chemours' current permits? Secondly, Madam President, water purification. This cabinet invests 80 million in source approach, treatment plants, monitoring and research into new chemicals that could threaten our water quality. That's a ringing number. What's in it for you? How is it going to contribute to our chain so that it is more resistant to the discharge of unknown substances? I'll finish, Madam President. D66 represents safe drinking water through an intelligent, future-proof chain. What role does this play in the progress or conclusion of a new governance agreement, and what is the situation now? In short, about drinking water D66 says: safe is sacred. We're curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr Sienot, whom I am now going to ask a question, talks about the fact that according to D66 there is a second company that GenX leaked, but the letter from the Minister of 16 January mentions not only a second company, but also a third company and a fourth company. Does D66 know that data? Mr Sienot is talking about a source approach. Does D66 also think that these sources are very diffuse in the meantime and that perhaps a higher body should look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	First of all, we know the sources, at least the information from the letter to which you refer is of course also known to us. Does a higher authority have to look at that? I find that an interesting thought. We agree that this substance does not belong in it. I am not entirely aware of the Minister's reflection on that matter of the higher authority, but we also agree that we must prevent this from happening more frequently. We believe in an active obligation to provide information. We need to know which substances could enter our chain so that we can have a strict standard in order to clean it out properly and so that we can ensure that it is purified at the treatment plant. Like I said, that whole chain must be an intelligent chain. That is what the focus is for us. And how can you then ensure that, if that is the case here, offenders of that chain are dealt with, and whether or not higher institutions should look at it, I am afraid to comment on that at the moment. I would very much like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	Let me rephrase the question. So Mr Sienot knows that there is not only a second company that leaked GenX, but also a third and a fourth company, and perhaps more, but we do not know that. So there could be a pattern. I do not know whether that is the case, but does Mr Sienot agree with me that it is worth checking whether there is a pattern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	What I am particularly interested in is the effectiveness of the flexible monitoring programme proposed by the Minister, even more so, which has already begun. I think it is very important to note that there is now an acute incident that we are all acutely engaged in, each on its own responsibility. The competent authority is the province. I think that we should support and guide them at this time and help them with the right knowledge of licensing. There is also the question of how we deal with it if things have not gone well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'm glad to hear that D66 also thinks this shit shouldn't be in our drinking water, but it's in there. This results in an additional €35 million per year for the additional treatment that drinking water companies are currently carrying out. Does the D66 group agree that these costs should not be borne by consumers, but that polluters, such as Chemours, should pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	You know my view on 'polluter pays'. I would almost repeat what the Minister has just said about this. Like the Minister, we believe that the polluter should, in the end, simply clean up his mess and bear the cost of it. Eventually, it also has the conversions. But we have also heard that you have also heard that it is not so easy. I agree with you on that, and it is also a cri du coeur that should be, but I think the Minister is now busy trying to figure out how to manage its implementation and administration and how to put it into a system. I'd like to have that egg hatched.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'm happy with the answer. The question that remains with me is why the D66 Group then voted against our motion to make the polluter pay, while the Minister gave Chamber judgment on that motion three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Actually, it's exactly what I just said. You shouldn't disturb a brooding chicken. I think she has said very clearly that she wants to do the same. For me, that signal sounded more than clear. She's working on it. I found it untimely at the moment to support that motion, because this has already been underlined by the Minister in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	You're ready? I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Debate after debate we are in this Chamber to talk about GenX. There are, above all, a lot of suspects without effective consideration of a solution. For the PVV it has been clear for a long time: our drinking water must be clean and safe. Panic on the part of the citizen must be prevented at all times and we Dutch decide how much GenX can be discharged onto our surface water. However, this does not affect the fact that Chemours has complied with the rules of the game with regard to GenX. The real culprit is the province. In her foolishness, she has issued a far too wide licence. If we are to avoid such situations, we must intervene at that level. For example, in a previous debate, the PVV has already proposed that authorisation should now be granted through a single central authority. With expertise and authority, it can assess which values are acceptable and will not be easily addressed. Unfortunately, the other parties did not give up at the time and we are still without a concrete solution. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about the accumulation of harmful substances. The story about low concentrations does very little to reassure residents. Last week came out again that concentrations of GenX have descended by air and that people may get too much GenX due to the combination with eating vegetables from their own garden and drinking tap water. This once again underlines the need for a single central authority to keep the overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	I hear Mr Van Aalst blaming the province which, as competent authority, would have failed. However, the discharge of GenX in recent years has been reduced by pressure from the province from over 6,000 kilos per year to 2,000 kilos per year, which will soon be even less; it will probably be 500 kilos per year in the foreseeable future. Only the province indicates that it does not have the ability to stop this and bring it back to zero. That is why we have this debate very often here and we are also encouraging the Minister to work on it in Europe. So how does the PVV Group come to the conclusion that the province is failing, when so much is already happening and the province is crying out for more opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	It's extraordinary that the SP is asking for this. In my opinion, the SP has also noted in recent debates: gosh, Minister, take action for once. We always got the answer: no, the province is about that. The province has reduced twice, I believe, but that is not proportionate to the emissions of Chemours. It's still fine within the license. They are not even close to the limit values. And do you have to go to zero? I think we find each other here, because we find that the province is apparently unable to properly complete this authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	Together, we believe that the province is doing everything it can to reduce it, but that it does not have the opportunity to reduce it further. This is separate from the question of whether Chemours pays more or less than the licence, that is not the discussion. In our opinion, the province does everything it can to reduce it, as far as it can, but it doesn't have enough opportunities to move on. That is why, at national and European level, there must be greater scope for the competent authority. What does Mr Van Aalst think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr. Chairman. Last time we called for a single body, and we see an important task for the Ministry in particular to simply take the authority and make it clear: we accept this or not in our drinking water. And we are for clean and safe drinking water. We simply note that the province is not the appropriate body for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	Well, let's see if we can think constructively with the PVV about environmental solutions. As far as we are concerned, that is a complete stop on discharges from GenX, both in the water and in the air. Does my colleague agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	I just indicated that the PVV is for clean and safe drinking water. I have to look at this: in what capacity substances may or may not be in our drinking water. We stand for clean and safe drinking water. Whether it should be zero or not, I'll leave it in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Chairman. My colleague just made a big statement about what the county does or doesn't do. He felt that the Minister should take more responsibility for this. I ask my colleague if he agrees with me that you should say that there is so much unrest and so much uncertainty about GenX... it is already on the list of potentially Very Concerning Substances... that we simply need to get to a stop on emissions, just like the company does in the US.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	Again, the PVV advocates clean and safe drinking water. We have found that the province is apparently unable to grant the appropriate permit and to supervise it properly. We say, then, let the Ministry take its responsibility, choose the role of director, ensure that we have clean and safe drinking water and reassure the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr Van Aalst talks about the role of director, but we see that GenX has been discharged by several companies at different times. The competent authority says every time: we shouldn't; we're going to maintain. If there really seems to be a pattern in these illegal discharges, shouldn't the D.A. look at it to see if anything went wrong? Does Mr Van Aalst agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	I think we've seen mostly that Chemours has a license. You can discuss whether that permit is too large, but I think Chemours has discharged according to permit. You can find anything you want. We have found that the province is not in a position to respond adequately to this. That is why we have already tabled a motion in the previous debate calling for this to be properly placed with a single licence holder, for example, the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	In any case, I would be in favour of putting that back in a ministry. It is now important that it was also found in three Brabant municipalities. So when something goes wrong structurally, it's not just about Chemours anymore. Emissions are more widespread, including from the customers of Chemours or from companies working for Chemours. Shouldn't that be investigated once instead of just looking at this as incidental cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	I see it as a basis for my story: now place it with one competent authority, including the Ministry. I believe that this can be done nationally to see what is happening where, what is being discharged, what is not satisfactory and what does. This at least ensures that our drinking water remains clean and safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. 'Cause where is this supposed to go? Can all emerging substances be discharged into our drinking water provided they remain below the limit value? That means there's eventually a cocktail of emerging substances in our drinking water. Individually they are too diluted to cause health damage, but together they may cause risk. That is why I call on the Minister to direct this dossier and encourage the other parties to support a centralised approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you. Mr Sienot has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'm just chewing on the fact that the county has done it now. Because that's kind of like blaming the police for the fact that there's a lot of traffic offenders. We're seeing a company that's breaking the rules. Those rules are clear: it is not allowed. It's happening anyway, and you say the county is failing. That's too easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	No, Mr. Chairman. If an offence is committed in a particular city in traffic, then the local police must solve it. In this case we find a problem that is national and we do not let the local police solve it. If the province is unable to respond adequately to this problem of the safety of our drinking water, then I think you should leave that role with someone else, for example at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	I think the local police are getting a lot of support, extra knowledge and expertise to track this down. Again, the source of the error cannot be blamed on the competent authority. The perpetrator is the perpetrator. That's where the responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	To begin with the last point of "the offender is the offender": in this case we have found that Chemours was not the offender, but he kept his license. Subsequently, the Minister and the Secretary of State indicated in several debates that they always support the competent authority, the province. I believe that we have now found that we are not reaching an adequate solution. I think now is the time for the ministry to intervene. In the previous debate, we have already asked for authorisation to be granted by a single competent authority. Unfortunately, the majority here did not support this. I therefore regret that you are now asking me about the competent authority, when you had the opportunity to support it in a previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin, on behalf of the SP Group, who is whistling to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One thing I have to hand to Chemours: it's never boring around the company. After years of bumping from incident to incident, the company recently refused to submit a list of GenX declining companies to the government. The company refused to pay for blood tests on PFOA and C8 for residents in Sliedrecht. After the presence of GenX in several places in South Holland last year, this chemical mess was also recently found in several places in Brabant. Afterwards, waste processor ATM decided not to accept Chemours wastewater anymore. Two weeks ago, Chemours came back into the news because of the emission of the dangerous PFIB, some sort of poison gas. Last week RIVM concluded that residents within a radius of 1 kilometer did not have to eat too much and not too often fruit and vegetables from their own garden. There was also an accident last week involving a car and a DB Cargo train. The train had just unloaded raw materials, including chloroform, at Chemours. This raises the question of how GenX is transported to customers. How often does this happen? What are the risks at the time of accidents? Can the Minister tell us a little more about this? I mentioned it: the RIVM warns residents within a radius of 1 kilometer not to eat too often and not too many crops from their own garden. It is still unclear how to indicate the relationship between PFOA and GenX concentrations on crops in relation to soil concentrations. This does not meet the urgent need of residents, who are eager for clarity and rightly wonder how many more investigations this minister needs before action is actually taken. Many of them have already given up hope of a successful outcome. The question also arises as to the extent to which the public authorities are there for the citizen. We have debates, we try to take measures and we put pressure on Chemours, yet this company has been releasing chemical crap into our environment and our body for almost 50 years. As far as the SP is concerned, that should stop as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. During the AO External Security on 18 January and the plenary debate on clean drinking water on 22 February, we discussed the list of companies to which Chemours GenX supplies. A number of Members of the European Parliament have kept that list confidential. Can the Minister indicate the risk of GenX showing up in other parts of the country, where it has not yet been found? What steps is it going to take proactively to make this clear? We cannot wait for another situation where GenX is found in our environment or drinking water. That is why I call on the Minister to direct and to investigate where this is necessary. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In the structural approach emerging substances from point sources in relation to protection of drinking water sources, the Minister states that she is examining the possibility of improving information on the effects of discharged substances. When will this intention be implemented in concrete terms and will the Chamber be informed about this? The SP believes that companies should be responsible for monitoring the quality of their waste water by keeping an up-to-date overview and continuously monitoring their waste water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	Last sentence. I would ask the Minister when she can clarify the possibility of placing GenX on the list of very worrying substances. As far as the SP is concerned, this cannot happen soon enough. What are the possibilities of banning GenX if it has been identified as a very worrying substance? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ziengs on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Not so long ago I was in Zeeland and then I heard the story that water was extracted from the Oosterschelde to be used to rinse mussels, after which that water, which had to meet the toughest requirements, could return to the Oosterschelde. Then you think: if those demands are so heavy there, what about in North Brabant? On 5 December 2017, I was also here in Question Time and it was indeed about contaminated land that should not be disposed of. In the meantime, we see the subject on the agenda every time. Our group is very concerned about this. In any case, I would like to congratulate the Minister and, of course, the Secretary of State who is working on this dossier. Chemours ultimately had to make available data on customers of the substance that that company produces. In the end, it worked with some compulsion. In any case, I congratulate you on that. We all know that the case is organised in such a way that the province is the competent authority, oversees and has to maintain, and that Rijkswaterstaat is ultimately the enforcer. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether she intends to do more within her powers. On 16 January it sent a letter listing all kinds of measures. We can also see that she has worked very hard in this area. But where do we go from here? How many times do we have to debate this issue here? After all, we are talking about the citizen who lives in that area and who is now aware that a warning is already being issued that you cannot eat the lettuce, the kale, the witch loaf and whatever you can eat in a garden, at least in order to deal with it in moderation. Too crazy for words! In the end, it is a matter of calming the inhabitants that the water is simply marked with a safety mark and that they do not have to be afraid to eat the food that is grown in their own garden. The peace must return. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister intends to impose further conditions as a result of the commotion surrounding GenX.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	I hear a plea that the peace must return and that something must be done. It remains a little unclear to me what the VVD Group thinks should be done. Does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agree with GroenLinks that further discharges and emissions of GenX should be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	We have also seen in previous debates that sometimes certain things cannot be avoided in a production process. The final point is that the drinking water must be clean, but also the air. That's important to us. It will be up to the Minister to answer how we proceed with that. What can you do and what can't you do? I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	The company in question in America makes sure it doesn't get in the water. They have a way of filtering and storing it there. That probably has to do with the fact that there are major claims for damages in the United States otherwise. Apparently, the company estimates these risks differently and doesn't want to make those costs. So it's possible. One could say: that production process remains, but without emissions. We would very much like to get support from the VVD for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	That question was clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you. Then that was the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until quarter to three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	I've always had a bit of a fight with the chair. Now it's going up way too much again. Otherwise I will be looking at that microphone all the time and that is annoying; I prefer to see the Members of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. I am always happy to have another debate in the Chamber, but it is very annoying that we have to debate GenX all the time. You would want the problem to get out of the world. I shall begin by answering the questions put by Mr Wassenberg, the applicant for and first speaker in the debate. One of his questions was how GenX actually ends up in the surface water. This has already been dealt with indirectly in the debate. GenX may be simply used and may be effectively discharged within the terms of the Regulation, of the licence under which the holding is covered. So there is no specific accident or coincidence. As long as they comply with the conditions of the licence, they may use it. Haven't these cases become too complex for all the different competent authorities? That was a question, too. Initially, the province of South Holland was of course the first competent authority involved. Afterwards, unfortunately, more competent authorities have become involved, including the municipalities Helmond and Eindhoven, which you mentioned. The waterboards have also come on board. I can tell you that we, as the Ministry, are also keen to be involved, precisely in order to tackle this challenging problem together and to support the competent authorities in doing so. The cooperation is extremely good. Everyone is extremely aware of the seriousness of this problem, so the willingness to coordinate and share everything is enormous. I would just like to point out straight away to Mr Van Aalst that I do not think it could be improved by the fact that one competent authority throughout the Netherlands would do all these things. The cooperation is extremely good, so I see no need to do so differently. Each competent authority takes up its role well, as we have seen. We'd be happy to help with that. The same applies to RIVM and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	Is the minister finished with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	In itself, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	Before we start the debate, I think it would be good to have a clear picture of the problem. In her introduction, the Minister states that the company has a permit and is therefore entitled to dispose of the substance; that is simply in the permit. Then she says: everyone is aware of the seriousness of this problem. As far as the Minister is concerned, what is the problem we face with GenX in surface water, in soil, in air and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	There's a reason we've been under the potential of very worrying substances. These are substances that we do not yet know exactly at what level they could actually be dangerous. Of course, we do have guide values. They're looking at that, too. Fortunately, drinking water and also surface water have not yet entered a danger zone, but this substance is on the list of potentially very worrying substances for a reason, as you rightly say. There are really big questions to be asked. In the context of "better too careful than you'll regret afterwards," you want to keep an incredibly close eye on this substance. You should therefore pay particular attention to this when granting a licence, so that you can deal with it as carefully as possible and know exactly where it remains in production processes in which it can still be used. When it suddenly happens to be found elsewhere, in Brabant, everyone thinks: hey, there's no company with a permit for this at all. Then you're gonna figure out how to do that. Since Chemours is the only one in the Netherlands that has a permit for this, it is all based on contacts with Chemours. Then it is important to get a clear picture of these flows. That is also the answer to another question. Hence, we also requested the list of customers of Chemours from the company. It took a while, but we got it too. Mr Laçin has requested that they be kept confidential. That has happened by now. But we have already shared that information with the competent authorities elsewhere in the country at the time we received it, so that they can check with the waterboards in the areas concerned if GenX traces may also be found there. To date, fortunately, they have not been found anywhere else, but that investigation is continuing. If anything comes out of that, you will of course hear it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	I thank the Minister for this comprehensive answer. In fact, I think one aspect of the answer is very important. It is stated that we put such a substance on that list of potential very worrying substances for a reason and that we should be very careful with that. You should be ahead of it. As long as there is so much uncertainty about the real impact of GenX but there are a lot of indications about how dangerous it is, you should be careful. That brings me to the precautionary principle. That is something we are very much in favour of. My question to the Minister is: how are we going to ensure that we really introduce a precautionary principle with this whole list of potentially very worrying substances before we actually grant permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	I think that, of course, the company itself is at the heart of the matter in order to implement that precautionary principle and that duty of care. Then I'll answer a question about ATM as well. Who's to blame here? I think the company Chemours ATM should have informed us about this. It didn't. As soon as ATM was aware of this, the intake stopped immediately. As a company, you know you're using this substance. Then you're the one who has to provide that information to others, too. As far as I'm concerned, that signal may be very clear. The same applies to the following. Mrs Kröger also had a very good point in her speech about the research which should be further developed in May. This also goes through the competent authority of South Holland, of course. But I would also like to say, on your behalf, that the company would be very wise to take that up as soon as possible. Otherwise they really get the look of: we care about Chemours, not a thing. I think they really need to avoid that. I may say it loudly, but I think it is very good that they also show that they are doing their utmost to take this duty of care seriously and to complete all the investigations they have to do as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	The minister says GenX is on the list of potentially very worrying substances. I've been watching that. I also looked at the dangers of GenX. RIVM writes that it is potentially carcinogenic and at least liver-damaging. The substance is only used for eight years. We don't know anything about the long-term effects yet. We also don't know at all whether it's cumulative or accumulated in the body. Isn't there every reason to put that substance GenX on the list of very worrying substances as soon as possible and to say that we really don't want that substance in the environment at all? You don't know it to three decimals, but you do know you don't want it there. Shouldn't it be on the list of very worrying substances soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	I'm going back to the investigation that needs to be done. That must be done as quickly as possible, and that must be high quality. RIVM is also busy with this. As soon as we get that data, we'll be able to move on. We are, of course, also working on it at European level within the framework of the REACH Regulation. So as far as we're concerned, there's plenty of speed in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	Well, I'd argue for it to be on that list anyway. If it's all okay, we can always get rid of it. I would also like to look at the municipalities. The minister says that the competent authority in this case is the municipality. But there are 388 municipalities in the Netherlands. I've been looking at the list of customers from Chemours. There are no 388 but a number of them, and in different municipalities. You can't ask all these municipalities: make sure you're an expert in the field of GenX and make sure you can handle, control and maintain the problems yourself? You're asking too much of all these municipalities, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr Wassenberg is absolutely right, but we are not asking them to do so. We have explicitly brought together all the experts, including the people of RIVM. Of those who initially started it, the competent authority is of course the province of South Holland, the licence holder to the company. That's where the most expertise is. It's up to us. We've always offered help to spread that further. So it is not so that every municipality could possibly be something going on, which fortunately has not yet turned out elsewhere... But if so, then they will also be supported by those who unfortunately already have experience with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	The minister answered my questions about directing. She indicated that there was plenty of cooperation between all these different bodies. I've heard a lot of it come by: municipalities, RIVM, environmental services, the province as competent authority. Then there's a little muscle talk about it: I don't want them to think that it doesn't give a shit, "Chemours." What I was referring to was: let the Minister just put his fist on the table and say "boys I'm done with this unrest, we're gonna solve this now', including the chemicals sector. We solve this, we create peace in the environment, wherever in the Netherlands, rather than simmering, debate after debate. This is now the fifth debate and we have the exact same input each time with exactly the same response from the Minister, and we are not getting anywhere. We call on the Secretary of State to take the lead now. I'm not asking you to take over the authority by definition, but just take that lead role, put the fist on the table and fix it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	That's what you said. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Aalst that we want to rest on this dossier, but I do not think it would help if I were to put my fist on the table. That is not necessary either, because the competent authorities are simply working on it well. I think it's more important that we hang out together than I'm gonna make a lot of trouble right now. I don't think that's constructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	This would work very well. This is, I think, the fifth debate in a row, with surprise after surprise that comes along every time, which we Members of Parliament, as well as residents, are confronted with. It's really time for the minister to just go ahead and say, guys, I'm in charge here, and that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	I am glad that Mr Van Aalst has a great deal of faith in the Minister and that he thinks that if I did, it would all work out right away, but I do not think it is really necessary for the competent authorities to really take their role. It would be something else if we said: province or waterboards throw the hat at it, make it a jar. That is absolutely not the case. They are on top of it and take the problem very seriously. It's wiser that we help each other than we beat each other's brains out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mrs Kröger, I see you standing, but I suggest that the Minister go further with her answers, and then you will have the opportunity to interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I was still with Mr Wassenberg and his questions. He also asked whether it might not be time to conduct criminal investigations and whether there is sufficient evidence to justify this. I can answer that in public here that it is not up to us. The normal route is that a competent authority, should it think that there is such action, should refer to the functional parquet. So that's not up to us. Then I'll come to Mrs. Kroger. You have actually asked about the type of Switzerland route from Chemours and you ask whether that is perhaps a common procedure and what I think of it. Let me say, I find it at least remarkable that this is how it happens. We do not have any signals in the Ministry that this is a widespread use or something like that. I think I have just answered the question about ATM in the little interrupt debate. What possible additional conditions or permits would the Minister like to discuss with the competent authorities? As I said, we are in very good consultation with the competent authorities. We are busy with all available instruments such as the provisional list of potential Very Concerning Substances, the emission test manual, the hand-out for the ABM test and the further exchange of knowledge between competent authorities. That has our attention and that of all partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	Have Mrs Kröger's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	I've got two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	Then I suggest you answer it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mrs Kröger had also asked whether Chemours has actually provided all the data and when a standard for GenX will be introduced. You yourself indicated that Chemours should come up with results in May, if it's all right. If they do, the whole procedure will probably last until the end of this year, but that too is in the province of South Holland and RIVM. In any case, I will regularly inform you about the situation and I will keep pressure from our side to keep as much speed as possible in that process. Company information obligations. Following the motion submitted to the Water legislative consultation in November, I did indeed investigate Royal Haskoning. That was also a question from Mr Sienot, among others. There will be advice on the possibilities of such an obligation to provide information. The stakeholders' meeting Drinking Water also asked for the opinion of the drinking water companies and, through the VNCI, the opinion of the chemical companies. Their input is welcome and will be taken. As soon as that investigation is completed, I will inform the Chamber about the way in which I can give effect to that motion. I would like to assure the House that this will be done at the latest at the AO Water on 27 June. Mr President, those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mrs Kröger may now ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A follow-up to the ATM situation. In my contribution, I outlined that ATM either didn't know it or didn't process it properly. The Minister now states that ATM was not aware that the waste water they received from Chemours contained GenX, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	Then my question is whether Chemours is in breach and what sanctions will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	I think that we have another border issue here in relation to the obligation to provide information and the obligation to take care. That is why it is a good thing that we talk to all stakeholders about this. I was just saying that I think that a company like Chemours should have reported this or should have reported it on its own initiative to a company like ATM that is dealing with this. That didn't happen, because ATM wasn't aware of it. I think that is something that should be done in the future under an information obligation or whatever else you would like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	Now I am a little confused, because when companies supply waste water to a waste processor like ATM, they also provide a list of waste. Then GenX should have been on there, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	I don't know exactly how it was delivered. The fact is that ATM indicated that it was not known to them and that they also immediately stopped taking. What exactly was known at ATM, I must remain guilty for a while. If it's all right with you, I'd be happy to come back to that and let you know exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	In the second term or in writing? What's useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	Written, I think, because we will have to check with ATM and I do not think I can do that in a short suspension, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	So I am concerned about what ATM knew about what Chemours has provided, but above all about this: if Chemours wants to discharge substances that require a permit, doesn't that permit requirement apply even if the substance is in waste water that goes to a waste processor? We understand that this type of waste should indeed be reported and Chemours has been in violation here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	Good. The Minister will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	Yeah, we're gonna put that right on paper for you. I think that's the wisest thing to do, because in a file like this, you have to describe it all very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	Then Mr. Sienot. How does the Minister view Chemours' current permit? Well, it won't be surprising that I wholeheartedly support the province in the action to revise that permit. That's what's gonna happen this year. Whether or not the current licence is sufficient must be demonstrated by the process. Again, we need the research data and so on. What role does a safe chain play in the creation? Well, of course the chain approach is essential in terms of water quality. So I very much agree with Mr Sienot that the different roles of the various competent authorities must be seamlessly aligned and that the source, producer, EU REACH regulation must be compatible so that it provides safe drinking water and safe surface water. So once again, cooperation is very much needed there. How will the additional contributions from the government agreement help the minister? We're definitely gonna bet it. I have already said something about this in the letter to the House of Representatives on the 275 million for nature and large waters. In this context, we will, of course, make further arrangements in the administrative arrangements with the water sector. We have already been able to give an initial amount of €400,000 to the Waterschap Aa and Maas, in order to develop a new innovative way to improve water purification. That is just the first thing, and I think we can do a lot of good work there, where we can really help the quality of our drinking water, including in the context of drug residues and so on. Yes, Mr Van Aalst actually says: the Minister should take over the competent authority. I think we have already said enough about this in the debate on the interruption. Mr Laçin spoke about the specific transport. I would refer you to the next general discussion on external security, with the Secretary of State. Because that is about the transport of dangerous substances in the broadest sense. What possibilities does the Minister have to ban GenX once it is a very worrying substance? I must point out that, even if it is a very worrying substance, it does not immediately give us the opportunity to ban anything completely. But you can make demands to keep everything out of the environment as much as possible. Well, then a substance may be used in the production process, but it may no longer be discharged or emitted. So it is not one-on-one that a very worrying substance should not appear anywhere in the production process. However, you can of course impose a very strict obligation that this substance should be removed from the environment and should therefore only be used in a closed production process. You also asked about the link between GenX and crops and soil. I would like to refer you to the letter that the Secretary of State is going to deal with in an AO on external security, including, in domestic terms, the question of vegetable gardening. Finally, I have Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	But Mr Sienot had a question. Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	I waited for a moment for the Minister to finish her story, and I thought, "Now it's not coming." I also asked when we can expect the Administrative Agreement to be about and how fast it is going to be, especially since you yourself are right to say that it is all pieces of puzzles that need to fall apart and that we need to work streamlined together. Then it is also important that there should be a quick banging of nails. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	You're referring to the Water Management Agreement, I presume. I hope to be able to close that down in a few months. We have added a few more topics to that. For example, we have added challenges in the field of cybersecurity to the water agenda. Of course, we have a new approach to drug residues. Then there is, not to mention, the climate adaptation. I really want that to land in that agreement. At least you're gonna see that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u90	In your speech, you would have stayed with Mr. Zieng's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr Ziengs asked if I intend to take further action on the issue with GenX. Actually, we're doing that pretty much all the time, Mr. Ziengs. There is constant consultation and we constantly ring the bell, including with the ILT. That's how we got our hands on the data. We constantly consult with the provinces, with Rijkswaterstaat, with the municipalities concerned and with the environmental services in Brabant. In terms of both authorisation and enforcement and supervision, all interested parties are genuinely alert. You have been able to see the list of customers confidentially and, if anything else is to be found elsewhere, we will ensure that possible new competent authorities receive an emergency training course in GenX to support them in order to address such a situation as best as possible. So whatever it takes, we'll definitely do. Then I think I'm done with the answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you. Has there been a question left, Mrs Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u93	Yeah, could I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u95	I have another question about the Switzerland route. It was dealt with in a block with ATM and some other topics. I hear the Minister admit that this Switzerland route, this paper design, is being used by Chemours. The Minister also said that there was a request at the ministry and that it doesn't seem like it's being used further. I find it very worrying that Chemours is doing this and I would like to have more clarity about this. Is this also done by other companies in the chemical industry? Does the Minister still want to come back to that and explore whether other chemical companies use the same type of construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u96	Let me promise Mrs Kröger that we will inform the ILT if they can give more colour and if they have come across this elsewhere. We will check with the authorities that have more often to do with this whether they feel that this is widespread or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u97	In my view, one more question remains: the Minister's intention to improve the provision of information on discharged substances in a structural approach to emerging substances from point sources in relation to the protection of drinking water sources. When does it intend to put this into practice and will it inform us about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u98	Let us see when we can inform you about this. There's gonna be another letter of inquiry specifically about chemicals. That letter comes from the Secretary of State, and it's been promised before the next summer. So the Secretary of State will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u99	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party. You have one minute's speaking time. I see you walking around with a lot of motions, so you may proceed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u100	No, Mr. Chairman, it's two motions. But I also have copies, because imagine that there will be a question right away and I have already delivered my motions. Then I don't know what it's about. Well, I know that, but then I don't know exactly which consideration is meant. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. She said GenX is not on the list of very worrying substances. I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, this should be done as soon as possible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that GenX has not yet been included in the list of substances of high concern;]] [[noting that RIVM concludes that GenX causes liver damage and is potentially carcinogenic;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to place GenX on the list of very worrying substances before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u101	My second motion concerns the activation of the functional parquet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that GenX substances are toxic, have adverse effects on the liver and may be carcinogenic and that GenX does not belong in the environment, water or air at all;]] [[noting that GenX arrived in the area at various times through the company Chemours in Dordrecht;]] [[noting that GenX also ended up in the area in several places in North Brabant;]] [[Whereas repeated emissions from GenX appear to indicate a structural nature;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Department of Environmental Crime of the functional prosecutor examine whether GenX emissions should be identified and prosecuted as a form of environmental crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u104	Two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Chemours, which has the right to patent the GenX technology, has been requested to provide an overview with customers, but only after intensive consultation and for a long time wanted to deliver it to the Inspectorate for Environment and Transport (ILT);]] [[Considering that many societal costs could have been saved if the ILT had received a timely overview of all GenX flows in the Netherlands, including flows to waste processors;]] [[considers that it is of social importance that the ILT should be able to obtain marketing and transport lists from (chemical) companies in the event of environmental pollution;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the legal obstacles currently existing for the ILT to quickly request marketing and transport lists in the event of serious environmental pollution and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u105	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2018 the province of South Holland will re-assess the license of Chemours, and that this will also allow further tightening of the licence;]] [[Whereas GenX substances are found ever further away from the plant;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Province of South Holland, to examine what additional conditions may be imposed for authorisation and whether, on the basis of best available techniques, a ban on emissions and discharges of GenX can be imposed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to say that we, as D66, welcome the Minister's answers. There's extra money going to protect our drinking water. There is an even better alignment in the chain. The puzzle pieces come together better. Around the summer we hear how that sounds. So we are very curious about that letter, I just wanted to say that. We are eagerly looking forward to that. I would like to express my support for Mrs Kröger's second motion. I'd like to sign it with you. I don't know if that's allowed on this road, but that was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u107	If your name is added, we can still take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u108	That was my contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the Minister's answers. I am a little less pleased with the answers than my colleague from D66. It is a pity that the Minister does not want to take up the role of director to solve the problem, but rather to opt for emergency training courses in GenX. We don't see much in that. We will probably see each other again soon in the next debate around GenX. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I asked if we could see to what extent GenX's risk is spreading across the country, so that we don't go after the facts again when it pops up somewhere. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas GenX has appeared in several unexpected locations in recent months;]] [[noting that there are several customers of GenX in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that ex post cleaning of surface and ground water should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[invites the Government to proactively examine how environmental safety has been secured by the GenX customers of Chemours, while also mapping the waste streams of the companies concerned and informing the Chamber of the matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u113	I have one more question. That's about the best available technique. That's part of the permit. I went to work at the drinking water company Oasen. They use membrane filtration, where all substances are removed from the water and the good substances are then placed back. Is that currently a better technique than the carbon filters Chemours has? If so, should we ask Chemours, if not force them to move on to that technique? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Laçin. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can she answer directly? No, the request is to suspend the sitting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u115	I don't have the motions yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u116	Okay. The last motion is about to be copied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u117	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One more question has been put by Mr Laçin. I'd like to answer that first. Could membrane filters be better than carbon filters? I can tell Mr Laçin that carbon filters seem to be the best for the time being, but this is precisely part of the whole revision process and of the research that will take place. The best available technology will therefore have to come out of it. If a new membrane technique is better, it will certainly be prescribed. Then there's the motions. The first motion calls on the government to make every effort to place GenX on the list of very worrying substances before the summer. That sounds very sympathetic, but I would like to discourage this motion, not because I do not want the substance to be clarified as soon as possible but because I do not want to sit on the chair of the RIVM. This is the competence of RIVM, which is very active with this. Also the motion in part No. 70 I would advise against, because we are not the competent authority. The motion in part No. Mrs Kröger's 71 questions concern the legal obstacles to ILT. There are actually no legal obstacles. It's all legally regulated how that can be done. That is also the reason to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u119	A brief question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u120	Perhaps in my reading it was not clear that the word "legal" is in brackets. It's about barriers. We have had the situation that it took months and a lot of social costs to figure out what the source of that pollution was, because the ILT could not quickly get those lists. So my question is what obstacles there are and if that can be figured out, so that next time we can all settle it a lot faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u121	We can check with ILT again, but I don't think there are any real obstacles. It is mainly about whether a company delivers something quickly or very quickly or whether you really have to insist on it, after which the company does. But that's more in the company than these are really specific obstacles. So I will stick to the judgment to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 72 belong to Mrs Kröger and Mr Sienot, who still supports the motion by way of a detour. Isn't that right, Mr. Sienot? I was just about to give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u122	The confusion is complete. That's because I said "the second motion." I should have said "the first motion." That was the motion in part No. 71, which you just advised against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u123	So the motion in part No. 72 is not on behalf of Mr Sienot, but I will leave it to the Chamber, because the motion calls on the government, in consultation with the province of South Holland, to examine how this permit can be improved in the future. Of course, on the condition that the province of South Holland will also want us to think along with it, I think so, because we are very close together on the island of South Holland, of course, we would like to think along with the province of South Holland and we would like to see how we can get the most appropriate permit there. So I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mr Laçin on the same motion by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u126	Mr Van Aalst. It's okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u127	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u128	I have a question for the Minister. In the second part I read about a ban on emissions and discharges. Does the Minister want to work towards a ban? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u129	It says "and or." So we're just looking at the possibilities. If it comes to the conclusion that the potential is a very worrying substance and that the potential is carcinogenic, we should also wait and see, I think we could think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u130	All right, now you come to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yes, now I come to Mr Laçin. The motion in part No. 73 I do not want to advise, not because I disagree with the idea but simply because we as the Empire are not the competent authority on this point. You could refer this to the province of South Holland, to your party there, because the province is the competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u132	They are competent in terms of Chemours, but my motion goes much further. The debate has already indicated that there are more customers of GenX and that this is spreading across the country. I believe that the province of South Holland is not the competent authority for the whole country. Hence the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr Laçin is right, but his other competent authorities are right. They're gonna have to get it right together. In any case, we are not that competent authority. Hence the dissuading of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u134	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u135	It is true that the government is not the competent authority, but the minister can also take control of it in view of the seriousness of the problems and the concerns that exist, and talk to various competent authorities about it in order to at least manage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u136	We are supporting our role, we are helping everyone as best we can and we are bringing people together, but the competent authorities so far are very capable of doing this in a good way. If they need our help, we will be happy to be there. However, I do not see any reason to pull it away from them and bring it to myself, because they have been doing just fine so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u137	The Minister just gave a positive opinion on the motion in part No. 72 by Mrs Kröger. Perhaps she can just take it over if the rest of the Members feel the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u138	I do not see any objection in substance to adopting that motion. That's up to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u139	The Kröger motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-6.u140	I thank the Minister and the MPs. We will vote on the motions next week.
