ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the annual report on the management of State participations. That's from an AO that was held on January 17th. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Leijten speaks of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. This Minister of Finance is also a shareholder on behalf of all of us. We do this when companies have a public interest, are socially important, or if a company has been in crisis, such as ABN AMRO. Those first are of course the railways, TenneT and Schiphol. We also do it when a public service is privatised and we actually want to keep a finger on it. I think we'll get to the NS. That's why we have that. You're an activist shareholder. In addition, you can see that shareholders want to get as much out of it as possible, cut up companies and sell healthy parts or let them go bankrupt. I didn't call on the Minister to do that. However, I have called on him to be active shareholder in order to ensure that the state participations we have at least fully fulfil their employers' role. The Minister does not want to sit in the seat of the board or supervisory board of such a State participation. I'm not asking him that either, but he can talk about strategy as a shareholder. I think it would be a good idea if we asked the Minister to discuss this with the state participations. That has led me to a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Kingdom is a shareholder because it is important for the public interest;]] [[considers that the State can use the shareholdership to ensure more than the general interest of the service or the company and receive dividends;]] [[further considers that state participations can become even more a business card if they handle their staff well;]] [[calls on the Government to use its shareholders' influence on State participations to achieve equal pay between men and women, a healthy flex contract and fixed contract ratio, a safe working environment and a good handling of whistleblowers within those holdings and to inform the Court of Justice of this every year in the State Participation Management Annual Report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr President, thank you. In general consultation we discussed URENCO and the CDA's call to the government to ensure the public interests of this state participation quickly. Now it is true that after the general consultation reports have appeared in the media about possible Japanese interest in the shares URENCO. I quote: there would also be American interest, particularly in cutting Russia and China off. These messages have been denied by URENCO, in the sense that they indicate that they are not in conversation with the Japanese. However, the report on the possible interest of other countries is not denied. These messages are causing concern in the CDA Group. Not so much because we think that this minister wants to sell shares to Japan or to another country, but because we do not know that from other shareholders. With the Energiewende, German energy companies have much less interest in a share of a uranium enricher and the United Kingdom has already indicated that it wants to get rid of its share. That's why there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are grounds for believing that the co-shareholders of URENCO wish to dispose of their interest in the short or long term;]] [[Whereas, from a strategic and security point of view, it is necessary to prevent parts of URENCO coming into the hands of other countries or companies;]] [[Whereas efforts to safeguard the public interests of URENCO in consultation with the co-owners have so far been difficult;]] [[calls on the Government to cooperate under no circumstances in the sale of its own shares in URENCO;]] [[and also calls on the government to call on the co-shareholders to do so, in order to prevent shares of URENCO from being held by other countries or companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Bruins and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I was unable to participate in the AO State participations because I was in the hospital at the time. That was not serious, but nevertheless it is the reason why I will not table a motion here today, because that would go against the use. I will confine myself to a number of questions. And those questions are about Schiphol, which, of course, the minister is the main shareholder of. It also approves the Schiphol strategy in this capacity. This strategy identifies a number of issues, such as good employership, the cost sharing of security, the establishment of the border process, the sustainability of the airport and, for example, incentives to get quieter aircraft. The question is, of course, to what extent do we actually influence these issues as a government, as a shareholder. In other words, to what extent is influence perhaps necessary to allow the new choices made by this cabinet to land in the new Aviation Note? If that means a different role as shareholder, I wonder. As far as D66 is concerned, yes. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about this later. In particular, I would like to ask what role the Minister sees for himself in the selection of a new CEO. Last week the message came out that a certain hospital director no longer has a chance of being in the position of new CEO of Schiphol. But my question is more substantive as to whether the Minister believes that the new CEO is facing the challenge of greening aviation. When we look at the main elements of the profile, it is again about political antennas and social involvement, but the main challenge for aviation in the coming years is to become greener and thus contribute to the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister whether the permanent committees for IenW and Finance can obtain a technical briefing on all the ins and outs of Schiphol's shareholding, and perhaps KLM too, so that we can get a broader picture of the strategic choices, and how the Minister sees his role in selecting a new CEO exactly, how he works in this respect, and whether he agrees with us that Schiphol is ready for the first green CEO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Mulder. No? Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had a general meeting. In addition to other subjects, I have also put the emphasis on the foreign adventures of the Dutch Railways. More than 2 billion out of 5 billion turnover is achieved in England and Germany. I do not think it is up to the Dutch taxpayer to invest in competing bids on bus and rail transport in England and Germany, with all the risks that this entails. I have prepared a bit of a generic motion, because I heard that the Minister was willing to move in with it towards the PvdA, but that he was also bound by, of course, the policy that the NS now has. It's hard to throw a company like that in one piece. So I tried to formulate something in this direction that would allow the Chamber to direct the cabinet, without directly bringing the NS or the minister into major practical problems. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas state participations should be aimed at safeguarding Dutch public interests;]] [[Whereas the Dutch State should never participate in State participations on a purely profit-making or investment basis;]] [[whereas Dutch taxpayers are not there to invest in foreign holdings through the State and take risks there;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to identify the foreign holdings of state holdings with the aim of reducing and, where necessary and possible, reducing the risks of foreign holdings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD. Mr. Nijboer spoke on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. Turn on the light at home, a train that drives on time, leaving your money safely at the bank: basic security for everyone. If these securities are not delivered in the ordinary market, the government does so with its own companies. But the proper management of these companies is a separate business. That means that as a shareholder, you focus on the main lines. Yes, the VVD also attaches great importance to women in the summit, to permanent jobs and to corporate social responsibility. But no, the shareholders' meeting is not the medium for that. Management has its own responsibility. I hope that this Minister will focus on good business, so that the train will be on time and the light will really be on. This is a general consultation report, so I would like to report on the main points I raised during the AA. That was one: the VVD hopes that the minister will speed up the exit from the Volksbank, a healthy bank with a clear focus on customer interest and an efficient implementation device. It doesn't take the state anymore. Two: during the AO we talked extensively about the Dutch Railways, ProRail and foreign activities and their desirability. You cannot separate that question from a discussion about the structure of the Dutch track. Only when we have established who is doing what on that track will we know to what extent the NS is a commercial organisation or some kind of semi-government. The VVD is very happy to hold this discussion and we understand that it can be held in the coming months. I also hear my colleague Ronnes talking about URENCO. Then we're not exactly talking about the state cookie shop. I find it a little difficult to talk about state participation in the folds of a VAO about something as important as the safety of uranium enrichment. I find it hard to find any of that right now. I feel much more about having a separate debate on this for once. This should preferably be carried out in the EZ Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u11	We had this difference of opinion during the AO as well, but because the VVD specifically addresses my motion, I thought: let me ask a question anyway. What does the VVD prefer to see the government do with its state participations? Should it adjust its operations with the aim of achieving as high a dividend as possible? Or should she ensure that she shows that you can be a good employer and make a profit for the State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u12	Actually, neither. I want that train on time. That train is here to get you and me to work in the morning. That train won't go faster if it's a neoliberal train. That train won't go faster if there's a woman at the top of the NS or just a man. That train just needs to run on time. And let management do that job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u13	The funny thing is, of course, that the VVD has arranged for all that to happen. The President himself knows from a parliamentary survey what great results have been achieved by the privatisation and procurement of the railways. If you say you're not in charge of business, but you want that train to be on time, you're actually in. I agree with you that the train must be on time. I would undo the split between ProRail and NS. I think that would be very useful. I would not allow competition with all the other state-owned companies that are on our tracks and all those tenders. But taking good care of your staff, putting an end to the slippery flex, and making men and women earn the same salary for the same work seems to me to be basic conditions that the government should stand for, including in its state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mrs Leijten is now triggering me to give a lesson in history about the Dutch Railways. Those railways were nationalized in 1938. They've never been privatised. ProRail was then deducted from it and even closer to the government. There's no privatisation on track. That's one answer. Two: yes, you are absolutely right; that is all important. Besides, I think the NS is an excellent employer. I haven't heard any complaints about that lately. It's just what you want, just, do we have to worry about that here, when there's an excellent management there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you. Mr Ronnes also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u16	I have another question on the subject of the motion we tabled on URENCO. That motion is not intended to take a final decision. It only ensures that we can have the discussion that you want. If you would like to read that motion again from that field of view, you may see that we are closer together than you have suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u17	I would like to pass that question on to the Minister, because I would first like his appreciation. I also hear you say that under no circumstances. On the one hand, it is very important, but on the other hand, shareholdership is not the panacea to regulate the safety of uranium enrichment, so we are putting ourselves on hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. He can answer right away. Fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Let me try to confine myself to the things that have been raised here and not earlier in the AA. But perhaps I can still make one or two general comments. I also said that a shareholder who has a basket such as the basket for which I am responsible can count his buttons, in a positive way. There are holdings that have great public added value. That's one. Point two is that in terms of good governance, these holdings are, among other things, the elements that Mrs Leijten referred to as "beneficiary' generally distinguish themselves in a positive sense from other companies. Thirdly, they generally render quite a lot of money. As a shareholder, I am happy to receive such a package. Let me then make a few general comments in response to the questions that have been raised. Then I'll come to the motions. In reply to Mrs Leijten's questions, I am going to say a few words about the distinction between the shareholder, the board of directors and the supervisory board. But I think I should start with Mr Paternotte's questions, because they were really new in some sense. In addition, it is important to note once again that we have made a very conscious choice for the model as we have laid it down in the Netherlands. The shareholdership, with its responsibilities and limitations, lies with the Minister of Finance. The policy responsibility, which in some respects is narrower but in other respects wider, lies with the Minister or the State Secretary for Infrastructure. That's the first thing that's important to say. Then there's the second thing I'd like to say. Mr Paternotte specifically asked about a different role and the strategy. Schiphol is currently working on a new master plan. It also defines the strategy for the period up to, I believe, 2025. The strategy is primarily up to the board of directors and the supervisory board, but it is something you also have an influence on as a shareholder, especially as you get the impression that that strategy should look different. That's what I switched in the AO. That is what I would like to say in reply to Mr Paternotte's first questions. Then he asked me a second and third question about the appointment of the CEO. As far as the CEO and the role of the government are concerned, it is prudent and sensible for me to stick to my reading as a shareholder. This means that it is up to the supervisory board to appoint a new chairman of the board. In practice, there is a long list of names which is also given to the Ministry of Finance for inspection. Well, that's a logical moment to think about it or not. It is then up to the Commissioners to make a selection. Could you, as a shareholder, be much more active on this? Sure, but I wouldn't like it, considering the responsibilities. Eventually, even at the end of the ride, a shareholder can say: I don't really like this gentleman or lady; go back to square one. But that seems to me to be very complicated, precisely in cooperation with the supervisory board. We took good note of the profile. We then took good note of the long list. On this basis, the Supervisory Board has started work. It seems sensible to me that I should not go into detail about who applied or did not apply for, because we never do. But I think it is important to point out that we are opting for a situation in which we are not going to cross or supplement it on a large scale, because that is just up to the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Paternotte, you may place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Madam President. I understand your explanation of the construct that we have indeed chosen, but the question is whether it is logical, especially if there are so many social interests in it, that Schiphol's shareholding on the one hand and its policy on Schiphol on the other hand are treated as separate worlds. Is that something you say: I want to go through with that? Or do you also want to talk about it with your colleague, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, how we can do it better towards a new Aviation Note? My second question concerns the CEO. I understand your explanation very well, but is it true that you have not played any part since that longlist? Or is there indeed some consultation with the Ministry of Finance on the shortlist that was made afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u22	That first one is a general interior question. In the Netherlands, the general choice has been made to separate shareholdership and policy responsibility, not only at Schiphol Airport but in all state participations. Like my predecessors but also my immediate predecessor, I think that this has really been a sensible choice, because these are two different roles. I do not think you would improve the situation if you put the Minister of Infrastructure in the situation where she also has to take on the tasks I take on. It would be even worse if the Minister of Finance also took on the policy responsibility. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is wise to tear it apart, but then, of course, you should make sure that Mr Paternotte would like to see the strategy in this case of Schiphol, but I think that this discussion will also include those elements that you might expect from a party such as Schiphol, with a clear public responsibility. That is the answer to the first question put by Mr Paternotte. As far as the second question is concerned, yes, of course there is more contact. Sometimes it's official, sometimes it's me. Next comes a shortlist, which I can also find something about. My own approach has been as follows: I have also discussed it with the Ministry: I prefer to do things at the very beginning of the process rather than somewhere halfway, because I think that the Commissioners should be able to assume their responsibilities. So if you have to choose, I will choose a model whereby you can make sure in advance that the profile is the way you would like it to be, also in view of the great social importance. Because this new CEO of Schiphol must be someone with knowledge and skills and commercial skills, but it must also be someone who has a good sense of the region and a great ability to deal with it. We all know the problem. So that's the part of the profile. That's one. Two is about the longlist. That is, of course, an opportunity for the Ministry to check whether we believe that the people on that long list are in line with that. Possibly, and you could call that "2a": are there any other people we think should be on that list? That is the type of process I imagine we should normally go through. Because if I do that now, and at the beginning give little clarity about the profile or give little clarity about the list of candidates, but I am ultimately dissatisfied, then I may be able to express my opinion, but then I will also put the Commissioners and the companies in a complicated situation, because then I will actually do something that I think I should have done at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Paternotte, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u24	I am glad that the Minister is not holding on to that absolute separation but is putting a nuance in it. That's great. I have one more question. In the end, we did not privatize Schiphol at some point also because of a veto of the municipality of Amsterdam because of its social interest. What social interest do you feel as a shareholder primarily responsible for, more than the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u25	It is, of course, a responsibility that we feel there. I'm about to make an attempt to list, but I'm going to say immediately that I'm probably gonna forget what part of the Chamber or people are going to say, why did you forget? Schiphol obviously has an obvious interest in the Dutch economy, in the hub function and facilitating KLM, which not only this Chamber, but also I attach great importance to. Schiphol has a clear interest in the field of direct employment, not the indirect employment to which I referred, but also employment at Schiphol itself. Schiphol also has an obvious public role in relation to the environment and to the really complicated balance that we all see, I think, between on the one hand the understandable desire of aviation to grow, and on the other hand the desire of residents that their interests should also be taken into account. I'll call those four. I think those are the most important ones. I do not mention them in a specific order; I think all four are crucial. These issues therefore have a high priority for me, but of course, and much more intensively, for the Minister for Infrastructure. I would like to add that much of the daily dialogue with state participation is, of course, conducted by the Minister responsible, not by me. Mr. Chairman. Then I owe Mr Paternotte an answer to the tail of his question. That was about whether there was a greening in that profile. He actually said it even better: will that be the first green CEO or the first green chairman of the board? We'll have to wait and see. I have the impression that the public element, or the public elements in the plural, are explicitly guaranteed in that profile. We all see, especially the Supervisory Board, the challenges facing aviation in the area of environment and greening. Look also at the thoughts about additional taxes, although this is not so much about Schiphol Airport as about the airlines. Whether Mr Paternotte is saying that this is indeed the first green CEO, or that we have to wait a few more years for it, is still written in the stars. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. I must perhaps give Mrs Leijten a more detailed answer, although we have already had an exchange of views on this subject during the AA. It is really about the question: what does the shareholder do, what does the Commissioner do and what does the board do? In doing so, it is worth underlining that we have a specific separation between the role of the shareholder, in the person of the Minister of Finance, and that of the policy-holder, in the person of usually the Minister of Infrastructure and sometimes the Minister of Economic Affairs. I think Mrs Leijten has also borrowed something from the terminology I used on this point, which I consider to be an active but not an activist shareholder. This means that I consider all the issues raised by Mrs Leijten to be important and that they are also part of the dialogue. But at the same time I also said in the AO that I think it is crucial that I don't make one big soup out of it, and then everyone goes about everything. That is also right, given what is described in the Civil Code about the responsibilities of the board of directors, the supervisory board and the shareholder. They have other responsibilities. The board is in charge of management, the supervisory board supervises, and the shareholders provide the capital and jointly have all the powers that are not conferred on the board or others. The State as a shareholder is farther away from the day-to-day practice of the company than the board, which, under the supervision of the supervisory board, controls the company. The consequence is also that many of the things that Mrs Leijten, like myself, considers important will appear in the annual reports of state participations, but will not have to appear in great detail in the annual management of state participations. However important they are, and however much they are part of the dialogue, certainly from the trade minister, but also from me, with the state participations, the motion as it has been drafted, I would like to advise against. I think that does not surprise Mrs Leijten, given the exchange of views we have had on this matter before. Mr. Chairman. Then I am in favour of Mr Ronnes' motion on item No. 278. That is also a subject to puzzle on, no matter how important URENCO is of course. The escape clause of this motion is a bit in the word 'now', because the words 'under no circumstances' give rise to the suggestion of 'for now and for all eternity'. That's a period I'm having a hard time overseeing. I fully agree with the view that the technology of URENCO and its knowledge should not be in the hands of the wrong people. I would like to emphasise that. It is precisely in order to safeguard those interests that the State is a shareholder of URENCO. Mr Ronnes and others are aware of the complex situation. We have the so-called Treaty of Almelo. But although we would like to do something, the situation is that outside the countries which are co-signatories of that treaty before one cannot, must or will not go on. Moreover, the British and German authorities fully support the point I have just made that we should not let URENCO fall into the wrong hands. With those comments, with the remark that the sale of the Dutch share is in no way at issue and the safeguarding of public interests is a priority and with the fact that with the word "now" there is an escape clause, I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I come to Mr Nijboer's motion on item No. 279. Mr Nijboer and I discussed the NS in particular. His motion is now more general. There's a bit of a dilemma going on. I can go a long way with Mr Nijboer, especially where, with a lot of nuance, he was specific about one state participation in one particular country: the NS in Britain. At the same time, I also told him and the rest of the Chamber that I would like to pursue my predecessor's policy and that under specific circumstances there could indeed be undertaking abroad. That is why I find the wrong suggestion to make of the motion. In this form, I advise against her. However, as I said to Mr Nijboer in the AO, I would like to remain in dialogue with the Chamber. We all see... Well, let me not exaggerate. Many in this House agree that part of the foreign activities are sensible and that there is a clear rational way to do so. It is also clear that there is at least one State participation in the foreign activities for which a large part of the Chamber has questions. And there's probably something in between. I would like it to be part of the dialogue here. I am certainly going to talk about this with each of the State's participations in activities abroad. But the motion in this form I advise against. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, that was the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u26	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u27	And final term, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u28	Exactly. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-9.u29	Excuse me.
