ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the evaluation of the Youth Act. The Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport is present on behalf of the Cabinet. The Minister for Legal Protection is not present, but the Minister of VWS is going to answer all questions. Nine speakers have signed up from the Chamber. First, Mrs Westerveld speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This evaluation of the Youth Act shows that the objectives of this Youth Act have not yet been achieved. That is the first sentence of the evaluation, a report of 637 pages. Of course, this is also due to the fact that the system was introduced only three years ago. Three years is long for children and parents who are waiting for child care, but shortly for such a complex system change. The aim of the Youth Act is to simplify the youth system, to make it more efficient and effective and to put young people at the centre. If we look at the effects, there's still way too much going wrong. For example, one in three parents does not know who they should be with for youth assistance. That's painful, because if your child isn't well, you want to know where you can go. Together with colleague Kooiman of the SP, I filed a motion a year ago asking for a contact point per municipality. That motion didn't make it back then. Is the Minister prepared to take the view from this evaluation that one in three parents do not know where to go for youth aid, yet to work with this central point of contact? In the same debate a year ago, I asked about the status of the waiting lists. I have done this before, as have several colleagues. The Minister indicated a while ago that he could not share a large Excel file with the Chamber, but that he would like to express the status of the waiting lists in another way. Does he have any idea how? On what time can we expect this? In the previous debate, at the end of May, the Minister told about the regional expert teams that could be deployed in complex situations and waiting lists and that would be nationwide. I have heard several signals that this is not yet the case. Can the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. More and more children end up in closed youth aid, 10% in two years. This is contrary to the Minister's ambition to allow children to grow up at home as much as possible. Expatriation really has to be a last resort. Freedom-limiting measures, such as isolation, can also be used in these closed institutions. We don't know how often this happens. I ask the Minister to keep up with this and to make sure that fewer children will end up in closed youth care in the coming years. The evaluation also notes that the ambition to place out-of-home children in foster homes has not been achieved. How are the plans to recruit and retain more foster parents? Earlier, a motion from me was adopted asking for young people to be granted the right to extended youth assistance and extended foster care after their 18th birthday. The Minister has already been busy making foster care possible for longer, but youth care is left behind. In the meantime, the Health and Society Council also calls for the care and support that best suits young people rather than age. Parents are subject to maintenance until their child is 21 years old. Then why do not municipalities have a similar duty of care? In addition, young people must of course be well supervised after they have become 18 years of age. Defence for Children and Unicef indicate that there must always be a plan and a contact before a young person leaves an institution or youth support. How does the Minister see this? Then another big bottleneck, housing. What happens to children who are in a closed institution and who are 18 years old? They have to get out of that facility, while there's also a huge housing shortage. The residence principle also causes problems. The agreement is that in the event of a lack of clarity as to which municipality the care is to pay, municipalities resolve this between themselves. This agreement is of course good, but we hear that it often goes wrong in practice. That law will be amended, but not until 2020. I ask the Minister if he can make sure that there is any improvement in the short term. Then there's the participation, Mr. Chairman. One of the rights of children is that they are actively involved in policies that concern them. I mentioned this this this morning in the debate on child abuse. The evaluation shows that young people are not sufficiently listened to. In addition, young people and parents are often not actively reminded of their rights. Also in municipalities things are not going well. In only 18% of the municipalities children are involved in child abuse policy. It is nice that the Minister wants to talk about the involvement of young people, but does he also want to go further and map out where things are not going well and actively appeal to both municipalities and youth aid institutions? Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the Minister to respond to the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. UNICEF and Defense for Children note that there are considerable concerns when it comes to helping vulnerable children there. Mr. Chairman. I will close with a comment on the money. Weekly we receive letters from organizations and municipalities about too low budgets. When I speak to aldermen, including aldermen of the coalition parties here, I really hear from everyone that there are enormous concerns and that municipalities do not come up with the budget. We can have a very technical discussion here about the Community Fund and the acres...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would therefore ask him above all to take municipalities seriously and to listen to them. If we do not do that, then we will have little to do with decentralisation, as I would ask the Minister. If the VNG estimates that the deficit is EUR 300 million and municipalities cannot solve the puzzle, then GroenLinks sees here at least a role for the system responsible: the minister. That is why I would like to ask whether he is prepared not to wait and to do research on the expenditure of the municipalities this summer and whether they will receive sufficient funding. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. I see another interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u4	I have a question about the latter. The municipalities, united in the VNG, have made a deal with the Empire. That deal is the one Mrs Westerveld is already referring to. In that they agreed to present a solution to the deficits. There's an extra 200 million for that. The VNG signed it. I believe this will be on the table next weekend at the VNG Congress. But do I understand why Mrs Westerveld says that the municipalities didn't make a good deal? Or how should I interpret these words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u5	No, you don't understand that very well. All I'm saying is that the municipalities say that you hear that from individual aldermen, but also from the VNU that they're short. This does not give young people the right help and, for example, the waiting lists are far too long. I would therefore ask the Minister to make it clear in the study that is to come whether municipalities have sufficient budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u6	We had a technical briefing on that in this house on Wednesday. As I understand it, two elements are being investigated at the moment, namely the deficits in municipalities and the question of whether they are correct or whether the macro-budget is being used within the framework of youth aid. What element would Mrs Westerveld add to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u7	I am aware that no extensive research is being carried out into whether the macro-budget will be forthcoming. I therefore ask the Minister to take that out specifically and to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuiken, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr President, thank you very much. Every child should be able to be a child, even if you can't live at home for a while, if your parents need help or if you need care of yourself. We need to be sure that we arrange everything in our power as best we can to ensure care for those children. Mr. Chairman. If we look at the evaluation of the Youth Act, we can simply see that we are not yet there and that it will probably take some time to get there. There are a number of things that local authorities also consider to be positive. We see that prevention may improve and that more children will be reached more quickly. Nevertheless, there are still enough concerns. I'd like to go over some things with the Minister. Firstly, referrals by, for example, the general practitioners. They still don't quite know who they're going to go to for which child. In particular, it concerns referrals of vulnerable groups, such as children with a migrant background. But there is still much to be desired from the specialist youth care and support services. I spoke with a friend of mine this week who works in the youth care department herself, and I asked her if she could explain to me exactly where it pinches. She told me this. In basic youth care much is well arranged, but especially when it comes to the more difficult cases, no one ultimately has a problem owner. The municipalities say they can't do it alone, so they refer to another municipality. The municipalities together do not have the overarching domain to tackle this together. There is no democratic control of that either. And the Empire says, "I don't take it anymore." At the same time, the Minister also comes out of the nest saying that 'we are not about' does not exist. I therefore ask the Minister how we are going to ensure that the more difficult groups, the more specialised care groups, do not fall apart, because we all do not want the latter. Mrs Westerveld has rightly asked questions about the waiting lists. They will have to be reduced to the left or to the right. If waiting lists are too long, the damage to the children concerned will only increase and the risks will increase. No one in this house thinks that's acceptable. I agree with the questions that have been asked about the increase in the number of children entering closed care services, while it was the intention, also through care close to municipalities, that we would encounter less. It was intended that the number of children in the closed care system would decrease, but that is not the case. I'd like a response from the Minister. I also have a question about the tenders. Helping children is not a product. Those children are not the new windows of the town hall, or the new cycle path that is being built. The tenders are likely to provide the lowest price, but not the best quality. Moreover, they are often unnecessarily complicated. I know there are plans to do something about this. I also know that the Minister, in his old role as alderman, has always strongly opposed this. That is why I want to know what is going on with the Minister's ambitions and whether municipalities can really count on the completion of the tender procedure for this youth aid. I come to my final point. This concerns the rates and budgets available for youth aid and youth care. I do not want to talk too much about the technical details, but I want to confine myself to the following. On the one hand, the cabinet has made more money available. That's great. At the same time, however, mayors of municipalities say that this is not enough for the challenges they face. I have a simple question: can we find ourselves in a situation where there is no agreement at the forthcoming UNG Congress? Is there a risk and, if so, how will the Minister act? This is my first debate on youth aid and the evaluation of youth aid, so I have some modesty. I will make a number of work visits this summer. In any case, I look forward very much to working with colleagues and the Minister, all in the interests of good care for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you. It is good that you have stayed so well within your speaking time. I call Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One after the other is called the alarm clock, because there are major deficits in youth care. The number of young people receiving youth care is rising rapidly, but the budget has been cut considerably. More and more municipalities are getting into trouble. Children, young people and their parents suffer from this. To put it concretely, we now know what this means, namely that it prevents children from being placed out of the house more quickly, because there is no place elsewhere. It also means that in some cases young people end up in closed care because there is no other care for them. That's what tonight's debate is about. We are discussing decentralisation and austerity, but this is what we are talking about: these young people who are in trouble. The Minister consistently talks about "experienced deficits" in municipalities. He then says that the local council should take control and that municipalities, if there is not enough money for youth care, should take the money from somewhere else. You'll only live in one of those municipalities where household help for the elderly is cut again to make sure that children still get the care they need. That's a contradiction you wouldn't wish for in a community. In the past week, I have asked fellow party members how big the deficits in youth care are now. Indeed, it is not everywhere, but for the most part the millions of shortages are flying around you. The reserves are being emptied. One hole is closed by punching a hole somewhere else. The city of The Hague alone is 14 million euros short of the budget for youth care. The municipality of Heerlen has to get 13 million euros from somewhere else to cope with the deficits in youth care. The entire province of Groningen has a combined deficit of 30 million euros. This has to do with the fact that there are not only deficits in youth care. Municipalities are also half compensated for the new system for their own contribution in the Wmo. The Minister is also considering raising the age of foster care to 21 years. Who's gonna pay for all that? We already know the Minister's answer. He'll say municipalities have made the best deal ever. They couldn't have made a better deal with anyone, he says. For the time being, no one has been able to explain to me what is to be paid out of these extra funds that go to the municipalities. Calling out that 2 billion is a lot of money is very easy; we can all do that. It is particularly easy if you do not tell us what is to be paid out of the 2 billion, namely the deficits in the WMO, the construction of natural gas-free neighbourhoods, money for refugee policy, climate policy, building maintenance, rural policy, and so on. Extra money, but also a lot of extra tasks. It is not for nothing that the 40 medium-sized cities are saying that things are not going well. They disagree with the Minister. They say there's gonna be big deficits for youth care and the Wmo. I would like a response from the Minister to these concerns of the G40. After a pretty destructive evaluation of the Youth Act, the Minister came up with his plan for care for Youth. This programme must solve the major problems. But how is that going to work, if virtually all the municipalities already have deficits and national specialist institutions indicate that, if they continue to do so, they may no longer exist in a few years' time? For three years, the Minister has provided EUR 36 million to strengthen the base, as he calls it, but the cuts in recent years have severely damaged the base, and these are structural problems. You can't solve that with occasional money. I'd like to hear if the Minister agrees. Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that good proposals are made in the Minister's plan. We are also pleased that there is a ban on the use of separate cells. But how realistic is that goal? There is already a need for more caregivers on the group. How's the minister gonna pay for that? Does he realize that closing the separate cell requires extra staff and therefore extra money? Is that money gonna be there? This week we were able to read that the number of young people entering the closed care system has increased considerably. Sometimes too long waits for young people to receive specialist assistance and young people sometimes stay behind closed doors due to lack of place elsewhere. I think we all find that unacceptable. The Youth Act was intended to provide less expensive specialized care, more coherence and more space for the professional. Of these three objectives, the evaluation and so on, the professionals have failed to achieve enough. And it turns out that especially families who need the help most have the most difficulty in getting that help. In Amsterdam, general practitioners had to fight for a year in order to be able to refer children to the ggz, like these children who need care. The municipality wants to keep a grip on the expenses. But we're not gonna let this go at the expense of medical care that children need? When dealing with the Youth Act, and also with the adoption of the Keijzer amendment, it is clear that the municipality should not interfere with the referral by doctors. Can the Minister confirm that? Is he willing to make it clear to congregations that mental health care is not negotiable through the home or youth doctor? When the Youth Act was introduced, the SP feared the cuts and the high speed of the transition to the municipalities and the many loose ends in the law. We pointed out the risk that children would fall between shores and ships by waiting lists and greatly reducing budgets. The evaluation shows that the objectives of the Youth Act have not yet been achieved and that those most in need of care are the ones most lost in the system. There is a very great task for this minister. The combination of cuts, waiting lists, invitations to tender, changes in youth workers and referrals is now causing major problems. And that is quite rightly the criticism from the sector itself. The action plans are beautiful, but they can't be free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u12	I hear Mr. Hijink passionately keeping a big story. I'm glad of that in itself. It's about that it's not all right: the money is not good, the SP had warned about it, it's all terrible. But I don't hear Mr. Hijink actually giving a solution direction at all. If Mr. Hijink has a tip for the minister, what does he look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u13	I can give you those tips. If you put your ear to your ears in the sector, then it is also very clear which tips that should be. Of course, the tasks should never have been assigned to the municipalities with such a huge cut-off. That's what we're stuck on right now. The SP has never been opposed to tasks going to the municipality, but we are opposed to the speed with which this has happened and to the major cuts that have been made. I just said it. If you want to solve the problems, you're really gonna have to look at them first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u14	I asked Mr. Hijink for a tip. Mr. Hijink starts again saying what was not right, and so on, and so on, but I ask Mr. Hijink what he now advises the Minister to do. 'Cause no one can turn back time. And that the SP according to Mr. Hijink was right, I'm sure it's all right, but what does Mr. Hijink think now is the best solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u15	The best solution seems to me to start with: ensuring that municipalities and youth care institutions have sufficient resources to do what they are on earth. Municipalities should not have to go around with the hat to ensure that children get the care they need. Let's start with that. We'll be a long way from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mrs. Tielen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u17	Does Mr. Hijink then recognise that the Minister has sent a letter about the financial domain of the European Union that there can be a line behind it, that there is an additional 200 million from the intergovernmental programme, that there is three times 36 million in transformation funds and that there are also all kinds of increases? Can't Mr. Hijink just say, "Okay, let's move on now"? And what's Mr. Hijink's next tip? Or are we gonna keep going in circles?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u18	If you've just cut the whole youth care down, I understand that this is the easiest solution: let's put a line on it. The 200 million is paid for half by the municipalities themselves. So that's a cigar out of your own box, I'd say, and then you have that incidental 3 times 36. I mentioned the little research we did under 32 municipalities. We didn't have much time; the Minister doesn't do that research, so we had to do it ourselves. These 32 municipalities alone reported a deficit of 75 million euros in 2018. And that's 32 municipalities I'm talking about. They're structural problems. When you arrive with an occasional fund of 200 million, of which 100 million is paid by the municipalities themselves, everyone understands that this is a drop in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you. I call Mr Raemakers on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Is the glass half full or half empty? The first sentence of the evaluation is: this evaluation shows that the objectives of the Youth Act have not yet been achieved. What were those targets? We wanted to help young people more at home and less in institutions. We wanted to help young people sooner, not when it's too late. We wanted to help young people better by creating more cooperation between professionals. Mr. Chairman. According to some, the decentralisation of youth aid, the Empire and the provinces to the municipalities would be a major catastrophe. Luckily, it didn't work out. Most municipalities have well embedded youth aid as a new task. Most children and older people are also satisfied with the help provided, and here and there we already see real improvements in the provision of care. However, the transformation goals have not been achieved, at least not yet, according to the evaluation. More young people are using youth aid. More young people are placed in closed institutions. The waiting lists for specialist assistance are not decreasing, but are constantly on the news, as is the case with decentralisation. And the children and families who need the help the most know how to find the way to help the most difficult. That's a cause for concern. I ask the Minister if he recognizes this image of a half-full glass. How are we gonna get the glass all full? I want to look at three cases today. Access via the district team, the continuity of the help and the psychiatry of children and youth. First of all, access through the district team. The Minister proposes to look for suitable basic criteria for the district teams to make sure that is clear what you can expect from a local team. D66 strongly supports this, because the evaluation shows that almost half of the district teams sometimes employ professionals who are not registered in the Youth Quality Register. Then how do we know for sure that they deliver the good quality? This can also be difficult for employees themselves. Do they feel sufficiently protected in the exercise of their profession? At the same time, we also hear sounds from municipalities that it is difficult to find suitable staff for the local teams, so we do not want to cause any problems for municipalities and the neighbourhood teams either. But is the Minister prepared to examine how to improve the connection of employees in the district team to that quality register? And how is the Minister going to ensure that quality increases, but at the same time that there is sufficient staff available for the district teams? My second point is the continuity of aid. Young people's helpers are changing too often. Children and their parents have the feeling of having to do their story over and over again: from the cabinet to the wall. All this would be resolved with the new Youth Act, but that is a dream for the moment. A younger person will notice that when he or she turns 18. Then youth aid suddenly stops in many municipalities, from one day to the next, while most young people still have a simple need for help. The Minister will come forward with his plan to solve this in the autumn. Then why didn't you tell me? Extend youth aid to 23 years old. This is already the case: see Article 1.1 of the Youth Act. If the aid has started before the young person is 18 years old and a continuation of the aid is needed, then a municipality is simply obliged to do so on the basis of the duty of youth aid. And municipalities receive 300 million euros each year, not a small amount of money for the 18-plus care. Where's all that money? Is it being used properly? And is the minister going to sit behind the municipalities just to deliver the extended youth aid quickly? Mr. Chairman. My third and final point concerns children's and youth psychiatry. The position of child and youth psychiatry has not been specifically investigated in this evaluation. That was agreed, at D66's intercession. I can't get a hold of waiting lists in child and youth psychiatry. Psychiatrists complain about the administrative burden, so they do not have enough time to treat a child. Access via the district team or through the GP also a very important itinerary is far from going well everywhere. Of course, this is separate from the many good examples that we know in the meantime, from municipalities where a nice collaboration has developed between the district team, the practical supporter, the general practitioner and the youth-ggz. We do know those examples. But we also get more and more sounds that children's psychiatrists stop and switch to the adults-ggz, because there you are not dependent on a good or bad congregation. So I hope that the Minister will be able to undertake today to investigate the functioning of the youth ggz. This could be done, for example, with some kind of action study, where we not only identify the bottlenecks that exist, but also solve them equally. The sector itself requests this to be done within the ZonMw knowledge development programme. And now let ZonMw have just done this evaluation of the Youth Act. So we think that would fit just fine. Will the Minister respond to the sector and work out a research assignment together with the child psychiatrists and psychologists? Of course, we must also involve parents and children and young people. My glass is still half full, but the shrinks' stuff sometimes seems half empty. Minister, seize this opportunity and research the quality of the spring water, in the interests of our children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u21	I just mentioned the story from Amsterdam in my own contribution. There, general practitioners had to negotiate extensively with the municipality not to be intervened in their referrals to the youth psychiatry. What does Mr Raemakers think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u22	We consider the right of referral of the general practitioner to be very important. That was also one of the amendments to the Youth Act tabled by Mrs Keijzer, and we thought that was a very good amendment. That was also really necessary for us to support this Youth Act. If a general practitioner considers it necessary for a child to be referred directly, that should be possible. So I share with you the thought of redirecting that question to the Minister. I'll add the following. I believe that psychiatrists and psychologists, and also the youth-ggz sector, should think about what is going on within a family and that they should also think about full support for young people. This does not affect the right of referral, but I also believe that the youth-ggz has a duty to provide comprehensive care. It would be nice, of course, I have mentioned the examples as a municipality that regulates well in the district team with a practical supporter. So maybe we can share those best practices a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u23	That sounds good to me. I also think that it belongs to the professionalism of youth psychiatrists and youth psychologists to look at the conditions in which a child grows up and lives. That also makes sense to me, because it is part of their work. If it turns out that municipalities do raise thresholds or interfere with the referrals of doctors, does Mr Raemakers agree with me that the Minister should write to the municipalities that this goes against the Youth Act and that this is out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u24	The question is, of course, when are thresholds to be set? That will, of course, vary on a case-by-case basis. A number of legal cases are mentioned in the evaluation of the Jeugwet. I find it difficult for the Minister to replace that task. In my view, the Minister should make it very clear that the right of referral of the general practitioner is normal. I also think that the Minister can play a role in sharing best practices. As I have just explained, the Minister could also help us greatly by doing that research on the youth ggz. I would be very careful to say that at least the Minister must take immediate action. In my view, this would be too detrimental to decentralisation. I also doubt it's that serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u25	Thank you. I think you were done with your speech. Mr Peters has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the evaluation of the Youth Act. An important subject, if not the most important one today, I think. About two weeks ago, we were standing here and talking about the same subject. That was good and useful. In my contribution back then, the waiting lists and the question of finances were more or less central. I will therefore put less emphasis on these issues in my contribution today. Mr. Chairman. The evaluation of the Youth Act has the format of a medium-sized telephone book, but the summary has been made quickly. The transition has been successful without too many accidents, but the transformation, the real change, has not or has not yet taken place completely. The evaluation gives clear recommendations and the Minister's improvement plan actually adopts those recommendations one-on-one. The experts at the various hearings were also very clear about this. This plan is in line with the evaluation. Good news, then. But agreements have also been made in the coalition agreement. Steps are being taken to this end. A hold of that. There will be a legislative proposal to combat the fragmentation of regions. There will be a legislative proposal to reduce administrative burdens. A fund of EUR 200 million has been set up to help municipalities which face a build-up of deficits in the social domain. Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to achieve three things today and seeks assurances from the Minister. I will dwell on this in my contribution a little bit longer. Firstly, the accumulation of procedures and complaint, disciplinary and supervisory authorities. It happens that a professional has to answer and defend himself seven times about one and the same fact or complaint. That is without the possibility of appeal. Professionals have lost quite a bit of their time and especially energy with such procedures for up to two years. It is very important that parents' complaints are picked up professionally and it is of the utmost importance that this goes legally well. Of course, an appeal should be possible, but this is very gritty. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that a build-up of procedures and agencies might be a good thing? Does the Minister have any indication of how much time, money and energy this costs? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that too many procedures and accountability can be crippling? What does the Minister think of Mr Adri van Montfoort's proposal that professionals should only be justified for the same fact once, including, of course, the possibility of appeal? Does the Minister undertake to examine how a change in the accumulation of procedures and bodies in the spirit of the above could become a fact? Mr. Chairman. Professionals in youth care are maddened by all these procedures and by the fact that, for example, they have to account for about the same thing in 27 municipalities in a different way. We will soon be done with the latter, as stated in the coalition agreement. On the first, I would like a commitment from the Minister. Second. Families with more than one request for help have to do with up to four laws: the Youth Act, via the municipality, the Long-Term Care Act, through the Health Care Office, the CIZ and the Social Insurance Bank, the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act. The CDA has several examples of families who no longer see the bureaucratic forest through the administrative trees. They do not receive the care they need, but every problem is dealt with separately. With great difficulty it sometimes succeeds to make a kind of family arrangement for such a family. There are examples of that, so it can be done, but oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that families with multiple problems and needs often have to do with many, too many, funding flows and multiple accountability models? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that these irrefutable tangles of rules are more sickening than helping? Is the Minister prepared to examine how the instrument of the family arrangement, which municipalities do use, financed from different flows, could be used more easily? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the CDA calls for attention to be paid to a special target group, a target group falling between shore and ship: single mothers with children who have no permanent residence or residence. The CDA has several cases of children who have been removed from the mother, because, as a matter of fact, they lack suitable living space. But if the problem is the lack of a living space, then removing a child is not a solution. Moreover, everyone actually thinks that mothers with children should be given priority in the allocation of a home. The problem should therefore be resolved quickly in most municipalities, if you do not have to be registered for the allocation of a property. And that's hard to do without a place to stay or a place to stay. Does the Minister recognize...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u27	May I interrupt you for a moment? Because there really is an interruption by Mrs Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u28	I'm so in my story, Mr. Chairman, I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u29	Yes. Mrs. Peters, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mrs Tielen, with a question to Mr Peters. I recognize very well the picture Mr Peters gives of the different laws and problems. In the case he describes afterwards, the same is actually the case. People have to deal with both the housing regulation and the income regulation and I know what it is. Mr. Peters is asking for an arrangement. My question is whether Mr. Peters sees that as a solution, or whether the solution lies with an official or district team aid worker who looks at the aid question in its entirety and without all the complicated protocols simply says: yes, sir, ma'am, we are going to help you with your request for help that runs right through all those laws. So my question to Mr Peters is: is the arrangement the solution, or is the solution perhaps somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u31	The arrangement is the solution. The problem is that because of all these rules, which we all have to adhere to so neatly, we are not at all so easily able to achieve these arrangements. That has been taught us all decently. Everyone actually knows what the solution would be, namely full help to that family in this case, but that is hardly what we are dealing with, because we are dealing with these different rules and laws. We have partly agreed on them ourselves, but it turns out to be very complicated to deviate from them. I told you, it can, but with a lot of effort. I know examples of municipalities where it is possible with great difficulty and such an arrangement actually works. I would like to see an investigation into how we can make this generally accessible and easier for municipalities, precisely because we should share good examples of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u32	If Mr Peters is referring to a kind of 'healthy understanding' arrangement where a number of protocols might be thinner, then I support his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u33	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I like common sense. Let us use it and give it room for manoeuvre. That's the call, too. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to my speech. Does the Minister recognise the specific problems of single mothers without permanent residence and residence? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that these problems can actually be eliminated without much effort? Is the Minister prepared to engage in talks with local authorities and to come to a possible common sense protocol with the UNG, Mrs Tielen, in order to really help these women? And I don't mean from the rain in the drip. Mr. Chairman. In summary. The CDA recognizes itself in the findings of the evaluation. The CDA welcomes the Minister's plan of action. The CDA draws attention to three concrete points of improvement. I have just mentioned them and hope for firm commitments from the Minister. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u34	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u35	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are discussing the first evaluation of a law that was passed by the Second and First Chambers not so long ago. It is therefore also an intermediate position. It is clear that we are not yet there, but that the necessary progress has been made. When evaluating a new law or budgeted new legislative projects, the tendency may also arise at some point to romanticize the past a little and to idealize the future after that law. Well, the past wasn't romantic at all, because we were all longing for a new law. It was incredibly complicated and opaque. There has been a parliamentary working group. There were all sorts of complaints from the practice. So it was a good step that was taken. But at the same time, it is certainly not the case that all the problems are suddenly melted away like snow. What the SGP Group therefore believes is necessary is patience on the one hand from the realization that a whole change has been made that just needs its time and that it has been a complicated change that has not yet landed everywhere. So on the one hand patience, but on the other hand action as well. If we are to see concrete bottlenecks now, we must also act on them. Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that I also think that the cabinet is doing a good job on this. Once again, I have included the Youth Care Action Programme. Then there are a lot of points I have heard in recent times and see in the reports, but which I also encounter during work visits and in conversations. They'll be invested in it. That gives us confidence that these problems will really be tackled. Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch on a number of specific points. That is, first and foremost, that transformation. The word has already fallen a few times. What we wanted was for the professionals to act less quickly and for us to use the network around the children themselves, the families, the social environment. Things are now happening in this area too. For example, I'm reading a new figure as your mentor. It fits in with that thinking. That is a wonderful new figure, but we have also talked a lot here in debates, for example, about the Own Force Central, another initiative. To what extent is the Minister aware of it? Are the municipalities also well aware of this, which is of course the most important thing for the practice of such important initiatives that can help to make that change, that transformation, real? Mr. Chairman. The second point. The personalised budget is an important element that helps to bring youth aid into line with the background and wishes of citizens. We have seen and heard several times that municipalities do not give sufficient evidence of these legal rights or even of the legal rules. What are the possibilities for improving this? I would also like to draw attention to identity-related institutions with a national function. Christian institutions such as Eleos and De Hoop ggz are concerned that their national function sometimes makes it very difficult to get into the current system and to keep that expertise intact. How does the Minister view this? I know that the subject of waiting lists has been mentioned in a previous debate, but since it is always so poignant, I would like to mention another example which I fear is more frequent. I am talking about situations where parents are extremely concerned about suicidal tendencies of a child, where there have been several attempts. Then you can't believe your ears when you hear that it takes endlessly for help to be available, even in those situations, and that you just run into waiting lists. Surely in those kind of life-threatening situations, it should be all hands on deck? With everything that has been discussed before about those waiting lists, I ask: is there now a view that really can be helped faster and better? Then the issue of foster care. Unfortunately, with the Youth Act too, the drop-out of foster parents and the movement of foster children remains very common. We appreciate the efforts being made, but should you not look more fundamental? I recently heard about an experience from England that adoption from foster care can also offer more stability in care situations that are long-term. Does the Minister see opportunities to explore this route for the Netherlands? Then there is a point that has also been mentioned by others. Who doesn't run into it regularly? I'm talking about the complaints about that mountain of administration. On several occasions, the signal has come from various quarters that we sometimes risk losing specialist expertise. People simply quit because they say: I find it difficult to work in this system anymore. Is this relevant when mapping expertise that should be available nationally? Finally, the new privacy rules also create some uncertainty for professionals. I saw that in the evaluation report, too. There was also a recommendation to get on with it. It is not always clear whether it is precisely because of the rules or the perception of them, but at least because of the way in which privacy rules are handled I let it be formulated like this make it difficult to work well with others. I was just looking for understandable Dutch for "domain crossing works," as I believe it is called in those conclusions. The point is that you can work well with other people who are also needed for a solution. If that point is taken up, I ask the Minister. I saw a recommendation on this in the evaluation. Those were a number of specific points on which I would like to hear the Minister's response tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u36	Thank you very much. Exactly within time. I call Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to consider the midterm review of the Youth Act tonight. My colleague Peters mentioned that today's most important debate. This afternoon we also discussed the problems of migration, and I can reassure him: an important problem as well. But this certainly deserves attention. An action plan has emerged: Take care of young people. This action plan is beautiful, but it does not, of course, bring about the necessary changes in reality. Much remains to be done, including the accessibility of youth assistance, the professionalism of the district teams and the cooperation with the general practitioners and the youth-ggz. Fortunately, many recommendations from the evaluation are reflected in these six lines of action. However, I still lack specific attention on two important issues: prevention and youth-ggz. I'll walk them off. Prevention and early warning are crucial in order to provide the right help in a timely manner and to prevent children from getting into trouble and ultimately requiring more expensive help. This requires closer cooperation and rapid action. Local teams have a directing role in this, but they still need to coordinate much better with general practitioners and youth health care, as well as with youth workers and schools, who have a better view of children and young people. However, we still see too many differences in quality when it comes to those local teams. Does the Minister see opportunities to come up with these basic criteria and, if so, what will these basic criteria look like? Can the Minister say something about this, in order to minimize the quality differences in the local municipalities? Then the position of the youth-ggz. D66 always calls attention to that and rightly so. There are also big discussions about this. My group sees that there is still much to improve, but wants to stick to the decentralisation and the integrated approach. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned the working group on youth care eight years ago, and I was able to do so myself. At that time, I saw broad support in the Chamber for this decentralisation, but that does not mean that the youth ggz is now going well. I understand there's been a special round table. What action does this take, I ask the Minister? Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point. In recent years, family homes have developed into a fully-fledged alternative to residential care. Currently there are about 900 family homes. I have also visited a number of them recently, and I am very impressed by the commitment and commitment of the parents to the children they have taken care of. There are still too many children in the institutions, because in the family homes they often work with one parent as full-time strength and a professional family parent. These are children with complex problems who cannot go to foster homes. In order to strengthen family homes more sustainably, it is necessary to identify and address the specific bottlenecks in, for example, the positioning of family home parents, the financing, administrative burden and grace care. In this way I get signals that family homes are still treated as large in-house institutions in terms of administration and accountability. And those parents really can't handle it. That's not supposed to happen, is it? My group therefore wants to see the bottlenecks for these family homes addressed and an action plan to address these bottlenecks. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. Then there is another point that Mr Van der Staaij also raised, the identity-related concern. According to the Youth Act, municipalities must take into account the attitudes, beliefs and cultural background of young people and their parents when providing care for young people. In practice, however, Christian ggz organisations such as De Hoop and Eleos run into problems because they work nationally and have a large spread in terms of clients. Contracts with youth care regions are not always possible because of the small volume and low turnover. Now there is the Rural Transition Package, the LTA, for the scarcer specialties. This could provide an opportunity to contract Christian ggz care, but the VNG stops the boat there. Hence my question to the Minister: does the Minister want to talk to the VNG to make sure that identity-related care, including Christian youth ggz, gets more focused on the retina and buys the municipalities more locally through the calls for tenders or through specific agreements to ensure that children and their parents always have access to that identity-related care? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, together with the then MP Loes Ypma of the Labour Party in the Old Hall, I was allowed the symposium How baby proof his relationships? organisation. We see in practice that the arrival of the first child can put pressure on the partner relationship in particular. It is therefore important for future parents to be properly prepared for this issue. Based on the symposium, the NJi then made a hand-out, written for the municipalities, about preventive parental support, relationship support. And it really comes down to good implementation of that, because it turned out that this hand-out was made, but that it was not widely brought to the attention of the municipalities. Hence my question to the Minister whether he is prepared to consult with the VNG on this hand-out with the aim of providing support within all municipalities in the area of outstanding parenthood. I'd like to hear his reaction. Mr President, the age limit. I agree with others who have also said that, as far as they are concerned, the age limit should be 21 for all youth aid. My group strongly supports this. The Minister indicated that he would come forward with his response at the end of this year. I think it would be good to look more broadly at the alignment between the Youth Act and the other laws within the social domain, think of the Wlz, the Wmo and the appropriate education Act. Indeed, in the evaluation, there was little focus on the boundaries and divisions between the laws, while not only 18-min/18-plus is a bottleneck, but also, for example, care for children with life-long disabilities who need long-term care and help. For them, the Youth Act is not enough. Is the Minister prepared to look at the alignment with other areas? Finally. Can the Minister tell us about the transitional arrangements for the residence principle? Mrs Westerveld also mentioned it. Amendment of the law will only take effect on 1 January 2020. How will this be arranged until then? We still get too many signals from municipalities that they don't come out of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u38	Thank you. Mrs Tielen has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u39	Mr. Chairman. "We've been taking care of our child for a while, but now we're so happy with the escorts that the district team offered us," said the mother of a boy with a serious behavioral disorder during a work visit. "There are fewer children in this region who need heavy help," said a counselor in a youth carePlus institution in North Holland three times last week. "This is mainly due to the Youth Act," he added. "The help for families is better and previously present and therefore young people are less likely to derail. I notice that contacts with other aid workers have improved," a family therapist called at a meeting in the Central Netherlands about the experiences with youth assistance. "It means that we can offer much more appropriate help to families in our municipality." Three positive experiences with the Youth Act from the first hand. These are people whose lives have really gotten better with this law. That is what all the parties in this Chamber ultimately want. But I'm not closing my eyes where any improvement is needed. I know that against each of these stories is a different story from a caregiver, a parent or another person who experiences how things are not as arranged as expected. The conclusion of the mid-term evaluation is crystal clear. More time is needed to achieve the objectives of the new law. The VVD, like everyone else in this Chamber, wants families, young people and parents to receive appropriate help in a timely manner and that caregivers can provide appropriate help without too much paperwork and nonsense, with quality, sustainable, close to care, with knowledge and expertise in local teams and with a good interaction between family, school, care and child. That takes customization, not long getting The Hague, quickly home. As far as the VVD is concerned, the glass is already half full. Over the next few years, peace and space will be needed in the system so that municipalities can direct themselves and deliver even better tailor-made solutions. To support this, the VVD has a number of questions and proposals that help the peace, space and direction continue. First of all... I think we all agree that administrative burdens need to be reduced, but it is always the question of which administration can be removed and how. We want municipalities and caregivers to be able to work with a limited number of standard models; not all reinvent the wheel. A year ago, according to the VNG, 80% of the municipalities worked consistently with the standard models. Does the Minister know what's going on? What can we learn from this for other administrative burdens, such as quality assessments? I know the Minister has a bill in the Chamber to make any rules. At what time does the Minister intend to bring it into force and at what point would the Minister like to lay down detailed rules? Second. One family, one plan, one coordinating aid worker is the starting point. But how does that work in practice? Is there really interdisciplinary cooperation? I don't think so. Parents often have to deal with too many professionals and officials who really want to think about solutions, but who are often caught by protocols. I was talking about it earlier in an interrupting debate with Mr. Peters. We believe that knowledge and skills are present and that professionals can make their own choices. The agreed punishment sessions should contribute to this. How's that going? The commitment given by the VVD to change the annual re-indication should also contribute to this. How's that going? In municipalities where there is budget and regulation space for innovations, families and aid workers are more satisfied. It appears to be helping innovation and research. The VVD wants research, knowledge development and knowledge sharing to be part of transformation and innovation. Can the Minister promise that knowledge development will be given a role in the allocation of the funds for transformation? We've already talked about the 18th year. The Minister seems to want to focus on extension after the 18th year of foster care, as well as on other forms of care. I have doubts about that. After all, a person's 18th birthday is usually no surprise. We would like to know from the Minister what steps he is going to take together with municipalities to start preparing properly for the 18th anniversary, so that no standard extension is needed. Municipalities can already offer customization if they need to. As far as we're concerned, it stays that way. Are there any obstacles? Finally, I mention the complaint procedures; Mr. Peters has already mentioned them. Aid workers sometimes have to deal with various complaints procedures at the same time. This causes a lot of stress and loss, not just for them, but for all involved. Is it possible to streamline those complaints procedures so that more space can be created there too? Mr. Chairman. We're not there yet, but we'll get there. The examples I mentioned at the beginning of my speech already show what we have achieved in recent years. That is why a great compliment is in order; a compliment to the powerful municipal authorities, to the caregivers involved, to the progressive care organisations and to all those people who work hard every day to ensure that the youth gets appropriate help and gets better. Compliments to them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u40	There's been an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u41	We hear Mrs Tielen mention a few success stories. It is of course very nice that she hears on work visits from people what they are all helped with and what goes well. But I can imagine that Mrs Tielen also hears from aldermen or from municipalities that they simply don't come out and that they just have big deficits in, among other things, youth care. I would like to ask Mrs Tielen what she is saying to these people. Then she says to the municipality: well, don't worry because there's enough budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u42	I say to those municipalities that it is their responsibility to budget well and to buy well. A number of municipal authorities, who actually shared this with me exactly the same way, have also taken up the idea a little bit: we do what we did, because we have always done it this way. After a year, year and a half, or two years, these municipalities will find out that it may not work that way. It's about taking direction and taking responsibility. Which young people do you have in your congregation, which help suits them and how do you buy that help well? Some of the responsibility lies with them. At the same time, I can also see that in some municipalities the budget for youth aid is really inadequate. Fortunately, there are a number of municipalities that can compensate because the Wmo often has money left over. I am not going to decide which euro they are going to spend on because I am also less able to judge it than they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u43	I think that last sentence is a very nice one, because indeed municipalities can judge that much better than we do. We have also given the municipalities with the decentralisations these tasks in order to properly assess this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u45	But I found that Mrs Tielen of the VVD was in the beginning a lot lacking municipalities by actually saying: well, you do get enough budget. Because we have decentralised ourselves and because municipalities can better assess this, we must also take municipalities seriously when they say that the budget is inadequate. I would like to ask Mrs Tielen whether she agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u46	In a generic sense, I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld. In this respect, I believe that the Minister has also taken good steps by working with the VNG to see how real problems can be solved. But at the same time I call on all those city council members and aldermen to see for themselves what is needed in their congregation. I have been a councilman myself, and I have dealt with youth myself, and I say quite honestly: it is indeed not easy. But in the end, as far as I'm concerned, it has to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mrs. Westerveld, again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u48	Suppose then it turns out that these municipal councils, as well as the aldermen they control, come to the conclusion that there is too little budget. Does Mrs Tielen also think that if this is noted, then perhaps we should recognise here at national level that some municipalities need to have an extra budget available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u49	I believe that the Minister has already defined that understanding in any case. At the same time, I don't think it's ever a one-dimensional issue. It's very nice to knock it down to: there's not enough money, so there's got to be more money. Unfortunately, or perhaps not unfortunately, the problem and the solutions usually have different dimensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u50	For the fourth time, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u51	One more question. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that it would be a good idea for an independent study to be carried out to see whether municipalities have sufficient budget, and how we can properly compensate national budgets if that is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u52	Mrs Westerveld now knows me as someone who loves research, and who is also quite independent and autonomous in life, but will I say yes? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u53	Thank you for your speech. Finally, from the Chamber, Mrs Agema, on behalf of the PVV Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the evaluation of the Youth Act. The main conclusion is that the goals have not yet been achieved and that is of course no surprise. For three years, everything's gone wrong. Many debates have been held on the lack of good care for children in trouble, on waiting lists for children in urgent need of help, on the lack of assistance for suicidal teenagers and, last but not least, on young people sentenced by the judge to follow therapy, but have to wait for appropriate help and therefore stay in a closed ward for too long. There was always the same conclusion: the obligation of municipalities to ensure timely accessibility and availability of appropriate assistance often does not appear to be achieved in practice. Especially the expensive, specialised youth aid is not sufficiently bought in. There is also a lack of expertise at the municipality in the district service. The Youth Act has its origins in the parliamentary working group which issued the opinion under Balkenende IV. Mr. Van der Staaij and Mr. Voordewind already talked about it. Under Balkenende I it remained, because there was insufficient confidence in the elaboration of the wish for a Youth Act. But under Balkenende II it was suddenly rammed through both Rooms. I remember very well that Mr Teven and Mr Van Rijn, the ministers who were then affected by the major legislative change, even continued when we received a progress report at some point on which a go or no-go had to be given. They even worked with traffic lights. 39 of the 40 traffic lights were on red and yet it was given go and the Youth Act came. In 2014 we had the legal treatment here and that has really become a record debate. It was always said that care would really come close. I thought that was strange at the time, because the municipalities also got their hands on the wallet and became thrifty municipalities. Despite the fact that the Central Planning Bureau initially said that the Youth Act would yield 120 million and the final cut-off was 450 million, the CPB said years later in Healthcare Choices in Map: it does not yield any money, no, it costs 12%. These are the deficits that eventually municipalities had to deal with for something that was put here in the Chamber as "transformation." We can conclude that the caterpillar has not become a butterfly. In the evaluation we read that there are three transformation targets linked to the Youth Act and that they have not been met. Let me start with the final point, more room for the professional. In the report we read: "It seems that the space that the Youth Act wants for professionals is hampered by the space that the Youth Act provides for the emergence of different ways of accountability and administration, resulting in line and recording pressure." This is no surprise either. We have known for so long that many healthcare providers are throwing in the towel because of the immense administrative madness of 380 municipalities and complex procurement procedures. This is contrary to the principle of the Youth Act that decentralisation would be accompanied by a reduction in the regulatory burden for citizens, businesses and professionals. Another objective is greater coherence in the supply of aid. The mantra of one family, one director, one plan we can dream, but in practice it turns out to be difficult, sometimes undesirable or even completely impossible to realize. Then the goal of less intensive care. The question is whether there has been a shift towards less intensive care. The question we are asking here is whether prevention and annoying interference do lead to less expensive specialist care. This is an assumption which was not based on anything and which has not come to fruition in practice either. The influx of specialist suppliers, especially above-regional ones, is decreasing. But if only this was proof that there is less need for successful prevention at the bottom of the youth aid chain. We know that's not the case. Municipalities simply do not buy enough specialised youth care. These are children who need very urgent care and support, for example victims of loverboys or children with suicidal problems. These are children with a very heavy demand for help, who do not represent much more for municipalities than a bag of money they do not want to spend. During the round table on the evaluation of the Youth Act, where a range of experts, parents and young people expressed their concerns, it became clear that three years after its introduction, it was no longer a question of children's diseases, but of structural problems. The Minister must agree with me. He has had many debates over the past eight months on the lack of care and the troubles of this Youth Act. He must recognize them and acknowledge them. Of course, it is good that there is another action plan and that this action plan is in line with the conclusions of the evaluation, but it is also easy. The proof of the pudding is in the eating, but this pudding has been around for quite a while. The question is, when is it gonna be okay? The Youth Care Action Plan includes a legislative proposal to reduce implementation costs through a provision in the law to force municipalities into regional cooperation. I think this is a good idea. I therefore hope that we will deal with that law quickly. I would also ask the Minister what his assessment is of the solution and implementation of his action plan. When should what be achieved? Are we here in two years, five years after the introduction of the law, to have the same debate, or have matters been resolved? And which of the points in the action plan must actually be achieved by the end of the Minister's term? Finally, the 200 million. It's a blow in the air. We asked about it in detail at the technical briefing yesterday. The officials were so loyal and loyal to the minister not to mention the real amount. But I do ask the Minister: what is the sum that the municipalities have mentioned as the deficit they experience? Not 200 The same applies to the three times 26 million. That too is not based on anything. Then what does the Minister base this on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u55	There is another interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u56	A very clear statement by Mrs Agema. I've heard a lot of problem analysis and I've heard a lot of historical context, but I'm a little behind on the question: what does the PVV want? I understand very well that Mrs Agema has questions about the budget, and I think the Minister can explain this very well, but I would like to ask Mrs Agema what solutions the PVV has, apart from the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u57	What we wanted at the time, but what did not get off the ground, is a trial period in a small region. Then we would have been able to extract the points of improvement that we now have in the action plan, so that we could have submitted the Youth Act at a later stage and it would have been better designed. But I also realize that this is actually the trial period we would have wanted before the national roll-out of the Youth Act. Look, if you break a vase and drive a bulldozer over it, you can ask me if I want to put it together, but I don't have a solution either. I see improvement points. I ask this Minister what improvements he wants to see achieved before the end of his term, but I am not going to propose that we turn things around. You can't. I mean, the vase was really smashed and pulverized by a bulldozer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u58	I'm really trying to understand. I understand that Mrs Agema would have preferred to have had a trial period in a particular municipality and that she is now saying that everything has actually been a trial period. I would ask Mrs Agema, and that is in line with Mr Van der Staaij's contribution to this Chamber, the following. Many things have already gone wrong in the youth aid system for decentralisation. The fact that we made this movement, of course, also arose from the fact that, for example, integrated aid was very often not provided. A child needed help somewhere, the province was involved, like the Empire and the health insurance company, all kinds of organizations, but no one had the lead. Of course, a lot of things have not improved, but there was also a clear reason why we were going to do it. If Mrs Agema, apart from what she would have wished otherwise in the past, now looks to the future, what does she want in the future, what is realistic, within the given frameworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u59	Again, we voted against the law at the time. I'm looking at this evaluation. I put it together, Mr. Raemakers, which conclusions are not drawn from those 633 pages about what goes wrong. I think it is wrong that that law was introduced at the time. But I told you, do I have to suggest that we turn things back? You can't do that, can you? You are asking me for a solution to a problem that I did not create, which I did not vote for and which I am not responsible for. But your party is. You see it a lot sunnier than I do. I ask the Minister what he wants to have achieved before the end of his term in response to all these conclusions, so that these problems can be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u60	Thank you for your speech. That's what we're... Ah, Mr Voordewind has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u61	I'm sure it's not an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u62	I don't know. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u63	I would like to continue with these questions. Where we came from was the county youth services, which burst out of its joints because of the waiting lists. I've been there in Balkenende IV. You've been there. We stood here almost every week with Minister Rouvoet to address him on the waiting lists. Would you like to go back to county youth care or national youth care? Then what's the alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u64	At least we had insight into waiting lists back then. We don't have that right now. Before Rouvoet, there was Secretary of State Ross-Van Dorp. We remember the Ross resources. There were waiting lists back then. It was a very concrete problem and there was an extra 100 million. There really was extra money available. This was the last time that there was any real extra money in this file to youth care. This is not the case at present. Since all resources are added to the general resources of the Community Fund, it is a great hope. We don't know how big the waiting lists are right now, so it's gotten worse. The situation today is worse when it comes to waiting lists, than under Balkenende IV and also under Balkenende III.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u65	We shouldn't look back too far, but then we had waiting lists all over the width. Now we see bottlenecks, especially in the youth ggz, where there are waiting lists. That's when we had debates here every week. Now the city has the direction. You say: yes, but what examples; maybe we should have done a pilot. We've discussed this extensively. We have looked at Denmark, where this decentralisation has long taken place. At that time we also knew that this decentralisation might raise more problems in the beginning, but in the end it also improved there. It's closer and more integral. The youth-ggz is also involved, who was outside the provincial youth care system. So it's gonna have to get better in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u66	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u67	I do not see any alternatives, nor do I hear any alternative from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u68	Mr Voordewind obviously has an insight into the actual waiting lists, because he says they are only available at the ggz. I'm telling him we actually don't have a clue. So that's a deterioration. When we had those insights under Balkenende III and Balkenende IV, we could adjust and extra money became available. Decentralisation in Denmark, when I say it out of my mind, was a decentralisation to regions. We have a decentralisation to municipalities and regions of at least 100,000 inhabitants. The situation in Denmark is quite different from that in the Netherlands. I was just showing it to Mr. Raemakers: if you put all the conclusions from those 633 pages together, you can see how many problems there are. Mr Voordewind's conclusion is that the situation is better now, but that conclusion is up to him. I can't take it. The situation is worse. We don't have enough insight. The specialized help for the children who have the worst, who are most in trouble, is the worst. It's the worst organized, worse than before. Prevention has not come off the ground either. It is not the case that more children are taken into account in the youth care chain. In fact, you have to come to the conclusion that things are worse now than they are for decentralisation. The Minister has made an action plan. We await with regret whether at the end of his period this list of conclusions has become smaller. I hope so. Once again, we voted against the Youth Act and are not jointly responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u69	Mr Voordewind, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u70	Then "and so," "and so" and "and so." What is the alternative of the PVV? I still can't hear a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u71	This is a very strange interruption, Mr. President. I said it in the direction of Mr Raemakers. I didn't smash the vase, and I didn't go over it with a bulldozer. But it's the Christian Union that cut over half a billion dollars, not the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u72	That concludes the Court's first term of office. The Minister has received a lot of questions, so he will want to prepare his answer. That is why I shall suspend the sitting until 9.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u73	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I would ask him to state what the structure of his speech is, so that the Members of Parliament know when they may be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to make a few general comments. Then I would like to respond to the issues that have been most discussed in the first period. This means that in the first block I will talk about the local teams and access to youth aid. Then I will talk in block 2 about the specialist youth aid, the youth ggz and the waiting lists. In block three, I will discuss closed youth aid and family-oriented care. Block 4 will be about 18-min and 18-plus. Block 5 will be about the budgets. Block 6 will deal with complaints. In addition, there is a sturdy set of questions that I couldn't easily classify, so that's what we make the block "varia." I deliberately do not talk about the 'other' block, because that might make the questions seem less important, and they are of course not. I thank the Chamber for the questions asked and for the passionate and passionate speeches on youth care. Since some of the spokesmen have been through decentralisation as MPs in 2015, it is interesting to hear how they look back on the step that was taken at that time. We have before us the evaluation of the Youth Act. In fact, it is an interim evaluation, an interim review, three years after the law was introduced. If we rewind the film a little bit further, we can see that committee on committee found in the period before 2015 that the situation was not sustainable. Different laws, different points of contact and different funding flows did not make it possible to organise integrated family-oriented care close to home. It is true, as Mrs Agema has outlined, that it has not been dared for quite a long time to take the step towards decentralisation, which several committees considered necessary. Eventually, that step was taken. I experienced it myself on the other hand, as an alderman. First in the run-up to it. In 2010, when I was just appointed alderman, I met with other colleagues in the country to prepare for decentralisation. The way in which youth care was organised at the time was not sustainable. We saw that decentralisation was about to happen, so we began to prepare ourselves and imagined what this decentralisation would look like. I remember that as time passed and we got closer to 2015, the hesitation of a number of colleagues increased. Apocalyptic images of what would happen if decentralisation continued were to happen. On the other hand, there was a camp with "believers" who could tell flowery about how beautiful the world would be if we moved on to decentralisation. Neither the apocalyptic images, nor the paradise images sketched at the time, have become true. The reality is that we have worked very hard to ensure that the transition from decentralisation is as successful as possible. That is indeed a great compliment to all those involved, I would like to say to Mrs Tielen, not only for municipalities, but certainly for all those institutions and especially those staff who have not only formed an image of what the new youth care should look like, but have also worked very hard on it. The evaluation shows that on the one hand it has brought a lot of beauty and on the other hand there are many reasons to say that there is still a lot of work to be done. That makes sense, too. The legal situation is substantially better than before 2015, but laws do not care; people do. Those people who work in youth care have undergone an enormous change. With such profound changes, it really takes a while before the intentions behind that system become reality and reality. And then I move on to the first block, namely access to youth care. I think it is important to take the district teams as an example of how this is both true. When you go to work and you ask an average district team to tell you how it's going, you often hear what should be done better. I think a lot of those things you get to hear are true. But if you ask: look back at where you worked in youth care for January 2015 and how you had to do your job, do you see improvement? Then they say: yes, of course, because then I often came to a family where we worked very closely together and now I can do much better about the help that is present in the family. Then I often had to wait weeks before I finally sat around the table with my colleagues, and now they are just my closest colleagues, whom I see every day. Where I was only working with my own discipline at the time, I can now organize my work across other disciplines, down to disciplines that I would otherwise never have seen or talked to. And all that on that one neighborhood team. At the same time, those same people in the district team also say that it's complicated when you're dealing with a youth ggz institution where there's still a waiting list. Those people also say that they actually want to have a discipline with that district team, because they think that it is doing even better. In short, you need to speak with two words, if you want to make up the state of play on the Youth Act. On the one hand, there has been a lot of hard work and a lot of beautiful things achieved, also for families. On the other hand, there is still an incredible amount of work to be done to deliver on that promise of the Youth Act. Then I'll rap into my first block. That's the block of the local teams and the access. Mr Raemakers asked a question about this: what are you going to do to strengthen the quality of the local teams? Do you also come up with national criteria for what that quality should be, what the composition of these district teams should be? I think it is a good thing to say that the municipalities are the first to be inclined to increase the effectiveness of social neighbourhood teams. As the municipalities themselves indicated in the letter to the Chamber for this debate: the development of these local teams is one of the biggest challenges for the municipalities. I've just outlined what that task might entail. VWS, together with VNG, the NJi and the Youth Support Team, that we are going to give an important task in implementing the program you are discussing here today, will work together to ensure that we have what you can expect from those local teams in every region. Why is that so important? If you look at the evaluation of the Youth Act, it says that the local teams are a nice form of renewal of youth care. But when you ask the second-line institutions, the specialized youth services, to look at this, they say: yes, but in municipalities that work in one region and where all neighbourhood teams are just a little different, it is very difficult for us to scale down specialist youth aid. Organisations of Safe Home, who pick up some of the notifications themselves but also leave some of the notifications to the local field, say: if we do not know exactly what expertise we can expect in a local team, it is very difficult for us to work. So you spend all the time with the discord between the local scale and the regional scale, the specialist youth aid that is organized regionally and the youth aid and the community teams that are organized locally and with the variety in it. We should be clear about this in one region, so that it is perfectly clear for all the second-line institutions what they can expect from the municipality in this region. The second point is that we want to describe a number of implementation variants with the VNG and with the Youth Support Team: what works? Shouldn't you want the youth ggz to be part of a district team everywhere? I believe that Mr Raemakers also said it; I do not know if he said it that way, but I think he meant it that way at least. I have chosen to do so as an alderman myself, because I did believe in it. I see a lot of aldermen in the country choosing to do so: making the basic ggz part of the district teams. I see a lot of variants. One variant is not necessarily the best while the other variant would not be good enough. It's not like that. Local choices are made, but it is good to describe a number of variants and to test in practice what one can learn from each other. That's how you get each other to learn. We are doing so and we are taking more measures to ensure that the quality of the district teams is strengthened. In this context, Mr Raemakers also referred to registration. Registration is indeed an important requirement: either BIG registered or SKJ registered. Along that line, of course, you will also work on the professionalisation of district teams. So I think that too can certainly help to promote quality. At first it is a local task, but also through the programme Care for Youth and the agreements we have made with the municipality, we can also help to strengthen that quality nationwide. In relation to this, Mr Hijink asked another question about the referral by general practitioners. He asks me to confirm that general practitioners can indeed refer a child autonomously. That's right. That's just the way it's written in the law. General practitioners can just refer. This includes the fact that it is interesting for some of the families and can have added value if they also look at the support of a family with an integrated view. Mr Raemakers also made that remark. This is not the case in all cases, because sometimes we really need to use a single specialist youth ggz. If you look at the added value of this youth care system compared to the previous one, you will see that a separate funding stream and a separate reference stream were set up in the previous system by type of youth care. An important disadvantage of this was that the integration of aid did not start. That's one. Another major disadvantage in the previous system was that a lot of children who actually needed it never got to the youth ggz at all. If you want to improve that accessibility, it helps to add that expertise to the district teams. That is what Mr Raemakers said. If you want to improve that accessibility, it will at least help to keep the route open via the GP. 'Cause it's supposed to be open. That's what the law says. Then you ask the aid worker in the second line to look at that family with an integral view and to seek cooperation with someone else if it is necessary to offer more than just the youth ggz. But those things can be both. This should be without prejudice to the possibility of referral which a general practitioner has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u75	The problem faced by municipalities is that they have very little grip and little insight into young people who are referred to the youth ggz via the general practitioner or a youth doctor. I can see that somewhere. They only get the invoice; that's what they tell us. That's pretty messed up. Then you have no idea what to expect. Especially in smaller municipalities where a few young people need heavy specialist ggz, this consumes a very large part of the total budget. So I do understand the need for a grip on that, but of course that is out of the question. I am also pleased that the Minister acknowledges this, but the question is: if we see, for example, the situation in Amsterdam, which I have appointed, that it is happening that municipalities try to increase the pressure on doctors to avoid referring too much or to do so only in consultation with municipalities, is the Minister prepared to address these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u76	I didn't know that about the Amsterdam situation you outlined, but you just said it a few times, so I googled it just as quickly. I understood from that that the initial plan to impose restrictions on this is not being pursued. So I understand that's just off the hook. Of course, this happens more often: if there is a plan that is either not in accordance with the law or simply is not very sensible, then there are people like you in those municipal councils. And they're certainly as critical of their alderman as you are of your minister. This is then the subject of a strong debate, and that is how it should be. In particular, you mention the financial background as a reason why municipalities would like to impose restrictions on this "hospital doctor's route'. I know them too, but I myself know more about the substantive hesitations they have. Look, at the moment when, after a request from a parent, a general practitioner makes the referral to specialist youth-ggz, who simply starts with that reference without also seeking the integrality of the support needed in a family and sometimes already present, one of these transformation goals, namely "one family, one plan," cannot be achieved. That's what the law says here. In fact, that's the motive of the law. So I think that balance is in the law. The GP route must remain open. This is an important low-threshold reference in the direction of specialist youth care. So, please, let us not dampen it, but let us then see if we can achieve that other goal of the law, namely to create integrated care: one family, one plan. And you can. You can do both. Now you ask, "But what if that doesn't happen? What if the general practitioner's route is dammed anyway, is the minister willing to speak to municipalities about it?" I don't think I should start calling all kinds of aldermen in the wild with every newspaper report. Then I wouldn't take city councils seriously, which I know are at least as critical as you and I. So here's what I have to do. If things are actually done in a municipality in a regulation by council majority that are really in breach of the law, then of course I have at my disposal all the instruments of intergovernmental control. But often it doesn't come to that and it's just part of the local debate on how these two goals can be served: keeping the family doctor's route open and finding the integrality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u77	Mr Hijink with a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u78	I don't have much trouble with that last one either. I also think that most professionals do that on their own: they not only look at what is going on with a child, but also find out what situation a child comes up with. But of course there are many examples of children who simply have a mental illness. Look, we're not going to run kids who break a leg or kids who have another medical need through a mill of all kinds of tests and tests to see what's going on at home, because they just need medical care. What I want to watch out for is that if there is simply a psychic condition that requires mental health care, aid workers, caregivers and doctors have to go through a complete mess before they can simply provide the medical care that is needed. The Minister simply has to guarantee that that is well arranged everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u79	I agree with that. If it really is a single psychiatric problem, then that's just the way. It doesn't really matter what reference there is, but a general practitioner's reference towards the child and youth psychiatry can be a very good route. If only that single disorder is at issue, then there is indeed not so much need to make a whole family plan or whatever. But you also know that this is not always the case. Especially in the system we came from, it was not more often than the case that this integrality was actually wanted. Sometimes it is not even the case that this single specialist assistance requires a more integrated approach to that child, but there is more in that family itself that requires support, especially in combination with the psychiatric disorder or condition that the child is suffering from. Then a family-oriented look, a broad view of support is necessary. How municipalities and second-line providers regulate that exactly is something I do not want to enter into. We're gonna make sure the law is enforced. That means that the family doctor's route should stay as well. That is a very good route to help. It means that we must encourage that, if necessary, this comprehensive approach to aid is sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u80	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u81	Yes and with an incredibly graceful bridge to the specialist youth aid, which is the second block. This concerns a number of elements that have been raised here: the availability of specialist youth assistance, the youth ggz and the waiting lists. Mrs Kuik sketched the picture that basic aid is still good, but that the more specialised it becomes, the more complicated it becomes. I can't agree with her on that. The accessibility of the second line is quite well organised in many regions and many providers. Where providers and municipalities are good on speaking terms, also about the content of what that care should be, there are actually very nice steps taken, also in a further integrality over domains, where in the past, it seemed, a concrete wall stood between. So I see nice steps there, too. At the same time, if you are a provider of highly specialized help and you are active in many municipalities, with this decentralisation you have often received an enormous amount of administrative work. Anything we can do to control that, we certainly have to want to do. What, I think, helps is that we have that nationwide transition arrangement for a number of institutions. In this context, we have also agreed which providers and which types of assistance are covered. We are going to look at this again with municipalities, but it will be about specialist, unique aid that is very rare and requires a lot of pre-investment in knowledge and money to get there. So we have to be very careful about that because we have so little of it and it is not just replaceable. In addition, a set of safety net agreements has been set up to prevent second-line providers, specialised youth care providers, from falling over and there would be continuity. Especially in that transition phase, a lot of agreements had to be made about it. We can do this slightly lighter, but administrative issues and finance must never affect the continuity of care. That is why it is the task of that youth support team that is now being formed and is starting work from January 1st, to support and advise in the procurement and continuity of specialist youth assistance. In anticipation of the actual up and running of that youth support team, we have asked the TAJ, the Transition Authority for Youth, to continue in adapted form until 1 January 2019. Until then, providers may submit applications for temporary liquidity support. In addition, there is the Care Landscape Support Team, which is actually meant to contribute to the proper redesign of that specialised youth assistance offer. We asked them to continue until January 1st. In the second half of this year, we want these two roles together to be part of the youth support team. What we need to develop in the second half of the year are safety net agreements in each region. If the continuity of an institution is compromised, then it is not so much about the institution as about its impact on the continuity of care for children as about one accountant municipality or one accountant region to act as director to make arrangements with that provider. We can see that happening here and there in the country, but I actually want to make that type of arrangement with each region in the second half of this year. Why are we doing that? I also want that second-line youth care... That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Kuik, because I know she will be watching the band again tonight. I would like to stress very consciously that the specialised youth aid is entirely part of the decentralised system. There's no doubt in my mind that that's the way to go. At the same time, especially in the transition phase, it is necessary to keep your finger on the wrist and prevent accidents from happening. Accidents occur because an institution has real continuity problems, through a contractual change or whatever. As an institution has a larger feeding area, it is more complicated for such an institution to maintain good contact with municipalities. This means that, indeed, we also have the role, from a national point of view, of ensuring that the safety net agreement is properly made in each region. Then there was Mr Raemakers and Mr Voordewind; they had a similar question on youth-ggz. Mr Raemakers says: I would have hoped and wish that in that thick book of 600 pages more detailed attention had been paid, separate attention, to the youth-ggz; I do not think that is enough, so could we not do that research a little more comprehensively? Of course, we cannot do a separate mid-term evaluation of the youth-ggz. We have also raised this question before. At that time, I said that the researchers said that they saw the problems that are going on in the broad sense and the bottlenecks that they are raising in the system, also in the youth-ggz. That is why we did not pay much particular attention to this. At that time, I agreed with you that we would do a separate round table for the youth ggz. That round table is organized. The main conclusions were that the youth ggz should be closer to the local teams, should cooperate more with them and should have a stronger consultative function; that more cooperation between the youth ggz and the other youth aid providers is needed, that more attention should be paid to the initial diagnosis so that the good help can be used at once if it can be lighter, that is nice, but if it has to be heavier, then it must be done at once and there must be more room for professionals and for transformation. You have received a letter from the children's psychiatry who also brings that type of conclusion. Well, I guess you wouldn't have asked the question if you'd been satisfied with that, so I'd be happy to get to work on your suggestion to see if we could call that organisation ZonMw. Then I would say: let us do it in a way that they map the bottlenecks more precisely, so as to complement the outcome of the round table, and that they also show where interesting developments are taking place in the country from which the rest of the country should learn. As a former schoolmaster, of course, I do not think that a look-away should be allowed, but when it comes to the renewal of youth care, I think that a look-away should be the right thing to do, I would almost say. So let us use the same research to identify the bottlenecks, but also show where developments have already taken place that the rest of the country should want to learn. I would like to make that commitment to you, if that is something you can get out of your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u82	Of course, I welcome this commitment, but I am trying to make it even more concrete. The Minister also concluded the budget deal with the municipalities earlier. We simply see that the sector, the youth-ggz, simply has a lot of questions. I am really pleased with the first step of this commitment by the Minister, that he is prepared, for example, to allow ZonMw to carry out more extensive research into this. But is the Minister prepared to ensure that the youth-ggz sector is included in this? Can he also promise that he will ask the sector for prior consultation, in fact a follow-up to that round table, and that he will also agree with them on the exact way in which we are going to conduct that investigation? And is he willing to take the position of the parents and the children with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u83	Yeah, I think that's totally fine. Let's do that. I think it would be very good to come up with a good, well-behaved research setup. I think that's very good. I shall now turn to Mr Van der Staaij's question. That question was also raised by Mr Voordewind. It's actually about securing the supply of identity-related care. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind point out that the national institutions are not easy to deal with in such a decentralised system. When it comes to a specialist offer, where as a municipality you simply can't go without and where you can only go to one provider, it's even easier. 'Cause you can't really get around it. But when it comes to an identity-related offer, it's more complicated. Municipalities have to provide personalised care. Identity is part of that. Municipalities should, to the extent reasonably possible, take into account personal characteristics and beliefs of children and families in the provision of assistance. That's what the Youth Act says. That does not mean that all Christian children should have Christian youth care. It's not like that. But it does mean that you have to take into account the choices that parents would like to make. That is actually the most important aspect of it. And that also means that many municipalities consciously take this into account by making it contractual. Other municipalities offer the possibility to send the invoice in a single placement and that is just outside a contract to arrange by making a separate appointment. Or the pgb, that's another possibility. And that happens, too. I wouldn't be in favour of making national purchasing agreements or anything like that. That does not seem to me to be a good idea, and it does not fit in with a decentralised system, especially since decentralisation offers a good opportunity to provide help locally, to provide help embedded in the local context, to connect formal and informal care or to connect support. So I would think that national agreements on this type of assistance from the institutions you mention, for example De Hoop and Eleos, are not appropriate. But I would like to talk to Eleos, De Hoop and a number of municipalities to see what kind of organization could be an appropriate construction and where the real concerns are. I am not aware of any signs of a lack of continuity, financial continuity or anything like that. I don't think that's the kind of thing that's going on. But I can imagine that they are asking themselves the question of how best to relate to municipalities. Of course, they are not alone in this, which, of course, have more large suppliers, especially nationally operating providers. I'll say one thing about that. The beauty of decentralisation, i.e. choosing the local context, means that the aid must also be in line with that local context. And that also means that national institutions are logically more difficult to do so. So it also requires an institution to move to that local field to keep that connection in a good way. Keep going on ahead of 2015, that's not possible. You can't afford that as a nationwide institution. So that love has to come from both sides. I would like to have that conversation with them and with the congregations to see if there are any concerns there and, while doing justice to the system as we have set it up, to see if there are any steps to be taken. I am happy to do so and will return to you at a further moment. A number of groups have spoken about waiting lists. Mrs Agema did, Mr Van der Staaij did, I believe, Mrs Westerveld did, and without a doubt I will forget a number of speakers who have done the same. We have, of course, talked about these waiting lists before. In fact, when I started, there were some seven motions in the transfer file that went on waiting lists in the youth care department. That's when I thought, "This place looks like Balkenende IV." But the world has changed, of course. I liked to hear Mr Voordewind tell us what it was like for 2015. We sometimes seem to forget the situation we come from. At that time it was indeed about the provincial youth care with hugely long Excel lists. I don't think anyone had any faith that those Excel lists have solved anything. In fact, they've worked very pervertically. It looked at the first day on which that aid was granted. The first day then managed to organize it quite quickly. Then sometimes it could take months before you had the second appointment. Between the first and the second appointment you had with the youth aid professional, you could sometimes sit for months. Very pervertic. So I think we really need to do something different and better. We have said before that these waiting lists have all kinds of causes. A waiting list at an individual institution is not necessarily a problem if there are other offers available in the region that are at least as good and could be chosen for. That actually has to do with good contract management in the region and transparency about where there is still room. Especially when general practitioners start referring, I say to Mr Hijink, it is nice if they know where you can go tomorrow and where you can go in three months' time. Good triage is very important. You ask ggz institutions to help children immediately, of course, as Mr Van der Staaij puts it. Those kids aren't supposed to be on a waiting list, they're just supposed to get help. For children who can, it is not a problem to wait two or three weeks. Trench standards have been agreed, and we must abide by them. I do believe that we would help ourselves if we embedded it in the region as much as possible. That is why we have made the following agreements, which are contained in this programme. The first agreement is that there must be final agreements in each region on how to deal with waiting lists and waiting times. We have also identified this as a condition to be eligible for this budget for transformation. I will come back to the budgets in detail later, but one of the budgets made available through this programme is the transformation budget. That's in the coalition agreement: three times 36 million, 108 million in total. One of the conditions for eligibility is to have a final agreement in each region on how to deal with waiting lists and waiting times. The second appointment is that it should be visible where there is room. The mere fact that one provider has a waiting list is actually not so bad, as long as that type of help is available. The agreement is therefore: to create a social map in each region, showing where to find the offer, to keep that map up to date and preferably as insightful as possible in each region. The third deal we made is that there's an expert team in every region to make sure that every child who needs care gets it. We have agreed that this year in each youth region is a regional expert team to ensure that every child receives appropriate youth assistance quickly, regardless of the complexity of the care question and the waiting list. I refer to Mr Van der Staaij's example: yes, I know such examples too. Parents can incredibly sit with their hands in their hair, but also the referee, who knows that help is needed, but also doesn't know how to arrange that spot because he also hears about waiting lists. Then there must be someone who simply has perseverance, can punch the fist on the table and can say: that help really has to be there tomorrow, at work! Aid may also be so complicated and complex that it is not actually available in the region. He'll have to see if there's a provider out there who could design that help. This also happens sometimes, especially in the case of high-complex care. What we've done with every region is make the agreement that that expert team will be there. That, too, is a necessary condition to be eligible for this budget for transformation. So both the agreements in each region and having an expert team is a prerequisite to qualify for that transformation budget. In reply to Mrs Westerveld, one of these days the VNG will publish on its website a nationwide coverage with the names and numbers of the expert teams, so that it is clear where they can be found. There must be agreements on perseverance in each region. Sometimes there is also a very long meeting about what would be best and who is really there. So there must be perseverance. Each region must have a learning table from which that type of casuism is learned. I have also always said: if you come across a case that you really have the idea that everything has been tried but that it hasn't been solved, and that it doesn't work, then I would very much like to invite you to email me that type of casuism as well. I actually give that address to everyone, not because I think I am of it to solve all individual cases, but because a system only works when it works for individual children in individual families. If everything in a region has been tried and the system in that region does not seem to work as it should and a case remains unsolved, then I would like to know that very much. We can learn from it where it doesn't work yet and what needs to be improved. But I also want that because we can help push through to make it work. So once again, also in your direction the invitation to when you encounter casuistics when they described Mr Van der Staaij and a number of others of you, where everything has been tried but it is not resolved, please forward it. I'd like to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u84	Are you moving to your third block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u85	Absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u86	Fine. I appreciate you trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u87	Thanks for the encouragement, but I still hear a "but" coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u88	...to give a full answer, but we still have five cubes to go. I hope that you will be able to give those answers and do it slightly more compactly per block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u89	Mr President, thank you for this encouragement. I'm gonna get on with the closed youth aid. A number of comments have been made on closed youth aid, including that there is an increase. That's true, but not so strong, by the way. It's about a slight growth of about 2%. On the other hand, the length of stay is shorter. We discussed this in greater detail a long time ago. I think we all agree on the direction, including as outlined in the programme. It says that we need to look at what is possible to go to family-oriented alternatives and family homes to create family-oriented care. I said this, also in the previous debate, that that is not easy. Especially for the target group of closed youth care family-oriented care realization requires very strong professionals with very sturdy shoulders. We know the pilots that have been done with that and therefore we know that it is really a huge job to get started with that high-complex target group. So we should not underestimate that. At the same time, we have to work on it. These plans can therefore be financed from the transformation budget. We're gonna work on it with them, too. Stop separating. Mrs Westerveld and Mr Hijink made a number of comments. That's what we're gonna do. Of course, I do this with the sector. There's broad support for doing that. I have asked Youth Care Netherlands to make a plan of action with zero measurement and realistic targets to work towards zero before 1 October. It is also intended that we should set up a closed youth care registration system in which separations and seclusions are reported, as is actually happening in a number of other healthcare sectors already. I believe that's what Mrs Westerveld asked for. I'd like to get back to that in the fall, I guess. Then I'll tell you what the plan looks like and at what rate that can be achieved. Then there is the family-oriented care that Mr Voordewind asked for. "As home as possible" is actually the line. If it is possible and children cannot stay in their own house, then it is the intention to make it look as at home as possible. The interesting thing is that family-oriented care also shows that decentralisation has had an effect in the form of innovation. That is the plea made by Mrs Tielen. In 2015, it was about 3,000 young people. More than 3,600 young people now receive care in a family-oriented facility, i.e. a family home, a care farm or a guest house. We can see that that way is being worked up. With the 'Health for Youth' programme, we will continue to do so, and we want to encourage this. We want to make an administrative agreement that in each region there will be a plan for a sufficient supply of these small-scale facilities. We want to make it clear which type of young people are suitable for family services, family homes. We're gonna do a lot of work on that. That is the question put by Mr Voordewind. I'm actually very much in agreement with that direction. I would also like to make a comment on the alternatives to closed youth care. Family homes require a lot of the people who do it. In doing so, we must ensure that we are able to guarantee quality. We do not do that by setting them the same bar as a youth care institution, but we do have a responsibility from the government and the supervisory side. It's about kids who don't live at home anymore, but with someone else. We need to keep an eye on quality. There are two challenges for the coming period: sufficient people who want to do so and sufficient quality assurance. Then I'm going back to my fourth block, Mr. Chairman. You can see that your encouragement has worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u90	Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u91	Already. If I'm going to faint again, you're going to have to urge me again. I come to the aid of vulnerable young people, above and below 18 years. A number of Members have asked questions about this. I think it is good to start by saying that I wholeheartedly agree with everyone who says that it is not the calendar that determines whether you are an adult. I don't know if you can turn back the time that far, but try as a thought experiment to find out how mature you were when you were about 18 years old. I see Mr Van der Staaij thinking very deeply. I believe that I and occasionally could use a support in the back, a pet over my sphere and also a kick in the ass. Really mature, I don't think I was 18. I don't think a lot of people are grown up when they're 18. The crazy thing is that we don't expect kids coming out of a safe, warm nest at all. Apparently, we expect young people who have had the most difficult youth to get into the world when they are 18 and can handle it all themselves. Of course, that's a weird thing. The 18th anniversary we have made in all laws and in all care actually far too absolute. That is why we, as a cabinet, have said: we must extend foster care anyway. Those kids are in a family, they feel at home, they're fine, and why would you want to break that? Let's continue that in a foster home. That is also the easiest variant of care to do that for. The family is there and usually young people want to stay there, so arrange it. The new standard should be 21, with the same possibility of extension to 23. That's not a law of Medes and Persians, because if it doesn't work, you shouldn't stay there. This is, of course, different for other forms of youth care. I refer to a residential form of youth care in which an authorization for removal is placed below which is due to expire on the 18th birthday. A lot of young people in such a setting will not ask if they can please stay there for a while. Often it is also about young people who have had their way out of their homes for almost 18 years and incredibly many youth care courses. They feel kind of "relieved" when they're 18 and they'd like to do something else. That is not always sensible; we discussed this last time, in response to questions from Mrs Westerveld. It often goes wrong. They want to be independent and that often goes wrong. So what we put in our program here is, one: that foster care goes to 21. And two, let's start working on a future plan early. Just start with that if there's any peace in the situation. Start with that when young people are about 16 years old, and then start thinking about how we're gonna do that transition to adulthood. If it's necessary to extend the child care system a little bit, we'll do it. If it is necessary to move with the 18th year of life to another form of assisted living, we do so. So there is more possible, and the sooner you start to think about it, the better you can apply that customization. 'Cause I think it's a form of customization. By the way, of course, everyone is making a plea for the extended youth care, and it is sometimes grumbling about why that does not go so well so often. Well, one of the results of decentralisation is that it occurred 21,000 times in 2015, 27,000 times in 2016 and 30,000 times in 2017. In short, there we see that municipalities use this customization and the possibilities for delivering customization to an increasing extent. That makes me say that foster care has to go to the new 21-year standard. For other forms of youth care, I just want to think about this very carefully. I also want to see the consequences well, in response to the opinion of the Health and Society Council. I will come back to that in the autumn. But that is without prejudice to the fact that making a future plan from the 16th year of life is a very good idea anyway, because so you can also think in peace about what plan is needed when that 18th birthday expires. What does the care look like? To be honest, I find the growth of extended youth aid in municipalities encouraging. Besides, we're gonna get to work on those mentors. I think that too is a wonderful, innovative example of how to ease that transition. I would like to say once again that in the autumn I will come back to the question of exactly how we are going to respond to that report from the Health and Society Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u92	I am very pleased that the Minister has also indicated what the figures for the past few years are. Well, we had a technical briefing here last Wednesday about the budgets. That is where we were told that the budget for 18-plus care is not included in the total budget, but that it remains separate. During that briefing, I also asked: how big is the budget? There was an answer: 300 million. I think that's pretty much it. Can the Minister explain how it is still possible that many municipalities that do not offer extended youth aid, but that there is so much budget for it and that that money is also earmarked? Where's all that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u93	Thank you for your interruption. This is a nice little bridge to the fifth block, about the budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u94	I think so, too. That fifth block is about budgets. Then let me start by saying: we don't go by money stream with the red pencil standing next to it to see where we see a plus and where a minus. The main concern is: do municipalities actually make sufficient use of their tailor-made opportunities to opt for an extension of youth care? I have just said: I see a significant increase in the use of an extension of youth care, i.e. an annual increase of almost 10,000 cases compared to 2015. I see municipalities making substantive choices. Maybe not good enough in all cases: true. But I do see them making the substantive move. I don't know if they're gonna spend exactly 300 million on that extended youth aid. But that's not how our funding works either. In our financing: no matter how the Municipal Fund is set up, the government has allowed municipalities as co-governments to do their job. In addition, I do not peat whether it is the case that all extended youth assistance routes, i.e. those 30,000 routes, add up to that 300 million. I don't keep track of it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mr Raemakers, this is your one-after-last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u96	I know, and I need her, because last Wednesday, something really different was told. It was said that custody and the 18-plus are separate from the total budget. Anyway, let's not have that technical discussion for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u97	Yeah, that's right. In the funding stream...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u98	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u99	I have another question. We can look at the budget, but we can also look at the legal technique. The Youth Act states that if you are not yet 23 years old and you have received youth aid in the last six months, you may be eligible for extended youth aid. The Minister quite rightly said that at some point when they are 18, some young people say: toodle dokie, I go my own way. If they are then found completely lost somewhere eight months later, they would like to receive youth aid again, because that was actually what they needed. The law says that they must have received youth aid in the last six months, so sorry for these young people coming back eight months later. Can the Minister indicate at what point he might want to amend the article of the law in the future and make it more flexible for the specific situation in which a young person makes an irresponsible choice, comes to his senses later and still wants to return to youth aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u100	In my introduction, I said: laws don't care, that's what people do. Behind the youth offices in the municipalities, people do not read the laws to young people. They're thinking along with the kids to be able to do something for them. In the case you describe it, there is no problem at all. If that young person needs a form of accompaniment, the municipality from the Wmo has the same task, namely to provide a form of accompaniment, if that is the most appropriate assistance route. When it comes to other kinds of guidance, municipalities also have this assignment from the Wmo. I don't see the biggest problem there. It's not like it's really cut with scissors. You could at most say that the ggz has to do with funding; the psychiatry of children and youth is a different branch of sport than the adult psychiatry. That is why my solution is not so much to seek out the precision in the legal texts or to do something else in them. In any case, that is the slowest way to achieve results, because then it takes two years for that to happen. We can start tomorrow to put something else in it. That "other," which I believe in, is that you start working on a future plan in time, when young people are 16 and are still just in a care path. The young person will have to think at that point about what it will look like for him later. We can see if we can ease that transition. Last time Mrs Westerveld mentioned the number of young people who were previously in youth care and who are now among the target groups of homeless people and homeless people. If you get there before and have that conversation at rest, I'm sure you can get that number down. I believe in that. That's a faster road. Mr. Chairman. Then the budgets in the social domain. You have asked a question about this a number of times before. This was a technical briefing yesterday and I sent a letter about it. I don't know if we can convince each other. I have heard some of you do the sighing not to go into technology, but that is quite difficult when it comes to something so technical, the question of how we deal with the budgets for the social domain. At its start, this cabinet chose to raise the Gemeentefonds. Two decisions were based on this. One is the step-on-step decision. The calculation basis on which the Gemeentefonds is calculated and on which the accres is calculated is widened with those domains which are also relevant for the care and municipal tasks: care and social security. These are two of the largest parts of the National Budget, which did not previously count, but they do now. Where these are going to increase very much, especially for the budgets in the care, this is also relevant for the municipality. This means that there is a significant increase in the Municipal Fund over the coming period. The second is that we have made a programmatic agreement with municipalities, which give substance to cooperation. There is not so much a pair of scissors for what it may cost. It is about giving substance to the cooperation that we are entering into in the coming period, from the administrative point of view that we have to stand shoulder to shoulder, especially in the social domain, but also in a number of other areas, in order to do it better for people than we do now. It's about care, among other things. In addition, an average resident of Oss really has no message of whether it is the government or the municipal government that has to be there for him. It's the government that has shoulder to shoulder to shoulder to do better. Similarly, in all the programmes we have discussed over the past period, you often see a "we." Sometimes I'm asked what "we" that is. Then I say: you may always address me, city councilmen will always address their alderman, but the "we" should be a government that does things for people that may also be expected from that government. This means administrative agreements on the social domain. In making these agreements, of course, we have talked about the experienced deficits. I do say "the experienced shortages." Not because I would like to trivialize the experience, because that experience is real for aldermen. But if you zoom in on that well, it is true that a municipality may have a shortage of youth care but at the same time has financial space on the Wmo, and there is of course nowhere in the law that you should not connect those two things together. In fact, decentralisation means respecting local autonomy in terms of making financial choices. If you give me too precise instructions in the direction of municipalities, I am always inclined to say: beware, that is what your colleagues in the municipal councils are doing. Take the budgets in the social domain, for example the budget that has been made available to municipalities for 18-plus. If the municipalities spend that for 18-min, I'm fine with it. If they spend the 18-min budget on 18-plus? I'm fine with it. Local choices should be made. A number of financial concerns were manifested. We agreed in the Inter-Governmental Programme to draw a line with the accres under this financial problem. Could we have made another choice? Yes, that is to say, not opt for such an access, but see if you can make a separate arrangement for each problem. You could have. In addition to the acres, which is the largest part of the population, we have said that there is a serious number of municipalities with deficits. There was a figure of 300 million in that discussion, I remember. We verified that well, but that really couldn't be substantiated. In the end, we ended up with a deficit regime of 200 million. The 200 million will be distributed over the coming period among those municipalities most affected by these deficits. An arrangement has been made by the VNG itself. This deficit regime will be implemented. So accres and the deficit regime and we still have the 108 million transformation budget. That is actually meant to stimulate all those movements that we have said are necessary for improving care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u101	My question is why this 200 million is a one-off; only in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u102	With twelve municipalities we really went down the deep and looked at what is going on. These deficits do not seem to be so easy and unambiguous. This has to do with choices that have been made: choices about the arrangement of the system, the arrangement of access, the type of care purchased. You see municipalities with a similar population that have made other choices and that do come true. So you can't say clearly: that's what it's about. Sometimes it has to do with the distribution model, sometimes it's an addition, but it's very difficult to analyze it clearly. That is why I do not think it is wise to say: you know what, we give a number of municipalities with a shortage of long-term extra financial space in addition to what other municipalities get for organizing the care and because of the choices they have made can stay within the budget. I did want to do it once, because otherwise the renewal can stick and it can stop the transformation. So I did want to do it once, but I am not going to make it a permanent provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u103	I understand from the Minister's words that he says: no, some municipalities are not short; it would be unfair to make a structural arrangement for municipalities that are short. Shouldn't we just look at the number of children behind it, for example whether it is higher specialist and therefore more expensive care? It seems to me a little bit like a blow in the air. The minister here says that 300 million was the amount that was given up. It's nice that he gives that amount and that it's not a multiple of 200 million. But if the only justification is to go for 200 million because otherwise it will be a structural situation of municipalities that actually have to change their policies, it seems to me to be a bit too much of a blow in the air. The Minister will make the amount available in 2018, but would he not be able to see in time whether this is necessary for 2019 instead of saying that he will leave it at that? I'm asking him to put another moment in, because there are kids behind that money eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u104	When you look at how the youth care funds are distributed at all, there are all kinds of predictors of youth care. It is a very elaborate distribution model that looks at the number of children in the municipality and, for example, at income. This model looks at all kinds of factors that could be called "foreseers" for the use of youth care. They determine how the distribution model works and unpacks. In recent years, where we still had an ingrowth path of the distribution model, that has been completed. Where we had a minus in the finances in recent years, the minus, so the cut that was booked, has been completed. In the meantime we see another plus in the Accres of the Gemeentefonds. The tightest period is over. I wanted to make this one-off arrangement for the moment, but I do not see how I should anticipate it in order to make it structural or to make it possible to regulate it once again. I believe that municipalities should be at the wheel and should look at how other municipalities have done so. I wanted to meet the municipalities that told us to experience shortages. These experienced deficits are real for aldermen and can stop the transformation that is needed. For example, if your use of heavy specialist youth aid is high, and you actually want to be there earlier, that you can prevent more things from happening and that you make that move to the front as it is called in horrible policy jargon, then you can't do it for nothing. You cannot close down the heavier youth care facilities and then build up a different type of youth care. You're gonna have to do that a little bit at the same time. Of course, that's what the transformation budget is meant for, but if you're dealing with deficits, that movement is difficult to deal with. I've tried to ease it, but that can't be a structural provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u105	Maybe we should go all the way back to the beginning. Does the Minister not agree with the SP that it may have been very naive to think that you can take youth care to the municipalities? The youth workers see much more and see families that we might not otherwise have seen. As a result, the demand for youth care has increased considerably. Perhaps even the demand for specialist youth care will increase in the early years. So it is not a matter of being able to cut half a billion dollars in a few years' time. Perhaps it is really about decades when the change can be seen from youth care close to home rather than specialist help. Isn't it very naive to think you're gonna take care of that in a couple of years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u106	I don't think anyone would have thought that you'd be able to arrange that whole transformation that they had in mind for a few years. Maybe a few thought that, but at least it was wrong because that transformation actually takes time. I would like to agree with Mr Hijink. At the same time, if you look at the financial side of the matter, the Iv3 figures are the best indication. There are a lot of things to note, but I know you've had a technical briefing by now, so you're in the middle of that technique. The Iv3 figures show a lot of things, so I do not take them as the truth in concrete, but they do show that there has been a considerable surplus in the social domain, namely over a billion in the first year and an even larger billion in the second year. We will have to wait for the 2017 Iv3 figures. I think the surplus in that year will be a little smaller, but if what Mr Hijink says is true, you should see those deficits from the first year on. However, that is not the case. We see that in the social domain as a whole, once again, we do not keep a red pencil to which the municipalities spend their money, but rather a surplus, is not a deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u107	That makes it impossible to have this discussion. We also know that far too low rates have been paid by many municipalities for domestic aid. It'll be a lot more complicated by then. However, I would like to go to another point, namely the extra money available in the Community fund. I am frustrated that in the end any minister can say: don't worry, it will be fine; a lot of money will be available. I have two examples. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs says in answer to questions about the WSW: nothing wrong, there will soon be a lot of money available in the Accres in the Municipal Fund and we can pay for it. Minister Slob, speaking about combating educational disadvantages, says: nothing is wrong, it will be fine, there is a lot of money in the Municipal Fund, so we can pay the municipalities. And this minister says, "It's okay, child care can pay them all." But with the accres mentioned, more things have to be paid. It's gonna take money for the Environment Act. The maintenance of buildings requires money. In short, there is a whole bunch of tasks coming to the municipalities, but we have no idea whether the costs involved can be paid out of the accres. Does the Minister agree with me that this way it is impossible for the Chamber to check whether the money is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u108	The latter I do not agree with Mr Hijink. Of the first, I would see the problem if we thought that the Community fund was made up of golden mountains with which we could do anything. However, I said earlier that this is a good deal for municipalities, a very good deal. It's the best deal the municipalities could make. Mr Hijink has just quoted me, but now I quote Mr Hijink. If you look at the combination of on the one hand the broadening of the base and on the other hand the new normalization system, i.e. the broadening of the board and also stairs up, stairs down, then there seems to be an enormous increase in the accres. Assuming that there is a part volume and another part is needed for wage and price adjustment, then the plus is really huge. You could say it's about a little bit of a 20%. I think the acres will increase this period by 18%. I don't know of a cabinet period where the accres have risen so much. We have made an agreement on this increase. That is the agreement contained in the coalition agreement: firstly, it would increase sharply and secondly, we would make substantive programmatic agreements on how we, as co-governments together, would increase shoulder to shoulder in a number of areas. One of these areas is the care, the social domain. We have agreed to this. These agreements recognise all the programmes we are making with each other. In addition, we have concluded a number of longer-term financial discussions and put a line on them. That is how we put it. Of course we have wondered whether we were not busy loading the basket. However, that is not the case; we have looked closely at it. That's how the VNG signed it. In other words, this is also included in the agreed text in the intergovernmental programme. So I understand Mr Hijink's concern. He must also be critical on this point, because it is double. But I think we have found the right balance. It's in those words, too. A good balance has been found; I refer to page 10 of the intergovernmental programme. The ambitions and resources are in balance. We have the confidence, say VNG and Empire, that together with the resources available we can achieve the necessary results on the nine societal challenges. That's what VNG and Empire have written together in that administrative program. So I understand Mr Hijink's concern, but I think we have dealt with it responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u109	This is your one-after-last interruption, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u110	Then the question is to what extent this has now been poured into concrete, when I look at that whole package of tasks and assignments that go to the municipalities, such as the Environment Act, the gas-freeing of residential areas, refugees, everything. We have no idea yet. For example, climate policy is covered, but we do not yet have a Climate Law. How are we gonna do that? Municipalities have no idea what the cost will be. Money must be released for the Wmo, whose own contribution scheme changes. An additional call for domestic aid is expected. In all this, it is impossible to predict what consequences that will have for the municipalities. My question is whether, if it turns out that there will be major deficits in the social domain, there will at least be room and opportunities for reopening these negotiations; that we will not let young people, but also not older people, suffer the consequences of this game when it comes to domestic aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u111	I want answers along a number of lines. I just read the agreement that ambitions and resources are in balance, as stated in the intergovernmental programme. That's one. Secondly, the elements in the social domain you mention, for example the new pay scale in household care or the subscription rate Wmo. These discussions have been concluded in the inter-administrative programme or in the administrative arrangements in parallel with it. On page 20, it is stated that the IBP has completed the discussion on the financial problems experienced by municipalities in the social domain and has been highlighted in the past. At the same time, the UNG has also said: when it comes to new tasks, Article 2 of the Financial Ratio Act applies, so you have a discussion about what that costs. For example, when I said that in foster care 21 became the new standard, that was not a conversation we had around the IBP and I couldn't get to the municipalities that they had accres, so just do it. Municipalities have rightly said, or they didn't even have to say, because we saw that ourselves: this is something new, so we need to add additional budget. So that's also in the spring note. Then there are some things that have not yet been clear about that. IBP, for example, the results of the climate agreement. We are all anxiously waiting for the results. This may well create new tasks for the municipalities. Part of that can be said to have been agreed that we are going to work on it, but it depends on what agreements that climate agreement brings forward and which part of it is for the municipality. Municipalities will not assume that they are sufficiently compensated for this, so municipalities will also follow us critically. That makes sense, too. When it comes to long-term financial discussions in the social domain, I dare say that we have discussed this very thoroughly and quite a long time. We made the agreement that we should put a line under that past. That's one. Two is that we have said: when it comes to new tasks, the UNG simply retains the right to invoke Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act: new tasks, new money. In addition, we have also said, and with that I also respond to this other concern, especially where the municipalities experience a volume development in youth care: let's keep our finger on the pulse and see how that volume develops. That's the deal we made. That does not affect the macro-budget or anything like that tomorrow, and it probably doesn't have to. But we do need to know, it shouldn't be a black box, not even for you, so that we can continue to have that conversation. We'll do that monitoring. Take the Wmo subscription rate. We'll deal with the law in detail here. There too I made that appointment, because the municipalities are worried about a huge sucking effect. A little suction is hopefully going to happen, because that means that people with a middle income pay significantly less for their Wmo, so the accumulation of care costs decreases. That's exactly the goal, so let it suck a little bit, that's what the municipalities get money for. But let us keep our finger on the pulse if there is not such a sucking effect that it is also difficult for municipalities to carry it. That agreement is also contained in the legislative proposal, so we will have the debate on whether that is enough and everything. We'll make that deal, too. One: the basic agreements are good, I'm really convinced of that. We have concluded the financial concerns of the past and all the discussions that date back to the previous cabinet. That's the way we agreed. For the really new tasks for the municipalities I don't see them so quickly in the social domain, but in other areas, however, Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act applies. Let us at least keep our finger on the pulse in those developments, so that we do not turn it into a black box but keep it negotiable. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u112	Thank you for explaining it twice. Now comes the last interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u113	I think this is the crux. What Mr Hijink wants to know is this. The accres is gonna grow. According to the Minister's words, the accres is going to grow seriously. Mr Hijink actually wants to know how much of that money is for youth and whether that is sufficient. Now the Minister also admits that we must keep our finger on the pulse: is it? Yesterday we had a technical briefing. That is where it is said, even if we look at the volume growth in the youth section; is the youth budget therefore macro sufficient? That is what we are going to investigate in the coming years and that the outcome will be in 2021. But that is, of course, at odds with the fact that the youth budget is already part of the accres. Yeah, we're holding the finger on the wrist. But my question to the Minister is, in fact, what if in 2021 it appears that the youth budget has increased significantly and is apparently not sufficiently high in terms of the accres now? So what are we gonna do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u114	That's not how an accres works. An accres is not a direct reflection of the reality you see, because that reality is far too varied and depends on the different choices made in a municipality. What is the effect of the accres, and why is it attractive for governments to make that choice, such an appointment? If the government spends more money, it does so during this period; it spends a lot more money, so much more that our finance minister occasionally looks into it, then municipalities have more room to carry out their tasks as co-government. That's the accres. That's the "stairs up, down stairs" system of the accres. The following has been added: in the past only RBG-eng, the narrow part of the national budget, has been taken into account, but now the expenditure framework for care and the social security expenditure framework is also included as the basis for the accres. In short: stairs up, stairs down and broadening the board. This leads to an increase in the accres. What we then have to do is follow how the volume development of youth goes. Now you see a rise. By the way, this increase is not very strong, but you can see an increase in the use of youth care. With Mr Hijink I say that this is not so bad at all. It's actually pretty, because that obviously means we'll get there a little bit sooner. That's great. If that increase were to continue enormously, it could eventually become tense. I'm not gonna say "what if" and all that, but that's why we say, let's keep the finger on the wrist. 'Cause you need to know that. 'Cause you need to be able to have that conversation and keep it going. But a one-to-one relationship is impossible to establish. If we see that the use of youth care is increasing, then there should not be an automatic increase in the Municipal Fund. Because in doing so, we say that municipalities are fully responsible for the choices they make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u115	Good. No, Mr. Raemakers, I'm sorry, you're out of interruptions. You have a second term. Mrs Westerveld also wants to interrupt, but first I would like to ask the Minister if he has finished the budget. He's already told me a lot about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u116	I've actually been done with that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u117	Yeah, that's what I thought. But still an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u118	And it's gonna go through with this. The minister has mentioned a few times about a black box. In the meantime it is starting to look a bit like a black box. I would therefore like to ask him a very specific question about the research he is going to carry out. It's in the letter he sent a few days ago. I hear Mr Raemakers saying that it is also about volume and the macro-budget. I can't hear the Minister say that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u119	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u120	So I'd like to ask the Minister what the investigation he's already announcing in the letter is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u121	The research is the last measure, because we have said: the accres, the deficits, the deficit fund and the transformation fund. And we also keep our finger on the pulse, and that is about volume development youth. You have to want to see how that volume develops. If that takes an exponential flight, then you have to have a conversation with each other: why is that and what are we supposed to do about it? But that has no macro-budgetary consequence. It can't be, because that's not how the Municipal Fund works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u122	And yet I do not understand very well how we can keep our finger on the pulse here if we do not have a view on the macro-budget and b or municipalities can do so. Because we can, of course, monitor the volume and then we know in a number of years to what extent that volume has increased, but in order to be able to check what it is about, should we, as a Chamber, be able to see a relationship between the macro budget and the volume?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u123	That is also possible, because in Iv3 you can always see exhaustion in the social domain. So that's possible, too. So there is still the possibility to put those two things next to each other. What I do not agree with is that if it rises very much, it must have a macro-budgetary consequence. No, there is no macro-budgetary consequence, but we must, of course, ensure that this monitoring enables a conversation. And not just a conversation between you and me, because of course the congregations wanted to. That agreement was thus also made in the intergovernmental programme: a conversation between the municipalities and the Empire about it. Because that's always the core. That is actually the first sentence I have said: are the municipalities allowed to do their job as co-governments? That's the point. So that's how you should be able to have the conversation. So, of course, we're going to see how the volume development is happening. We also know about the macro-budgetary exhaustion and so we can have that conversation with each other. I just do not set up a one-to-one relationship of 'if it rises, the macro-budget must also be adjusted'. Once again, municipalities have the space and the freedom to do what they consider most sensible within municipal finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u124	Good. I suggest you continue with the block of complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u125	A number of questions have been asked by Mrs Tielen and Mr Peters on the complaints system. I also recognise that complaint, particularly from the point of view of youth protection. That is where they have to deal with different complaints procedures. That sometimes feels like very busy for professionals in that domain. I understand why you're saying, "I'd like that to be simpler." I understand that very well. But, of course, I cannot just delete one of those complaints. Disciplinary law, for example, is really intended to monitor and assess the quality of the people who perform the work. That's one. Two. For example, the right to complain is intended to raise the issue of the treatment of bodies. What you also have, of course, is that you can complain to the municipality that made the decision about which type of youth care would be available. So you should be able to complain there too, because that is just in the General Administrative Law. You can't take that out for a while. Then we have the Ombudsman. It's not forbidden to make your point there. And then there's the inspection. There too, of course, it is not forbidden to say: I think it should be better. I would find it difficult to say in advance which of these agencies you should put out of business for a while. At the same time I understand that if you are a professional or an institution, especially in the field of youth protection or at Safe Home, for example, then you are very busy with arrangements. So I'd like to work on the challenge to see if we can do less, but I'll say that in a bit of uncertainty about where we're going to land.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u126	You are quite right to say that there are a lot of different ways of dealing with this, and others say ten things that people can complain about. Whether it's disciplinary or administrative or what you just said, it's all of its own good. I understand that, too. I can understand very well that the Minister says: I cannot simply delete the Ombudsman. But at the moment, people who work in youth protection, and who may have parents in a divorce as a client, make one statement about one child. And if those parents are not happy, or either parent is not happy, they can complain in all seven different ways at the same time or in succession. That could mean you've spent up to two years explaining yourself to all those seven agencies around one statement. I ask my question in concrete terms: if it is not possible for the Minister to say that he is going to delete a number of procedures, I understand that it is then possible to agree that it is only necessary for a youth worker to justify himself, as in other legal cases, to one body for one incident/fact, with the possibility of appeal of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u127	But let's just get back to the situation I just outlined. Suppose that one parent is unhappy with an act of a youth protector. Then it could be a complaint in the direction of that institution. You should be able to do that. Suppose, however, he thinks that the professional has gone so far as to allow disciplinary action to be taken. Yes, of course, that's what disciplinary law is for. I can't just turn that off. If the content of these acts is to say anything about a risk to the quality of the institution, then the inspection must be able to do so. Isn't it? In short, I understand what you're saying. Certainly from the point of view of the youth protector, I agree entirely with you, but I think we can have another debate on the legal protection of parents and then, I think, you will be able to argue a different position. If you say that it should be reduced, whatever Mrs Tielen says, and I recognise those observations from practice too, I will be happy to get to work on them. I just wanted to tell you that it's not that easy. But I hope you can do it with less. So let's at least make that effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u128	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u129	And I do that by going to the block of varia. The administrative burden is indeed considerable. Especially for the institutions working in the second line and dealing with a large number of municipalities, these administrative burdens are quite considerable. This means that the social domain, i.e. Wmo/youth support, is one of the elements of the Action Plan (Ont)Rule De Zorg. Furthermore, the social domain information program helps greatly to actually implement information standards. There are a number of implementation variants, for example for the process of contracting to control, appealing to municipalities that, in addition to regional agreements, also make their own accountability agreements, appealing to providers who do not have their ICT facilities in order, and further developing standards for message traffic. ISD really helped. That is why we are going to work with a successor. In addition, I have submitted a bill to the Chamber which makes the iSD standards mandatory for message traffic and also makes the national audit protocol mandatory. This, too, helps to reduce the administrative burden. Having those iSD standards, ahead of the law, is already a prerequisite for being eligible for the transformation budget. So we're gonna force it along that road, too. The adaptation of the residence principle also helps to reduce administrative burdens. In addition, we will have to sit down and organise scraping sessions at all locations, and that applies to all the institutions in the care................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It's really a matter of getting it or deleting it. That must be done in every institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u130	That all sounds like very good intentions. Then I always like to have it even more concrete. The minister says there's gonna be a sequel to iSD. What am I supposed to think about? What does that look like, and what is the time frame for that? The Minister also said that the institutions should do these scrapings themselves. I couldn't agree more. I suppose the Minister would also like to encourage this. So in what time can we see more about that? I would be sorry if we had the same conversation in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u131	We're not gonna do that. Unlike other sectors, this is a decentralised sector. This makes it more difficult to remove from national rules, because there are almost no rules of state. At the same time, I can make sure that process gets underway. That's what I'm gonna do. I am indeed going to make it possible for a successor to iSD, and it is going to focus, for example, on addressing municipalities that make new agreements in addition to their regional accountability agreements. It will also focus on providers who do not have their ICT in order. That's something you need to think about. So that means that in the region, in concrete terms, we are ensuring that the administrative burden is reduced. That, of course, ties in with the scraping sessions. Often, things you notice in the implementation practice at a location find their origin in an ICT system that is not in order or in a accountability agreement that is put as surplus on top of other accountability agreements. In short, these two things cannot be seen separately. The bill on administrative burden relief, which makes the iSD standards and the national audit protocol mandatory, happens to be something we can do nationally and which is also going to help. We are not going to wait for the introduction of the law, but we are connecting what we want to achieve with the law as a condition of obtaining the transformation budget. So I actually think it's a combination of pushing into the region, so that this scraping actually gets started, and meanwhile doing nationally what we can legally do, so just give the lighting that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u132	Sounds good, but I still don't really have a sense of a time horizon. I would actually like to call on the Minister to do something extra, because in part of this debate we are talking about additional registrations and additional things. I believe that we should agree here too, in this Chamber, that, if we want to keep that administrative burden small, we certainly should not come up with any additional things, however important I think it is to have an insight into, for example, sequestration measures and so on, because then I see all kinds of lists adding up. So, in addition to my question of a more concrete timeline, I call on the Minister not to keep stacking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u133	Before the date of entry, I look at the official's lodge, where the officials are looking in this direction, I see; bye-bye! I think the date of introduction of the bill on iSD standards is 1 January 2019. Yeah, there's nodding. For the legislative proposal on the residence principle, this is 1 January 2020. Yeah, they're nodding again. That all helps a lot. Once again, the date of application for the Transformation Fund, which is subject to all kinds of conditions, is already 1 October. In short, we are on top of it and we opt for the fastest possible timeline. I very much agree with you on your second question. A part of the rules that professionals run into and which you are right to hope against, you have invented yourself; that is even a large part of those rules. This also applies to ministers and State Secretary, because they can do some of it, but MPs usually do a little more. It would be very helpful if we were to curb ourselves in our information needs, which is also in my view usually virtually unlimited, and if we were to think three more times about every rule that we would like: do we want that rule if it means, for example, that someone is going to have to sit down instead of caring? So let's keep each other sharp. Where I am doing things that you suspect will only make implementation more bureaucratic, you may appeal to me, if we can make the reciprocal agreement that I should also do so in your direction if I feel that a brilliant proposal on your part would lead to more administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u134	Minister, may I ask how many points in the block of varia we have left to choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u135	Oh, there's still a lot of them, but I'm really going to give you the short version, because otherwise it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u136	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u137	The residence principle. How will discussions under the current residence principle be resolved more quickly? A new law is therefore being introduced, which amends the current procedure with the residence principle. Where the parent's address is now leading, the home address of children will soon be led. Even if a child goes to another institution and gets help there, the municipality of origin remains responsible for financing that aid, at least for a certain period of time. In addition, a Disputes Commission will be set up, which will have the task of resolving disputes currently affecting institutions. Mr Van der Staaij asked: do you think that the municipalities are sufficiently aware of something like family group plans or the Own Force Centrale, for example the possibilities of actually expressing their own strength? I am sure that municipalities are aware of the family group plan and of other possibilities of their own. At the same time I am always a bit hesitant to let go of that mantra of Eigen Kracht everywhere. Own Power is not a magic formula where people, if you shout at them very loudly, can suddenly do everything they have never been able to do in the past. So I think you should always be sober and realistic about that. A few years ago, mostly the family group plan and the Own Force Central were discussed. And what I do see is that in the present time a number of very new forms are emerging. You mentioned all that JIM, that mentor who just comes out of his own network. That is a wonderful example of a very effective youth care intervention that is actually super simple and very nicely connects the formal and informal. So there will also be new forms. So at that point, frankly, I'm not that gloomy. Foster care. Shouldn't we put in more adoption? See, those are really different instruments. Where in the past there has often been a very long hesitation in making a more temporary youth protection measure a permanent one, so to opt for custody, you can see that that choice is now being made a little faster. I think that helps and brings peace and clarity, not only for the foster parents but also for the children. For children, too, there must be clarity as to whether they can stay in a family. There is, of course, always the right of a child to stay in touch with biological parents under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. But keeping in touch is something else than looking again every year to see if the child can possibly return. So this steadyness, the predictability of the situation in which children are sitting, is very important, also for suture. The State Committee on Parenthood has proposed to do justice to this interest within adoption by introducing a simple adoption. In his letter of 22 March 2018, the Minister for Legal Protection informed your Chamber that he intends to map out whether there is a need for the introduction of a simple adoption among foster parents who care for a foster child for a long time. He is expected to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2019. I say this on behalf of Mr Dekker. What are we going to do to simplify the rules for pgb? We are currently conducting a policy review on what needs to be done with the pgb. We have of course had a huge hassle in the previous period, let me briefly summarize it with the pgb. The technical side of that seems to have come into a somewhat quieter sailing water. We are in the process of introducing the pgb 2.0 system that has been designed. The pilot started this week. But more importantly, these other policy issues are related to the pgb. How do we ensure that the pgb remains especially available for that group that needs it most? How can we reduce the administrative burden on pgb? How do we ensure, for example, that we work towards an integral pgb over the different laws? These are all more policy-related issues. We've actually put them together in a policy exploration we're doing. I think it might be possible to move that policy exploration towards the Chamber in October or November, to show on all these subjects what steps we are going to take in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u138	That's very good. But I was also concerned about the point that we are getting different signals that municipalities not only discourage the possibilities of the personal budget but sometimes almost really frustrate it. I was also concerned to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u139	What I do see while we are living on June 22nd is that we are blowing a bit hot and cold at the same time. On the one hand, we are concerned about the direction and representation and the incentive it can give to fraudulent action at the moment when someone who is not really able to manage the pgb gets a pgb and thus becomes very vulnerable to all kinds of improper use and abuse. For example, you can see that in the pgbs when living protected. On the other hand, we say that the pgb is legal, it is a form of provision and people are allowed to use it. If they want to choose, they must be able to use it. Those two moves we have to want to put next to each other. At decentralisation, pgbs were transferred to the municipalities. We have seen that municipalities were re-indication and that they were really shocked, that they were wondering how some people could ever get a pgb. That's not a good idea for anyone. That has really put people in a very vulnerable situation. That municipalities are critical, I understand, but we really need to get back to a uniform framework: what tasks and responsibilities should people be able to take on in order to qualify for a pgb? That should not be a question of discouraging or frustrating, but of looking very closely at who the pgb is a good and suitable instrument for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u140	I think Mr Van der Staaij is quite convinced. I see him nodding. Are you almost done with the varia now? Could you wrap that up in a few minutes? I think there is still a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u141	Yeah, I'm gonna do it all staccato. The questions about privacy. Van der Staaij asked for that. All departments, under the direction of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, are working together with those involved in the legislation on the exchange of data in the social domain, because there are many signals about uncertainties, about too wide data exchange on the one hand and lack of opportunities on the other. In the autumn, I will send a plan of action to the Chamber. Mrs Westeveld asked: is the Minister prepared to work with a single point of contact? The call for a one-stop shop comes all the time. Let me take a closer look at reality. One window is not really a good idea for anyone. It is a "one size fits none" solution; I am absolutely convinced of that. You cannot help parents of very vulnerable children in the same window as the target group of homeless people. That's just not gonna work, so one window, I'm not gonna do that. "No wrong by" I'll do it. No matter what door you bang, you always have to be helped. I am going to work on this in the context of the approach to customer support which I would like to send to the Chamber before the summer. We're gonna get to work on the foster parents' plan of action. I will inform you of this through the progress report. Mrs Agema asked: how can we, as a Chamber, keep a little grip on progress and how do we really know if things are really getting better? What I want to do with this programme is I'm going to do with more programs in that way. I want to send you a progress report twice a year, once in May, I think, and once in November. I like those months, then there's really something to tell. That in May I want to be accompanied by a monitor with as many of the outcome indicators as possible in it. In May and November, therefore, a progress report, accompanied by a monitor in May. Is there enough listening to the young people themselves? The answer is yes. I said the same thing this morning. Municipalities are increasingly working on this, also to involve young people in the design of municipal policies, including youth care policies. Do I intend to make arrangements with municipalities about this? Well, no, let's not pretend municipalities can't think of anything themselves. I think they could do very well on their own. Education support is a valid point. I have been reminded of this several times by Mr Voordewind. I would like to work on this hand-out, but I would really like to involve the issue of support for education as much as possible in the Prosperous Start programme. That is what I come up with just after the summer and it's actually about how we help parents with their education as early as possible as necessary. Actually, there should be an eye for which parents are vulnerable and really need help throughout the birth chain, the perinatal chain. How could we better organise that? 'Cause we actually see a lot. We're going to visit the house and the midwife sees a lot. But we do far too little with it in starting help. We really need to get to work on that and I will come back to you after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u142	The Minister is working on it in his own programme, but Separation without damage, Mr Rouvoet's report, also pays attention to this. Would the Minister also pay attention to this in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u143	Yeah, and I'm gonna put those two things together, too. Mr Dekker mainly takes on the implementation of the Separation Programme without harm, because it has a lot to do with the legal side of a divorce and the question of what to do in prevention to break the tournament model we have now set up. But I'm gonna go with the care and help side and especially with the preventive care side. I do that in the framework of the Prosperous Start programme. That will have an important overlap with the Divorcing approach without harm. I would like to come back to that after the summer and then be critical of whether it is good enough, because you have made this point a number of times, so I know it has your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u144	Minister, I'd like to interrupt you for a moment, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u145	I've got three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u146	Yeah, but you say "some things come for the summer." Summer's on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u147	Do you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u148	June 21st.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u149	But if my schedule's still full, and it's still standing, I don't think it's summer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u150	If you can do these three points very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u151	I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. Mr Peters' plea for family arrangements. I very much agree with the content of what he wants. I don't find what he's asking easy. I've been able to think about it for a while now, and I think it's possible to do something. A number of municipalities have already found rather creative solutions to cross the boundaries of funding, where it is not in the municipal domain but, for example, in the Health Insurance Act or the Wlz, to see if you could come up with a family-oriented arrangement. We're going to set up a youth support team and I would like to ask that team to come up with some kind of example arrangements with municipalities that are really ahead of us on how to do it. In this way I would like to deal with Mr Peters' question. Then I have heard Mrs Westerveld talk about children's rights in the Caribbean Netherlands. Very important! The Secretary of State of VWS is responsible for the Caribbean Netherlands and he is working on it. In April 2018, there was an international education conference in Curaçao. There a cooperation agreement has been made between the four countries and the three public bodies to improve cooperation on children's rights. VWS participates in the International Task Force on Children's Rights, also with UNICEF. Then we have Mr Peters' question about how to deal with families with only a mother whose children can no longer live at home because they are homeless. I hesitate to say that there could be a removal to the mere fact that the mother is homeless. If he has examples of this, I would like to see with Mr Peters whether I could zoom in on those examples to see what is going wrong now and how we could deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u152	Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that the examples, which are indeed there, will be picked up. I am also concerned that we all have a desire here to do something for mothers with children who are homeless. We know the solution, namely a home. We can start all this up, but we also know that these people are ground up by a bureaucracy of "get killed," they say to us. I brought it up this morning, and I'm bringing it up now. I thank you for the commitment, but I also say that I will bring it up every next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u153	I was a little afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u154	You were already afraid of that, but I am doing so because that target group is really not being helped sufficiently and cannot really be helped in the current ways of working. Thank you for the commitment, but that is why I am calling for specific attention to be given to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u155	If you want a really good solution, you should also really analyse where the problem is. Is it a housing problem or is it a problem of bringing together the care that exists in a good way? As far as I am concerned, we agree that you are coming up with the examples of where you think it really should have been different because it should never have been a home placement. If you do, I can see where else you could have done it. Because of the single problem that a mother has no roof over her head, children are not placed out of home. There must also be child factors which show that the safety of children is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u156	We'll pick up that glove together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u157	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u158	Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u159	I am already at the end of my reply, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u160	Very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u161	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u162	This brings us to the end of... Ah, another afterburner by Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u163	I have missed an answer to my question about knowledge development and knowledge sharing in the allocation of the transformation funds. I don't quite see if the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u164	Yes, I do. I just don't have the genius answer ready for a moment and I'm gonna try to reproduce it out of my head. We're going to do it in a number of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u165	Can you do it in the second term? Then you can think about it for a while and then it can be answered even more succinctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u166	Or a little longer, but I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u167	I see that Mrs Westerveld still has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u168	I do not think that a question has been fully answered, namely the question of the residence principle. The Minister told us that a new law will be passed in 2020. I'm aware of that. The only question is what we can do until then to ensure that the problems are resolved. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u169	I'd like it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u170	I replied to that. We are going to set up a Disputes Commission to settle the disputes, even though the law has not yet been changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u171	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of the first-term reply on the part of the cabinet. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. We can go right ahead with that. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions for resolutions because it is still not clear to me how we can properly check here that there is sufficient funding for youth care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet will examine the differences between municipal expenditures, their destination and distribution;]] [[noting that this study is not about whether there is sufficient budget;]] [[whereas the UNG indicates that there is a deficit of EUR 300 million;]] [[calls on the government also to examine whether municipalities receive sufficient funding from the Empire for the implementation of youth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet will examine the differences between municipal expenditures, their destination and distribution;]] [[Considering that the CBS figures show that 10% more children have been helped in youth assistance since 2015;]] [[noting that the increase in these volumes is not included in the determination of the budget;]] [[calls on the Government to include volume developments in youth care in the financial resources surveys,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34880-5]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34880-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u173	The Minister has made a number of commitments on a plan of action on freedom-limiting measures which I welcome. I'm glad we're registering that. I do have a comment about 18-min and 18-plus. I heard the minister say that many young people are happy when they pass the 18. That will be fine, but on my work visits I hear, and also from many people around me, that quite a few young people are keen to be 18 years old. I ask the Minister to put forward the plan of action that will come in the autumn early in the autumn. Sometimes it can be November or December. I ask him to send that to us as soon as possible after the summer. I also ask the Minister to deal with young people who are still not sufficiently involved in the policy, including in the municipalities. We also read in the evaluation that many young people also do not feel that they are being heard in the institutions. Many young people and older people are still not sufficiently aware of their rights. I would ask the Minister to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u174	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two short points. I am very pleased that tonight the Minister emphasised the important role of general practitioners, youth doctors and other specialists in youth care. They have the possibility to refer. I have another question about the situations in which a doctor refers, for example, to a national specialized institution with which the region or the municipality has no contract or for which no care has been purchased. Does that cause problems, or does that normally have to go well? I honestly don't know what that's about. I like to hear if there's trouble there. The motion that has just been tabled concerns deficits. The minister has so often used the term "black box" in his mouth that you could almost get the feeling that it is becoming a bit of a black box. Well, that's why we tabled a motion to investigate whether there are actual deficits. I would be very sorry if we were to have this discussion very often over the next few years as to whether there is a shortage or whether there is an experienced shortage. Because I think we should continue to realise that this debate is being held about the backs of young people who simply need care. I'd really like to keep an eye out for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u176	Thank you. Mr. Raemakers, do you need a second term? Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to file motions in the second term, and I'm not going to discuss how I feel about it as a D66 chamber member. But I'm gonna do something else. I'm going to pretend to be the rapporteur of a committee. I was the rapporteur of the VWS committee last Tuesday. Then I looked very closely at the results and the financial situation. Can the room hold a finger on the wrist? Last Tuesday, we were in the legislative consultation. Then Mrs. Pia Dijkstra was the chairman. There, too, the Minister talked very often about keeping the finger on the wrist. Then I thought: that could be because Pia Dijkstra is here and she is familiar with that program. But today the Minister also used that expression very often. The problem with the budget is that we do have a finger, but we don't actually have a pulse to keep it on. So we don't know where in the accres that youth aid budget starts and where it ends. And as Mr Hijink just said, there is in fact a kind of black box. The accres is currently a black box; we don't know where it starts and where it ends when it comes to youth. But in the future it will have to be enough to compensate for the increase in the volume of young people. As rapporteur, I would like to say that the House of Representatives will never be able to measure this. The Minister has also said many times: it is not a black box. A lesson in politics and in the media is: if you say enough that something is not, it is probably. So I actually have one very specific question. I also think it is too early for the motions put on the table by Mrs Westerveld. I believe that one question is unclear. How much of the accres is now destined for youth? If we can't answer that question, we can measure how the volume is going to grow or not to grow over the next few years, but then of course we don't know how to keep a finger on the wrist. So that is the fundamental question that I did not come up with in the debate and which we still have to get out of in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u178	This is exactly what D66 has wanted for years, isn't it? In 2014, D66 clearly opted for the decentralisation of youth funds that would eventually fall to the general funds in the Municipal Fund. So it became one big black box, D66 wanted it. We didn't want to, but D66 did. And it's a little late to come up with now that it's suddenly a problem, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u179	That's not right. Because of course we always had budgets for youth care, budgets for Wmo and budgets for the Participation Act. And it was very clear to the Chamber: so much goes to youth care. Mrs Agema has also mentioned how much savings have been made. D66 also said: well, there may have been too much savings. We've given municipalities the opportunity to deport. So if they're short on youth care, they can compensate for that with money from the Wmo, and vice versa. So now we are moving towards a situation where the accres will grow in the future. That is a very good thing, but of course the House of Representatives must be able to measure whether the volume growth of youth care is sufficiently compensated. That is where I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u180	No, because D66 has simply decided that the fence around the social domain "Let's call it "Just" at the end of 2018. As of 2019, it will simply become general resources. So we just don't know it anymore and all we have left is that step-on-step mechanism. It has really been D66's choice, particularly in amendments, motions or any other proposal, not to want a fence to the social domain, nor anymore in those areas within it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u181	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u182	So it's not about the youth aids either. How is it that D66 on the bar, now that it's all happened and we can't take it back, suddenly it's gonna find a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u183	Mrs Agema confuses the interruptions with what the calculations are based on. Budgetten, for example, are calculated on the volume growth in youth care. Then it can be said: we have volume growth in youth care and make extra budget available. It can then be ejected. That's really two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u184	Last time, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u185	Not by a long shot. At the end of the year, all the funds will be released in favour of the general funds in the Community Fund and we will not know anymore. That's what D66 wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u186	We don't agree. The question I have put to the Minister is how the Chamber can check in the coming years whether the youth care budget is adequate. On Wednesday, during the technical briefing, officials indicated that they will monitor this in the coming years and have a reply in 2021. What good is it to know if we already choose a certain amount of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u187	Mr Raemakers wants to know the percentage of the accres going to youth care. We have a motion here that also calls for a map of whether municipalities are getting enough funding for youth care. On that motion, Mr Raemakers says that it comes too soon. Why do you find this motion too early when you ask similar questions to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u188	I've interpreted the motion in such a way that it's about a new investigation. I understand from the Ministry that two things are being investigated at the moment. Research is being carried out on the deficits in the municipalities. Do the differences between the municipalities make sense? Research is also being carried out on the macro question. Do the budgets for youth care take or not? Both things will be investigated in the coming years. If we already know from the Ministry that both traces are being investigated, it does not make much sense for me to support a motion calling again for that. Both traces are being investigated and then the question is: what is the point? What can the Chamber do with that if we have the annual report in our hands next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u189	Mr Hijink, this too is the last interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u190	It's a bit of a weird move Mr. Raemakers is making right now. We've had that briefing this week. It is the choice of this cabinet to include social welfare benefits in the general benefit. That's just an appointment you made yourself, isn't it? A consequence of that arrangement is that you completely lose sight of what exactly is to be spent for which part. It will be followed first in the coming period, but in the longer term you will simply lose sight of the situation. That is a choice that is deliberately made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u191	This is a repeat of moves. This is the last point you have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u192	It remains the same, as I explained to Mrs Agema. I would also like to explain to Mr Hijink. Departure is something other than what you're basing the calculation on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u193	You don't agree on this point. I suggest you sit down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u194	I have one more second, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u195	You're welcome. Mr Peters also needs a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u196	There is a need, Mr President, which cannot be contained. I would like to thank Minister De Jonge for answering the questions and for the commitment we have received. If I have learned one thing, again today, it is that the transition has not caused too many accidents in the technical sense, as the evaluation of the Youth Act says, and that the transformation is extremely complicated. From the example of the combined family, which I mentioned in my introduction, it becomes clear that the desired family arrangement, while talking about four different laws, is not so easily regulated. Even though we have the transformation goal and say we're really moving on to one family, one plan, one director. Hence, despite the efforts of Minister De Jonge to convince me completely, this motion for a resolution is a family arrangement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that families with problems are sometimes helped with resources from several different laws;]] [[noting that each of these different budgets focuses on single problems of individual family members;]] [[noting that it is virtually impossible to agree on the joint financing of a comprehensive solution;]] [[invites the Government to examine together with the Association of Dutch Municipalities what workable and generally applicable models can be for a family arrangement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34880-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u197	Then less bureaucracy, less accountability; also such a goal of the transformation we have been talking about. Here, too, it shows how incredibly complicated it is, just looking at the accountability in Mrs Tielen's and me's example of youth protection and the seven different ways. That's all much more complicated than we would think one-two-three. It's not easy. Mrs Tielen will be tabling a motion on my behalf shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u198	Thank you. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our questions as well. I look forward to researching the volume of child care. It seems to me, as Mr Raemakers says, to keep the finger on the wrist as a Chamber. If the volumes are rising, we need to know if extra money is needed. Mr. Chairman. I also thank the Minister for his commitment to the Christian identity-related youth ggz and addiction care; De Hoop, Eleos. He has said that he will talk to these organizations and also to the municipalities to see if they can get more foothold in the door at the municipalities and they can continue the work as well. Then I have two more motions. One is about relationship support and parenting preparation. The NJi has made a nice hand delivery for the municipalities. We have also called a conference for this. Only, such a hand-out should not only be made, but also really be brought to the attention of the municipalities, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the arrival of a child changes the partner relationship between parents, which sometimes leads to tensions and relationship problems;]] [[Whereas the Separation without Damage Programme explicitly focuses on parenting assistance;]] [[Whereas the NJi has made a hand-out for municipalities to provide preventive relationship support;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the VNG on this hand-out, with the aim of providing support within all municipalities in the area of upcoming parenthood,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34880-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u200	Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. The Minister has already said some good things about the family homes. We have seen that the demand for family homes is actually increasing. But the supply is lagging behind and there are several bottlenecks at the start of family homes. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purpose of the cabinet is to ensure that more children grow up at home as much as possible;]] [[predominantly that family homes take care of children who are unable to live in a foster home and are therefore a full alternative to residential care;]] [[predominantly that family homes have to deal with specific bottlenecks in the field of positioning of family home parents, financing, accountability and retirement care;]] [[whereas there is an action plan for foster care, but not for family homes;]] [[calls on the government, together with the relevant field parties, to identify the bottlenecks facing family homes and to present an action plan to ensure that more children with serious complex problems can be accommodated in a family home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34880-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u201	It's kind of urgent, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u202	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u203	Two weeks ago, we also had a debate here. Then I tabled a motion which actually went to a similar point. That motion has also been passed. The question to Mr Voordewind is what this motion actually adds to the motion that has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u204	I understand that this was a motion in the context of closed youth care. This is not about closed youth care, but about family homes where children are housed in the best possible home situation, to which the government also calls in the government agreement. That's where the difference is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u205	Good. Thank you. I call Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that with words like "volume," "production" and that sort of thing I always have a bit of trouble. I hope we can get rid of that. I'm glad the Minister's gonna do some progress reports. I hope not to see too many check-off lists in that, but I would very much like to see how things are going to work in practice. I welcome the commitments made by the Minister. I have a question that I have just asked in a brief interruption. I hope the Minister can confirm to me that knowledge developments and knowledge sharing become an integral part of the transformation budgets. I think it is important not only to do this, but also to build up that knowledge. In addition to the complaints procedures. We have already had a short answer from the Minister. Perhaps not like the Minister, I do not believe that all these different procedures are less good for parents. In fact, I think it can be very pleasant for parents to be able to make their complaint a little easier. That is why Mr Peters and I have tabled a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care professionals are committed every day to providing appropriate and good care, but young people and their parents or carers may not be satisfied;]] [[noting that young people and their parents or carers are currently able to report this in different places;]] [[noting that care professionals may be involved in various procedures, which may overlap in part and which may subsequently be the subject of further appeal;]] [[noting that care professionals have to account for the same fact for a number of years after the event;]] [[noting that this takes a lot of stress, energy and especially time for healthcare professionals;]] [[considers that the lodging of a complaint and the lodging of an appeal should always be possible and should remain possible;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the various procedures relating to complaint mediation and/or dispute resolution are combined and streamlined in order to relieve the burden on the healthcare professional as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34880-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u208	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The youth care file is not the easiest file the minister has inherited from his predecessors. There are a lot of problems. The Minister has also sent an action programme to the Chamber, in which many objectives have been set. As an opposition party that originally voted against this law, I have no choice but to wish the Minister every success in his action programme. At the same time, I am stunned by all the coalition parties' motions and how little confidence they have in their own minister, even though they have all voted in favour of this law. I will provide all motions with voting advice. My party is always found strange, but fortunately next week I do not have to come to my group chairman with my pile of motions adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u210	Thank you, Mrs Agema. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister's requesting a five-minute suspension. Then he answers the final questions and gives his response to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u211	I will reopen the meeting for the second term of office. The VWS Minister will answer the questions and comments and give an opinion on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u212	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the motions in the order in which they were filed. I shall begin with the financial motions, the motion in part No. 5, tabled by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Hijink, and the motion on item No. 6, tabled by Mrs Westerveld. I will answer the question of the Raemakers immediately. In many variants that question has come my way. Actually, the room is looking for grip, for the ability to hold a finger on the wrist. I understand that, too. Mr Raemakers said: we do have a finger, but no pulse. I do not agree with him, because we do have that pulse. The Chamber can keep its finger on the wrist in a number of ways. Firstly, this can be done through volume development. That is not so much in the separate agreement I made with the VNG on this in an IBP. The volume development can simply be monitored through the CBS figures that I send to the Chamber every six months. Secondly, the Chamber can keep its finger on the pulse by following the budget in the social domain. Even after the transfer you can still see the exhaustion of the budget in the social domain through the Iv3 research that is presented every year in the autumn about the year before. In it one can see how the exhaustion is going. Thirdly, I have agreed a separate research assignment with the VNG. It's in the letter I sent to the Chamber. This study deals with the differences between the expenditure of the municipality, its destination and its distribution. That research is part of the research process into the social domain dividers, because the choices you would like to make based on that research are about working distribution models as you want them to work. It will be understood that, with the foregoing, I am referring to the motion in part No. 5 and the motion in part No. 6 detachment. These are not in line with the agreements made in the IBP. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 7, tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Voordewind. This motion calls on the government to examine, together with the VNG, what workable and generally applicable models for a family arrangement can be. I'd like to pick that up, not necessarily alone with the VNG. I would rather think that I should do this mainly with the Youth Support Team, with which we also talk to municipalities and regions. I'm gonna find a good shape to get to work on this. I shall come back to that in some progress reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u213	Then what is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u214	I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 7 to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 8 The government is invited to consult with VNG on the NJi's hand delivery, with the aim of providing support within all municipalities in the area of upcoming parenthood I will work on that hand delivery, perhaps in a different way than through consultation with the VNG, but in any case I will get to work on it. In addition, I will return to the Chamber with the program Kansrijke start. That program is about all the ways in which we want to support and guide parenthood and upcoming parenthood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u215	What is your verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u216	I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 8 to the Room. In the motion in part No. 9 the government is invited to make an inventory, together with the field parties involved, of the bottlenecks facing family homes and to present an action plan to ensure that more children with serious, complex problems can be accommodated in a family home. Mr Raemakers' motion two weeks ago was about alternatives to closed youth care, but this motion is more about forms of intensified foster care in a family home construction. I'd like to get started on that, if I can put the word "action plan" a little between quotes. I myself love plans, you know that, but we should not make an action plan for every little thing. I'm just gonna work on these bottlenecks, and I'm gonna let you know what I'm gonna do with them, and I'm gonna do it in the form of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u217	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u218	If I may explain the motion in this way, it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u219	It is ultimately a question of knowing that these bottlenecks are well known, that it is good to take stock of them and that they are being addressed. If that's what the Minister wants, that's fine. When does the Minister intend to report back to the Chamber on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u220	I want to keep up the rhythm of May-November, so I want to come up with a progress report in November. I think that I can report on how we are working on this. The Tielen/Peeters motion in part No. 10 calls on the Government to examine how the various procedures relating to complaint mediation and/or dispute resolution are to be combined and streamlined, with the aim of reducing the burden on the healthcare professional as much as possible. I have indicated to Mr Peeters and Mrs Tielen that this is not easy, because there are several procedures that have come there for a good reason. I do see the point you are making, and I am happy to deal with it for that reason. I leave the judgment to the Chamber here, too. Then I have a single question from the second term to answer. Mrs Westerveld asked about 18-min and 18-plus and the opinion of the Health and Society Council. I think it's gonna be in the fall. You are absolutely right that the autumn lasts from summer to Christmas, but let me insist that I will come with it about November. If it works out in October, I'm not going to wait on purpose because it won't be November yet, I'll let you get on with it. As regards involving young people, I have just said that municipalities can also consider that this is a sensible idea. Luckily, locals think of that a lot. We don't have to chew everything. Mr. Hijink asked what it was like when a doctor referred to an institution in second-line care with which you have no contractual agreement as a municipality of origin. In practice, it does happen. That institution then sends an invoice, says that this young person from the municipality has seen and helped and asks if they want to pay the invoice. Municipalities also pay that, but they do check that; not always, when it comes to a few, it is not the case, but if each time it is the same general practitioner who sends it to the one institution with which there is no contract, then a phone call goes to the general practitioner about what was bought in to beautiful ones and whether it would not be wise to refer it to them. When it comes to an institution that's known to be waiting lists, you should talk to that GP, see what you're doing about it. A general practitioner who is well connected to all developments in the social domain is always better than not. In that case, a GP will probably also refer to an institution that has been contracted. In practice, this does not necessarily create problems. Mrs Tielen asked whether the Minister could guarantee that knowledge development would be given a place in the allocation of the funds for transformation. The answer to that is yes. It is certainly wise for municipalities to use the current state of knowledge in the application. We're gonna use the support team to get municipalities to learn from each other. In addition, a knowledge development programme via ZonMw will be launched in January, so we will start working on this. (NL) Mr President, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-13.u222	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
