ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the Tax Plan package 2019 and the Implementation Act of the First EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive. Welcome to the Secretary of State. I have just had you all here for a moment, and I would like to repeat what we have agreed: we are focusing on ten questions per spokesperson. Let's focus on that. So it is a declaration of intent from all of us. You have also signed up for a lot of minutes of speaking time, but I understand that you may not be using them all. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u2	I am now the first to give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u3	The PVV is done: done with the tricks of this cabinet and with the nonsense propaganda about a reduction in charges. There is no relief at all. Last week, the Secretary of State finally had to admit this. There were numbers from the Central Planning Office. Rutte III has been running and diving for months, but there is no denying it anymore: the citizens of the Netherlands are going into the red for 800 million euros, despite a well-running economy and despite a billions surplus. Mr. Chairman. So in 2019 there will be a burden increase for the citizens of EUR 0.8 billion. I will just say it again. And the PVV has denounced this from the start. Both during the General Political Reviews and during the General Financial Reviews, the PVV has shown with hard figures that there is a huge difference between The Hague theory and reality. And over and over again that was denied: one kept turning. By the way, with the support of the media, who continued to spread Rutte III's lies. Speaking of fake news. And it seems as if the support of the media is encouraging this coalition to make more and more extreme statements; now on burden relief, but rather on purchasing power development. Because think about it, Mr. Hoekstra promised a 0.6% increase in purchasing power for 2018. Halfway through this year 2018 this already turned out to be down by 30%. And on 15 October last, Minister Koolmees even said that some mistakes had been made. And for 2017, the numbers were first: 1% more purchasing power, and 90% of the Dutch would improve. That was, of course, total nonsense, because in reality it was only 0.3%. And contrary to what was claimed, 50% of the Dutch lost their purchasing power. Mr. Chairman. So the story that everybody's getting better isn't true. It doesn't make any sense. And this cabinet, of course, knew that. Why is this even allowed to happen? Why is the government allowed to present false figures all the time? And why isn't anyone ashamed of that? And we tell our kids not to lie. Mr. Chairman. The 2019 Tax Plan that we are allowed to discuss here today concerns a total of eight legislative proposals with more than 60 measures. That has taken this committee two long days and many hundreds of pages of text. And even though we are going to debate it in plenary for two days, one thing is for sure: the ordinary citizen, the ordinary Dutchman, is not getting any better. For decades, the common man has been screwed. The CPB estimated that the economy has grown by 15% over the last 15 years. Business profits also doubled, but real disposable income barely increased - only by 2%. Through the Tax Plan, you could stop this trend, and even reverse it. And through the Tax Plan, you could reward the Dutch for all those years they've had to pay for the EU and banking crises. And through the Tax Plan, you could start with a fair distribution of the money. Through the Tax Plan you could arrange for money to go to the citizen instead of to the multinationals. But none of this at all; a missed opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Rutte III makes a lot of noise around the so-called social flat tax. This doesn't make any sense either. It's bullshit. There is nothing flat about this new system and it is certainly not social. It is not flat because there are still effective multiple disks and it is not social because the common man does not progress. I am referring, of course, to the Wopke scale, which is the instrument of measurement for unfair income distribution. Because according to the Nibud, a family with two children whose partners both work and earn €30,000 together is going backwards for €8 per month. But if a family with two kids earns around two tons, they advance €128; a difference of over €1,600 per year to the disadvantage of the common Dutchman. The scale of Wopke turns red and the common Dutchman gets little to nothing. But the charges are going up. There is a VAT increase on groceries, on the bike maker, the hairdresser. Energy costs are exploding. The care premium is going up again. Insurance keeps rising. Telephoneing and internet are becoming more expensive, petrol almost priceless, rents go up, pensions are not indexed. The bpm. You're not making it up. You're going up again. Excise duties, tobacco, the waterboard, the WWZ; it's all going up. It's unbelievable. But billions abroad, for Brussels and for Africa. It is intensely unfair and for the ordinary Dutchman the crisis is far from over. And that is reflected in yesterday's latest statistics from the Central Bureau of Statistics. Poverty in the Netherlands continues to increase. In 2016 it was 572,000 households, but in 2017 it was 595,000 households. Almost 600,000 out of 7.3 million households are poor. That's 8.2%. 8.2% in the Netherlands. There are more and more people who work but cannot survive, because almost 5% of the workers today belong to what is called the working poor. And, again, give many billions to Africa. Like I said, this Tax Plan is a missed opportunity. Charges are rising and, above all, the cost of climate bullshit is rising rapidly. I contacted the Secretary of State last week. He really needs to stop confusing the concepts of environment and climate. Those two are just as different as EU and Europe. People are willing to pay for a cleaner environment, but they quite rightly refuse to pay for very controversial and questionable climate goals. Making the common man pay for the hobbies of the elite is getting more and more wringing. This Secretary of State plays Robin Hood, but then the completely wrong reverse version. He takes from the poor and gives to the rich. Because that is actually what happens when you look at the effects of solar panels and Tesla: the money flows from poor to rich. And then we'll get the priceless heat pumps, a flight tax and the madness around the gas. All these measures around the gas make a normal energy bill a vulgar tax bill. But the top of the wrong green policy is, of course, the tax promotion of electric driving. Haven't we learned anything from the debacle with the hybrid cars? 6 billion was then wasted, thrown away, and the only effect was that the bad guy felt a little better. 6 billion, zero result. Even the predecessor of this Secretary of State, now Minister, had to admit this. And then we'd do the same thing again? Actually, this shouldn't be discussed. The PVV does not want priceless, unfair, elitist, non-contributory, anti-social, snobish subsidy scheme for electric driving. Mr President, did I mention that I was against the Tesla grant? Already in 2016, the PVV warned about the absurd tax advantages of these electric cars when handling the 2017 Tax Plan. Last week the Secretary of State had to admit that this method of subsidising is not sustainable. I repeat, not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u4	Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u5	I find these subsidies bizarre, too. Now we're working on laws. There's eight of them in total. We're all trying to change laws. I ask the PVV: where is your proposal to get this out of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u6	We have the second term tomorrow. The PVV will file three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u7	But you don't get it out of the law until you say: I, Mr. Edgar Mulder, submit an amendment; it doesn't go in. Then the majority of the Chamber can support you. But a motion isn't gonna get it out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u8	It's not like I, Edgar Mulder, would. The PVV would. But apart from that, I would like to point out that we tabled a legislative proposal a few months ago. And that was said here in the Chamber, without even reading a letter, that we were not going to deal with it. So if you know an amendment with which we can do something together, I would be happy to hear it. But until then, we're filing motions. We hope you'll support them. For example, we have a motion to reverse the VAT increase. We'd like you to support us very much. Then we'll get it done that way, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u9	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u10	We said it's not sustainable. Please leave it. So don't get that far. It's just like the previous scheme. The previous scheme cost us EUR 6 billion. That's ridiculous, isn't it? We sometimes discuss a few hundred million here. But last time, EUR 6 billion was thrown away. And the gentleman who was responsible for that said quite simply: sorry, it had zero effect, but we're going to try again, and then not with hybrid but with electric cars. Let's stop that. To be specific, last week the Secretary of State informed us that, if we treated cars equally and would no longer subsidise the Teslas of this world, the vehicle tax could be reduced by 6.2% by 2019. In view of the statements made by this Secretary of State, it seems to me to be common sense to stop this subsidy. Mr. Chairman. So there is no money for the ordinary Dutchman, but there is money for subsidies for climate bullshit. There is also money for the business community, bake with money even, through the reduction of the tax on profits. That's something to think about, isn't it? So corporate profits have doubled in recent years; everyone agrees on that. The money bounces against the boardroom plinths finished with Chinese hardwood. And what does this coalition do? She's cutting taxes. That is completely unnecessary. I know: politics is making choices. So this coalition clearly chooses multinationals and Africa, and the common man can get hiccups. Let's talk about this horrible expat subsidy, which is the 30% scheme. It is really incomprehensible that this multinational subsidy still exists. This coalition is now even paying extra money for this discriminatory arrangement. Why does the coalition always want to help foreigners? Why not the Dutchman? If in a street the Jansen family lives next door to the Mbeki family and they do the same kind of work, the Mbeki family gets a lot more net. That's impossible, isn't it? Hundreds of millions of Dutch taxpayers' money to pamper foreigners. How wrong do you want it to be? Mr. Chairman. In 2016, for example, there were 225 foreigners who earned an average of almost 2.5 million per year, per person. Through the expat scheme they were allowed to put more than €370,000 per person extra, additional, in their pockets. The winner of the year, of course, became the boss of NXP, who could add 45 million extra to his bank account thanks to this grant. 45 million Dutch taxpayers' money for a multimillionaire! I also have some good news for the SP, because we will be tabling a motion tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. The Tax Plan also proposes to accelerate the reduction of tax deductibility of donations to charities by 2020. However, it seems to the PVV much more important to make tax support for Islam impossible. Islam and public utility don't go together. The Freedom Party has been warning about this for more than ten years now. Islam stands for violence, hatred against Jews, and repression of non-Muslims. It is therefore more than scandalous that Islamic institutions can have an anbi-status. Yeah, the PVV wants to shut down all mosques. At least until they are closed, we do not want Islam to be financed through tax regulations. No support for organizations that want to destroy the free West and put their own delusions above the Dutch laws. I say to the SP that the PVV will also table a motion on this point. Let me turn to the ATAD, the first European directive against tax avoidance. As you know, the PVV does not support legislation from Brussels. Everything that makes the EU stronger weakens the Netherlands. The proposal before us certainly makes sense: multinationals that do not pay fair shares must be dealt with, and hard. If the ordinary citizen has to pay taxes, then certainly the big companies. But fiscal sovereignty is a great asset. Tax legislation is reserved for the Member States themselves. That was also the agreement: Brussels would not interfere with fiscal sovereignty. But it goes from bad to worse. We are increasingly seeing the long arm of Brussels, also in this Tax Plan, from adapting the tax unit to adjusting the tax on profits for the port of Rotterdam to the pension funds that suddenly have to pay VAT to determine the tax on benefits from winners of a few tens in the lotto and toto. Mr. Chairman. If Brussels succeeds in getting its greedy reins really to the Dutch tax buttons, then this has very serious consequences: away tax sovereignty, away freedom, away prosperity. The PVV will do everything possible to prevent this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u11	Thank you. I call Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u12	Mr. Chairman. Good care, good accessibility, our safety, good education, we all think it's important. The investments we make in our security, infrastructure and care must be paid for. So are the people who do the work: the teacher, the police officer and the staff in the care. To make these investments, we all pay taxes, the people and the companies. In front of us is the 2019 Tax Plan, a series of proposals that regulate the intentions of this cabinet. The Netherlands is doing well. After a number of years of financial headwind, the Netherlands stands better. Good. 'Cause over the last few years, we've all had to put on the belt. That is why it is so important that this cabinet can focus on reducing taxes, for people and entrepreneurs. For they, not us, have fought in recent years to ensure that the Netherlands is doing better. This is not the first debate we have had on cabinet plans. Last week we discussed the proposals before us for two days and I would like to go over the main points again. The economy is in full swing. More people find jobs and public finances are in order. The approach taken in recent years has made us look good. This cabinet is working on the tax cuts. We see a number of important proposals for this in the income tax and the reduction of the Vpb. One of the most important measures taken by this cabinet, which affects people in a positive sense, is the introduction of the two-wheel system into income tax. With this new system, the majority of people are covered by the basic rate of 37,05% and for the first time, the higher rate or the top rate of income tax is below 50%. In addition to a reduction in the tax, it is also a simplification of the tax system, which is highly necessary. I have raised it before: our tax system needs to be simplified. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to provide a number of building blocks for a simpler system, so that we can actually do something about it. I am waiting for the letter in which he sets out a number of things, but at the same time I would point out that we must take concrete steps on this point. Mr. Chairman. One of the measures that I continue to worry about is the abolition of the VAT refund scheme for public transport. My concerns are then mainly directed at those people who depend on that transport because of a restriction or where, for example, groups of children are employed. In the last few days, even at the petition this afternoon, I was informed that this measure would increase transport costs by almost 15%. I heard the Secretary of State say on Friday that people are not going to be in the cold, and I have noted that. In addition, my group is asking for this measure to be properly monitored. It is important that this group of people can continue to rely on efficient organised transport and preferably as clean as possible. That is what this group wants, given the covenant that has been signed with each other. I will certainly come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures to stimulate electric driving. As of next year, a cap will be introduced on the addition of electric cars. Cars up to €50,000 have 4% add-on and those above 22%. My group considers it important that there are enough electric cars available with a battery range that is also attractive to the business driver. The Secretary of State has confirmed that this is the case. I ask him to monitor this development carefully and to inform the Court of Justice about it as soon as it is out of step. The second point, Mr President, is that my group is also concerned about electric cars that come out of the lease as second-hand cars after 60 months. With the current rules they become more expensive than new electric cars. It must not be the case that these fiscally facilitated cars disappear to the second-hand market in the countries around us. At the moment, the House of Representatives is holding a written consultation on the evaluation of the Autobrief. I have asked a number of questions on this point and I will certainly come back to both points. For the moment, I am mainly concerned with monitoring developments, I say to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Now that the cabinet is committed to reducing people's taxes, it is important that we continue to monitor the development of local burdens for people. I made a point of the solar panels last week. People who purchase solar panels often have to do with higher taxes, because solar panels on your roof increase the value of your home. The VVD considers that the purchase of solar panels should not be penalised by a higher ozb tax. My group therefore believes that the municipalities should exempt solar panels from local taxes. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is rich in many entrepreneurs. As a Member of Parliament, it is a privilege to meet these entrepreneurs. Whether it's the baker in the village or the start-up that makes cow manure clothing, the zzp'er who, after years of experience, starts working as an ICT operator himself, or an SME'er who has become a big company with energy-efficient lamps that lights up the football fields all over Europe; all of them are entrepreneurs with passion and companies to be proud of. Whether it's the entrepreneurs or the people who work for them, they make this beautiful country. And being an entrepreneur is more. They are entrepreneurs who work with the many local and national initiatives. From the football club to the day sailing with the elderly, from the athletics association to the European Championship horseback riding; they cannot do without the support of these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u13	Back to those solar cells for a second. I also read somewhere in the newspaper that it would be unfair for someone to put money into the sustainability of their home and see it reflected in higher local taxes, in the World Health Organisation. How does the VVD see the effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u14	I think that's pretty simple. When you leave solar panels outside the WZ value or outside the IZB tax, you don't have to punish people when purchasing solar panels. This is often an investment to reduce the energy bill. I believe that most of the parties agree that we want to encourage these investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u15	Sure. My party is also of sustainability and my party is also of the opinion that this should not be taxed more heavily. But it's how the system works that matters to me. How is the WOZ of an average home in the Netherlands currently determined?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u16	The housing value is determined by a value valuation. When solar panels are installed on a house, they count in the increase in the value of the house. This is where the taxes will be aligned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u17	I would like to pass on the following to Mrs Lodders. Not every home is valued. A standard home is valued and then related to it. In practice, very few homes are valued. In practice, you have to come up with some kind of system that somehow excludes people from it. I do not see how this can be done in the system of the municipalities. I'm just looking for the applicability. I love the idea, but how are we going to apply it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u18	Tomorrow, when we have the second term together, I will certainly table a motion on this. I think the most important thing for now is that we want this settled. I think that is shared by a lot of parties, including in the country by a lot of council members. I brought that up during the WHO last week. I think there is a solution to this because people have approached me and said, "Damn, now I have a higher ozb tax because I have invested in solar panels. What does politics want?" I do not think that we should be very difficult about the solution. In the end, it's about the goal. That's encouraging people to buy solar panels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u19	I totally agree with Mrs Lodders. However, the practice is that the administrative burden is very high if that means that you have to value each house and spend a few hundred euros per house. I was genuinely wondering how that could be done in a smart way. If you have a proposal for that tomorrow, other than a motion calling for it, I am very curious to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u20	There are plenty of ways of shaping that in practice. I don't think you should go over it, but now we're really into the technique, and I don't really want you to release an X-value per single element that makes up a solar panel. That's the kind of solution you should be looking for. Of course, the solution should not be so burdensome as to remove the advantage. We certainly share that. But at least I welcome Mr Azarkan's support for encouraging this type of thing, because that is what it is all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u21	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u22	Mr. Chairman. I had mentioned a number of examples of why entrepreneurs are so important, not only for jobs, but also because of the social initiative that they often show. That is why it is so important that this country is attractive to entrepreneurs and businesses. We can achieve this by providing an attractive tax system, by controlling the administrative burden and by ensuring good education and therefore qualified staff, good accessibility and good digital infrastructure. And there are other examples of this. These companies provide jobs and investment. This involves both business investment and investment in social initiatives. That'll make us all better. It is therefore a good thing that this cabinet is committed to keeping attractive and making the establishment and entrepreneurial environment attractive. This is done, among other things, by reducing taxes and labour costs and by investing in accessibility and knowledge and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u23	Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u24	I think that this country should not only be pleasant to those who come here to do business, but also to those who live here, who are part of society and who work here. Mrs Lodders says quite clearly that the tax reduction of 4 billion that year goes out to businesses will lead to investment. How much investment will that yield?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u25	I didn't do that math, and I'm not gonna make it here. I am concerned that the taxes on companies, which have had to tighten their belts in recent years, are going down. I am very pleased that the cabinet is committed to this. At our house, we can only spend the money in our wallet once. That applies to me, to Mrs Leijten and, of course, to entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u26	The same goes for the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u28	If you spend year in, year out of 4 billion to large companies without getting any guarantee that they will invest the profits they make, which are even higher than ever before, in the Netherlands, for example in employment, you will give away a very expensive gift without knowing that it will lead to anything. I find that very strange, because the VVD always wants to know what the return on investment is? For example, there can be no additional police officers to eliminate the austerity of Rutte II, but there can be 4 billion to be thrown away without any consideration. Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u29	I don't think we're throwing away any money. On the contrary, because I have just argued why it is so important that we create a good location and entrepreneurial environment for those entrepreneurs. We do this by focusing on a number of aspects and tax cuts are one of them. I cannot quantify the investments on the other hand, but I do know that the same entrepreneur is also working at the hockey or football club on Saturday or on the day of sailing with older people. It may be faint, but we do not ask our citizens how many potatoes or vegetables they buy for tax relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u30	Last night, the highest police chief on television said that it's a daily choice between a serious rape case or the detection of organized crime. That's how bad it is with our police department. Go and explain to people in the Schilderwijk or elsewhere in The Hague or to the CEO that this is good for the location climate. The VVD doesn't do anything about that, but without any guarantee, it's no problem to make 4 billion tax cuts for companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mrs Leijten and I have a different view of that. This cabinet reduces taxes for people, this cabinet lowers taxes for entrepreneurs and this cabinet also invests in the public sector. I think we should be very proud of each other. At least my group is. Mr. Chairman. My group is pleased to say once again that in this cabinet period the tax on profits for SMEs will be reduced from 20% to 15%. The larger companies often with higher profits see the reduction in the tax on profits to 20.5%. This is good news, especially in addition to the extra money available to reduce labour costs: EUR 100 million specifically for SMEs, and a further EUR 200 million has been added. Entrepreneurs must also feel that the burden is falling. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he accepts my suggestion to invite a group of entrepreneurs from daily practice and to identify the bottlenecks with them. In doing so, I ask him to take with him the cost of working so that a number of frustrations can be removed in this area. As part of the business environment, it is important that companies can attract the right people from home and abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u32	Mr Snels has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u33	I think it is an interesting suggestion from Mrs Lodder that the cabinet should sit down with employers to discuss how this additional reduction in social security contributions of 200 million can be used. That is one of the elements of the Tax Plan and the review that my group supports. I would find it interesting if that conversation also raises the question, especially to SMEs, but perhaps also to larger companies, if they would not prefer some additional social security relief instead of Vpb reduction. Would you be open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u34	That question is not before today. The package we are discussing today is a package of various measures which my group supports. But I always think the conversation with the entrepreneurs is important, not just about the suggestion I make about reducing the burden on labour. I think it is always important to be in conversation with entrepreneurs, to stay and to go, precisely to identify the problems they face and to see if we can continue with them. The most important message, I think, is that we think it is so important that we do not think behind our desk that we know what is good for that entrepreneur. Let the entrepreneur speak for himself. Mr. Chairman. I was at the expat arrangement. The expat scheme gives a tax advantage to people who work in the Netherlands for a number of years. In the coalition agreement, this arrangement has been shattered. My group is pleased that the cabinet has found room for a transitional measure in the business package. The start-ups and scale-ups benefit from the proposed tax relief. However, I often get signals that these groups in particular do not always have enough opportunities to attract staff and to distribute own funds to the staff. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to further improve the various opportunities for start-ups and scale-ups by the beginning of next year at the latest. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet intended to abolish the dividend tax. I'm gonna have to name that here today, too. It was an important measure in the context of the locational environment. My group, I also said this last week, and I think it is still a good measure, but we have not closed our eyes to what is happening around us. Previously, we discussed with the Secretary of State about the legal sustainability of the dividend tax and how we can reduce the administrative burden of the dividend tax on companies. On this point, too, I look forward to the promised information. I have expressed my concerns about the current account measure. This measure came out of the top hat for many entrepreneurs and fell raw with them on the roof. Tackling excesses can count on the support of the VVD, but let's also pay attention to all those entrepreneurs who make our beautiful country. My group is pleased that more room has been created in the business package. I look forward to finalising the current account measure. We will certainly be able to discuss this in greater depth. In addition to the financial burden relief, it is also important to address administrative burden relief. A number of improvements are being made in the tax laws before us. My group welcomes that. One point where the Secretary of State can take another step is the VAT return for small entrepreneurs with an annual turnover where they pay up to €1.883 VAT. With the KOR, the small enterprise scheme, these companies also have to make a quarterly VAT return. I will come back to this in the second term and, if necessary, put forward a motion to allow this group of entrepreneurs to make an annual declaration, even though it is a small group of entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. The Tax Administration is at the bar every working day to collect 1 billion euros of tax money, money needed to pay our provisions. It is therefore important for the Tax Administration to function properly. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all parts of the service. I will not go into that today; it will come later. I would particularly like to look ahead to this point. Both the taxpayer and the tax administration themselves benefit from a well-functioning service. There's a lot of work going on on at the moment. May I call him? The IRS 2.0. The Tax Administration 2.0 must be competent, easily accessible and visible, both for the people who have to report them and for the people who have questions if they receive a donation or ask about the complicated surcharge system. The same applies to entrepreneurs. If they have questions about how to interpret the rules or about their declaration, they need to be able to reach the service and receive an adequate response. There are still many desires to improve expertise, accessibility and visibility, apart from the measures contained in this Tax Plan, which must also be implemented. Work on remodeling and introducing new measures or simplifications is likely to be a success. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to keep looking for a balance. On the one hand, we need to know what the IRS can handle, so don't ask him over. On the other hand, people and entrepreneurs do expect that expert, easily accessible and visible service. Last week I asked the Secretary of State to take a good look at whether there are any activities that do not necessarily belong to the Tax Office. I myself mentioned the example of converting a tax scheme into a subsidy scheme. The Secretary of State had an example of his own. I welcome the commitment that he wants to make a quick scan to see if there are more examples of activities that can also be carried out by other services or organisations. I hope that will come to us at the beginning of next year. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to mention two points which are interrelated with sport. I see I'm probably going over my time. First of all, the issue of VAT. A large number of municipal sports companies have indicated that they cannot comply with the Secretary of State's proposal. The proposal will lead to an increase in the price of admission tickets to the swimming pool or sports hall. At the same time, I heard the Secretary of State say last week that the ticket for sport will not be more expensive. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how he is going to ensure that the tickets for the sport and/or the swimming pool do not become more expensive. Next week, colleagues will be talking about the Sport budget. This will certainly be the subject of discussion. So I'd like to get that explanation. Finally, on this package of laws: the gambling tax. I am not reassured on this point either. This has to do with e-mails I received from the Dutch Lottery and people involved, as well as the messages from trotting and racing. Can the Secretary of State go into this case again in detail? Is he prepared to contact both organizations and inform the Chamber before 1 April of the outcome of these talks? And can he take care of the question of whether both the Lotto and the trotting and racing can continue to exist? The Secretary of State has this space in my view, because the proposed amendment is introduced with a royal decree. That should take place by mid- 2020 at the earliest in July 2020, I read it. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to enter into consultations at that time, but then the concerns must be removed. Mr. Chairman. In this respect, I conclude. There are three important things: the reduction of taxation for people, the reduction of taxation for entrepreneurs and investment in the public sector. It's a good thing we talked about that last week, today and tomorrow night. But then we also have to work to turn our intentions into action. Mr. Chairman. A short bit about the ATAD, the eighth law before it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u35	Before proceeding, Mr Van Rooijen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u36	I have waited until the end of Mrs Lodder's speech on this major issue, the Tax Plan. I've missed something on everything that's made in good grace with and to beautiful stories has been told about tax cuts. It did not comment on the fact that the Secretary of State, also in response to written questions from 50PLUS, acknowledged that 3,6 billion, or actually 4 billion, would be levelled at a particular figure in this debate. This is due to the reduction of the working discount, and in particular to the freezing of the income limit for the second rate: it is frozen for a number of years and then increased by less than €9,000 than in the basic path. Can Mr Lodders say that that is true and what she thinks of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u37	However, there are a number of de-levelling measures to this effect. I have gone into the most important: the two-disk system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u38	I have also read this in the written reply of the cabinet. There is a general relief for those who get it: two discs and increase the discounts. If it had been another year, and if there had been only, for example, the reduction of the elderly discount as proposed today, but also the freezing of the top rate of income, then that group would have just lost 4 billion. In other words, it just so happens that there is relief via discs and discounts, but there is also 4 billion burdens for the middle groups, of which we all, the VVD at the top, think are important. Would you like to acknowledge that? There is simply a leveling of 4 billion, and that 4 billion is also used to finance the EUR 10 billion reduction for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u39	We can discuss all individual measures in detail, but I would like to look at the overall package. In addition to leveling, there are also de-levelling measures in the package before us. During this cabinet period the burden is reduced by more than 5 billion. Mr Van Rooijen cannot ignore that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u40	However, do you recognise that there is a reduction in the working discount, which is going down more and more; it is like a ski course and freezing the income limit to €67,000 and increasing it only slightly for a few years after that? This concerns the middle groups, which we all care about, the VVD first. Do you just acknowledge that's happening? I know a lot of other things are happening, but specifically those groups are being seriously affected by these two measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u41	Once again, I repeat, even after last week, there is a package of measures and you need to look at the coherence of this package of measures. It's balanced. And that is what my group supports. Mr President, I will continue with the ATAD. It concerns the implementation of a European directive. In the case of a good location climate, it is not appropriate if there are companies or people who evade the tax. The cabinet is therefore taking a number of steps to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. We have already had a debate on this on a number of occasions. The VVD line is clear: tax evasion is illegal and criminal and the VVD wants to tackle it hard. In addition to the criminal evasion of tax, we also know the avoidance of tax. It is often not illegal, but the question is whether anything should be done. If the edges of the law are looked up, as in the case of passing money through letterbox companies, that will be dealt with. At the same time, attention must also be paid to the locational environment, so that good business is not harmed. A number of large and small entrepreneurs from different sectors are concerned about the ATAD Directive. I see it as our job to take those concerns away. I hope that the Secretary of State will confirm once again that the approach to tax evasion and avoidance should be directed at those companies that knowingly go beyond the law. You're talking about tax evasion. I've indicated before that not everything that can be done should be done. And we're talking specifically about tax avoidance. Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the introduction of ATAD 1. With the implementation of this European directive, we are taking four measures. I discussed this last week during the debate. One of my concerns focused on the CFC measure. I will not go into the content of that, because it is very technical. This measure shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. For companies with a broken financial year, this would lead to a lot of additional administrative burdens. Therefore, I welcome the State Secretary's commitment that this measure will start for those companies with a broken financial year from the first financial year on or after 1 January 2019. Mr President, I will conclude. My group wants to tackle tax evasion. Tax avoidance, which looks at the edges of our legislation, must also be avoided as much as possible. It is important not to lose sight of our benevolent and hard-working entrepreneurs, any more than the consequences for the Dutch locational climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u42	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u43	Tenants are also caught by the anti-tax avoidance directive. Their housing companies have to pay more tax, while they do not avoid tax. That's kind of weird, actually. Now I have asked if the Secretary of State can prove that the European Commission should do so, but he does not want to give us the advice. How does Mrs. Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u44	Mrs Leijten should particularly discuss this question with the Secretary of State. It is true that the housing corporations will also be covered by the ATAD. That means they have to pay more taxes. On the other hand, however, the cabinet is also taking a number of measures to accommodate housing corporations. These are the reduction in the landlord's tax, the provision of 100 million for sustainability and a third measure, which I am not prepared to accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u45	You can also meet them by not letting them fall under ATAD. Then you don't have to give presents and compensate every year. Then you just make sure they don't have to pay that extra tax. What I find worrying is that you seem to think that you can take a measure without having seen that Europe should do so. At the same time, it is said: it must be done; it must be done by Europe. Wouldn't it be good if we just got that advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u46	I think I read a little more nuance about this in the last letter from the Secretary of State, but I do not have it here. I should take a look back at that. Look, it's also a political choice. Mrs Leijten may appeal to me on that point. The housing corporations are compensated on three points. Or compensated: they are compensated twice and third they also use the Vpb reduction. They also benefit from this. I just didn't get that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u47	We've been having a debate for two days. For the housing corporations, the VVD just wants to raise taxes in its election program, so I can see why she's not sticking out for that. We talked about the relief. That is a temporary slide; we have all debated it. But this is now the third day and I was actually wondering which of the proposals the opposition has put forward on all these eight laws, Mrs Lodders, is positive. These are now more than 100 proposals, perhaps 150. Which of these proposals does she see something in? What proposal does she propose: well, that outstretched hand that my party leader, the Prime Minister, made to the opposition, am I putting into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u48	I always want to take a serious look at good proposals. But we have had the debate with each other for three days and I would like to emphasise the difference. I've reported it a number of times. This cabinet reduces taxes for people, lowers taxes for entrepreneurs and invests in the public sector. I have to be honest. In your counter-budget, I see that you increase the burden on people. Of course, we are looking seriously at proposals that lead to this, but we will not be able to count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u49	No, I get that. We want to increase the Vpb and the profit tax, and the VVD doesn't want that. We also want to increase bank taxes and tax millionaires more. The VVD doesn't want that; that's very easy. But on all eight laws, with quite a lot of technology, we have all made other proposals. For example, I would like to mention my proposal to tax investors a little more heavily and to give start-ups a 0% rate. Charge reduction for starting house buyers: how VVD do you want it? And it's neatly covered. For example, dozens of proposals have been made, which you cannot dismiss with the general remark: it is all a burden increase and we are against it. My real question to you is: have you considered what proposals have been put forward for amendment, motion or debate? After hearing your input, I'm still counting zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u50	Nor are we voting on the amendments this afternoon. Amendments are still being tabled. My group will make a serious assessment of these amendments. Once again, I would like to highlight the fact that as a coalition we are making some very good proposals. Mr Nijboer might well be pleased to receive a small piece of positivity on this subject too, which does not have to be sent directly to this cabinet, which has made a considerable effort to reduce taxes, especially after the last period in which both of us, both the Labour Party and the VVD, have had to take some difficult measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u51	You will hear the opinion on the tax measures in the contribution of the PvdA. My appeal to you is truly sincere: take seriously and take over serious proposals for improvement, alternatives and opposition work seriously. You're the biggest government party in the world. You have done so much in the past, when the PvdA ruled with the VVD, not only with the C3 and C5, but also with the SP and GroenLinks. I don't see anything of that now. I hope to see more of it in the votes tomorrow than I am hearing in your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u52	Again, if they are good proposals, we will look seriously at them. At the same time, I do not want to have the impression that this cabinet is doing nothing at all. Once again, these are very nice proposals. After a number of years in which we had to tighten the belt, we have fortunately been able to do positive business. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u53	Thank you. Mr Snels van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The paradox of our tax system is that it has become so complicated that it is too complicated to simplify it. I've said this before. However, a real reform of the tax system is urgently needed. The package now before us is not a reform, and that is actually a missed opportunity. We know that we need a lot of money to accompany a real reform. But the profit of the debate that we have had in writing and in the legislative submissions is that the cabinet is working on the building blocks of a new system. The Secretary of State has promised to send a letter early in 2019 on how he will handle it. For GroenLinks, a number of perspectives are important. Tax policy is at the heart of our democracy. The revenue of 300 billion is used for common purposes. Everyone contributes to that. First of all, it must be clear to people what the system is like. It must remain as simple and understandable as possible. Secondly, it must be fair and fair. This is true between people and companies, between income from capital and labour, between high and low incomes and between one and two earners. These are the basic principles of how we collect taxes. That is why we need to look at the race for soil and the relationship between businesses and citizens. The cabinet is reluctant to do so, but it is necessary from the point of view of justice and it is becoming more urgent with the approach to climate policy and the question of where the burden will lie. The build-up of power in Box 2 and 3 and the question of how we deal with power taxation are also important issues for GroenLinks. Fair and simple as anchor points. At the same time, the system itself can contribute to other desirable societal goals. I agree with those who say that we should be careful with fiscal instrumentalism. Greening and promoting the employment rate of vulnerable groups of people are important goals. We are going to work on climate policy in the coming years. This means that we need room to regulate the burden-sharing between companies and households and between high and low incomes. For that we need buttons, fiscal instruments, in the system. It is precisely here that we see, as the Council of State states, that we are running against the limits of the current system. An important theme, which I have also said in the WHO, is that the problem of silvering runs out. We can no longer reach low-income people through tax rebates. The tax rebates, the cash-in problem, the relationship with surcharges and marginal pressure are important perspectives for the analysis of the building blocks for a new system. So it has to be fair, simpler and greener. It should also contribute to the opportunities for the most vulnerable people. Does the Secretary of State share these principles? Mr. Chairman. I took some time to think about a new tax system in the future, because there is a lot at stake here. I am pleased that the cabinet is working on this and I look forward to the agenda of the Secretary of State. Well, I'm getting to the tax plan we're talking about. Let me first make some general comments on the general part of the Tax Plan. Then let me say something about greening and finally about companies and ATAD. The cabinet stresses the burden relief of 6.5 billion in this cabinet period. However, in 2019 there will still be a burden increase of 100 million according to the Cabinet or 800 million according to the CPB. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State has acknowledged this in the legislative consultation. For lower incomes in particular, it is uncertain whether they will improve on it in the coming period. This has to do with the uncertainty about wage increases and inflation, but also with the burden of rent increases or care costs. That's hard to say when you think that we're at the top of the boom and we're probably over it already. If ordinary people with low or ordinary incomes do not yet benefit from the increased economic prosperity, when will they? A number of choices made by this coalition contribute to this. That's what I'm worried about. The flat tax is mainly provided by the CDA with the predicate "social." But what is social about a flat tax if the reduction in the top rate is mainly at the highest income level? The reduction in the top rate means that EUR 2.7 billion will reach the 10% highest income and EUR 1.6 billion at the highest 5%. In particular, the highest incomes are less affected by the reduction in the rate at which deductions are paid. What problem will this ultimately solve? By making the tariff structure less progressive, it is necessary to correct it with tax reductions. They have disadvantages, for example because they increase marginal pressure and have a negative impact on employment rates. In addition, they exacerbate the silvering problem again. Mr. Chairman. Another choice I have difficulty with is to cut the income-dependent combination discount. I paid a great deal of attention to this last week in the legislative consultation. According to my group, it affects families with children at the bottom of the labour market. This is bad for the participation decision as such of the least-earning partner. It is also bad for the income position of these children. And that while last year the portability of the employment discount and the IACK is already limited and the cash-in problem is growing rapidly. 900,000 additional households are unable or no longer fully able to redeem the employment discount, and 80,000 additional households are affected by the IACK. I understand the fact that the difference between one and two earners has to be fairer, but this way many families are affected. I'm afraid they're also low-income families. In this way, the instruments designed to stimulate employment and protect incomes become even more blunt and ineffective. If you want to do something about the position of one- and two-earners, so if you want to balance them a little more, then build up the income-dependent combination discount for higher incomes. Because that is not really an employment instrument anymore. In any case, I would like to reverse the austerity at the bottom of the income building and to find cover for this through the reduction of the combination discount. An amendment is in preparation for this. Mr. Chairman. VAT is also in our throats. The increase in VAT is not a greening measure. It is a shift from direct to indirect taxes, as the Secretary of State explained to us. But precisely because it is so difficult to compensate for lower incomes for this, GroenLinks has difficulty with this measure. The Secretary of State has indicated that this increase in the low rate is not a first step towards a uniform rate. We don't have to expect any additional increases in the low rate. The question that he has not actually answered and which may also lie a little bit more in the future is: how can we differentiate more in VAT according to environmental and health impacts? Meat should be more expensive as far as I am concerned, but not fruit and vegetables. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the real greening of taxes, an important theme for GroenLinks. It must contribute to an effective climate policy, but it must also be supported through fair burden-sharing. As I said last week, according to De Nederlandsche Bank, we cannot achieve the Paris objectives without a price policy. €50 per megaton is necessary and can also without negative economic effects. It is even good for the economy, according to De Nederlandsche Bank. But the message is that industry, including the larger polluters, must also pay and contribute. The burden is now too much for households. Where businesses remain out of control for the time being, households will have to pay extra in 2019 and more than 400 million will be cut off on the energy discount for people. My group has already made this point in the presentation of the coalition agreement. We have also come back to this very explicitly in the Financial and General Reviews. It is important that the CPB has indicated that these measures are not in line with the Princess Day figures on purchasing power. Higher incomes are increasing by 0.2%. Lower incomes are falling by 0.2%. My question is what this means for the percentage of people who are not making any progress. This question has still not been answered. The cabinet likes to shield with those over 90% of people who are making progress. This correction of the Princess Day figures means, in my opinion, that the 92% rate will really be much lower, especially when it comes to lower incomes. I would like to know this percentage. This means that the balanced purchasing power picture, at least according to the definitions or terms of the cabinet or coalition, is distorted. The coalition parties are concerned about the acceptance of climate policy. In particular, Mr Buma of the CDA has made statements on this issue. My group believes that we should not give households a higher energy bill already if we want to be able to shape that energy transition with a great deal of support. My proposal is to reverse this 400 million cut in the energy discount and to cover it by a balanced increase in the gas and electricity levy in the slightly higher discs. Companies are already going to pay a little more. Households are improving. It provides support for climate policy. It is also a first step towards the climate agreement. Mr. Chairman. This proposal is crucial for my group to finally determine our vote on the general part of the Tax Plan. I put out my hand at the WHO for that. I'm still doing that. If the coalition considers the social support for a fair and effective climate policy important and looks at my amendment with an open eye, it could be that the political support for the Tax Plan will increase in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. What my group is going to vote against and which we do not agree with is the substantial reduction in the tax on profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u55	However, just for clarity: so if a little greening takes place, GroenLinks takes the VAT increase and the unfair income tax, with the 52% rate going below 50% and with the lowest income making the least progress, for goodness sake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u56	That is very clearly the proposal I make to the coalition. It's not the shuffling of greening. It's purchasing power repair for really low incomes. This way we ensure that people do not get a higher energy bill. In doing so, we ensure that low incomes improve on the cabinet plans. And we will ensure a fairer climate policy. It's more social and it's greener. That's worth a lot to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u57	GroenLinks has tabled an amendment not to increase VAT. That must be accepted, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u58	I have indeed tabled an amendment with you, or it will still be settled, and I am and will remain against the VAT increase. But the VAT increase is in the general section. It depends on the mood. If I look at what is happening in this Chamber, it could indeed be that the majority, so just the coalition, are voting in favour of the VAT increase. I also ask them to vote in favour of reducing the energy bill for households.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u59	But do I understand that the VAT increase is not in your conditional vote, so is it just about reducing the energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u60	It's $400 million for the energy bill. That is the key point for my group. Look at the purchasing power effects of all plans. Then you see that it is mainly in the general part, so the relief but also the VAT increase, which I am still opposed to. The income effects are unbalanced. My aim with this outstretched hand is to ensure that low incomes and lower incomes are significantly improved. We can do that if we make sure the energy bill doesn't go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u61	Okay, so for the 400 million repairs, no matter how good I think they are; I have tabled a similar proposal which is slightly different, because we all want to do something about it, so that the flat tax can be introduced and VAT increased. So I get that, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u62	That's about the proposal. I would also like to say the following. Mr Nijboer just asked the coalition where the outstretched hand remains. I think that's a fair question. But I also think it's important for me to put out my hand. I wonder if my outstretched hand will be taken. So far, Mrs Leijten, all I see is a door on a very small gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u63	I also had to listen carefully to know what GroenLinks is proposing. I have heard GroenLinks act very hard in the past against lowering the Vpb; that was a race to the bottom. Does GroenLinks actually say here: if you follow our stick horse, namely the energy bill and how we think you should tax it, are we going to support all those measures that we have been against for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u64	No, you misunderstood. That's a separate part of the bill. I am voting against the reduction in the tax on profits. I think that is the wrong choice. It is 4 billion relief for companies that we, and I think a large part of the opposition, would make other choices for. It is becoming more difficult for me to put forward an amendment to the effect that the VAT increase should not continue. But in the end, I have no influence on what that means for the coalition's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u65	So you're saying I'll accept the VAT increase because I don't have any influence on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u66	Then I stay against the VAT increase, but I fought hard to make sure that people don't end up getting a higher energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u67	That doesn't exactly lead to clarity, I have the idea. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u68	I think it's kind of special what's happening. In my view, Mr Snels is in the process of at least looking at how he can support the good proposals of the Tax Plan and then being called to order, if I may put it that way. I have just said in my speech to Mr Nijboer that of course we want to look seriously at all the good proposals. I hear Mr Snels saying what he just said. Can he also comment on the various options for covering the proposal he would like to make? Does he see room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u69	For my group, the most important thing is to reverse this cut in energy reductions. It cannot be sold, it is bad for acceptance, and it is at the expense of the purchasing power of low-income people. That more than 400 million cuts is the most important thing. My main preference is to find this whole 400 million in an increase in energy prices for the larger consumers. Of course, there's still a lot of work to be done. I have made a rather complex amendment, which, in my view, includes six or nine rates which need to be increased. You could also think of other instruments for that. But in the end, it has to be about correcting what happened to the purchasing power figures on Prinsjesdag: low incomes have to make more progress than they do now in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u70	Many amendments have been tabled, so we shall have our minds made up, especially when we have heard the Secretary of State. But let me at least conclude by saying to Mr Snels that I appreciate it; let us see how we can make good proposals with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u71	Mr Snels continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u72	It's still exciting. Mr. Chairman. As I said, my group will not agree to the reduction of the VPB rates. My group believes that the choice here should have been really different. For example, there is no room for additional investment in workload or wages for teachers, in care workers or in police officers. It is good that the dividend tax is not abolished, but my group cannot agree to spending 4 billion on a lower profit tax. We are leading the race to the bottom when it comes to company taxes. In the end, that can't be sustained. If the rest of Europe follows us, it will be at the expense of the social model we are so proud of in Europe. The abolition of the dividend tax was a relief for abroad, and now companies are suddenly getting an additional relief. I have said it before: I think the business environment is just as important as the VVD, but then you have to solve very precise bottlenecks. I have put forward proposals for this before, in the Financial Reviews, for example in the case of the Wbso, in the case of innovation, or in the case of public-private partnerships. That is why I believe that the reduction of social security contributions for employers is a good measure. That measure was in the review. As far as I and my group are concerned, the extra 200 million should be used as a priority to ensure that vulnerable people are given a place on the labour market. Will the Secretary of State take this into account in the consultation with SMEs and the business community, Mrs Lodders referred to him as having one too? Mr. Chairman. Then the expats. That's also about the locational climate. I have already indicated that, as far as I am concerned, the whole scheme may lapse, but I am also sensitive to the sudden phasing-out. For example, the impact on young researchers, aio's and postdocs, who are here from abroad strengthening our knowledge-based economy, has led me to see if another proposal can be made. In this case, the government's postponement measure is insufficient. I think you could also stop the scheme for very high incomes. That is also what happens in other countries. And as the evaluation of the scheme indicates, the highest incomes benefit mainly from the scheme in terms of budget. A quarter of the budget, 220 million, goes to 2,000 expats with a very high income. That's over a ton of tax subsidy per expat. Over a ton! Even the Tesla grant is not included. I have an amendment in preparation. I don't know if that's been filed yet. I thank the Ministry for the revised estimates. That has gone back and forth and there was some uncertainty about it, but in the end it is about right now, I think. However, I also saw an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer with a higher capping limit, and budgetaryly it yielded more than mine. So I don't think that's quite true yet, but maybe the Ministry can still look into that. In any case, as the figures of the Ministry of Finance are now, my amendment also provides a structural additional 177 million, on top of the transitional measure of the cabinet. So you can take a better transitional measure than the cabinet does and still have a lot of money left. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to ATAD, the European directive to combat tax avoidance. It remains frustrating that when implementing European directives we do not know what other countries are doing with the flexibility. Are they minimal or maximum? The Secretary of State says that we are stricter than other countries, but there is really no evidence for that. In the spring, a motion was adopted asking the cabinet to explicitly justify the choices in the implementation of directives. I asked for this earlier in the WHO but I did not actually receive an answer. I have some doubts about this bill. My impression is that most countries opt for model A in the CFC measure, i.e. taxing income categories and dividend interest rates, which is the most effective way to combat constructions, but only the Netherlands opts for model B and only in exceptional cases for model A. I do not understand the Netherlands' exceptional position in this area. If we are going to model A, then the rate is important. We've talked about that before. The rate of 7% is random. At the very least, you should take the lowest statutory rate in Europe. That's 9% in Hungary. I have put my name under the D66, CDA and Christian Union amendment to increase that 7% to 9%. In any case, we have laid some sort of soil in Europe. What I do want to know is whether it is right that ATAD should allow us to use a higher percentage for non-EU countries. Then why don't we? Mr. Chairman. Then the substance requirements. Essential economic activity is filled with a ton of salary and a small office. A requirement that is the same for large and small companies cannot be effective and proportionate at the same time. This measure can be too strict for small businesses and is certainly too weak for large companies. The international standard is an open standard with proportional substance requirements. I do not understand why we cannot join this international practice. What can tax authorities in other countries do what our tax authorities couldn't do? The substance requirements come back in the field of tax avoidance on various dossiers. I am also looking forward to the proposals made by the Secretary of State when we review and talk about the rule practice, because I have seen his answers in the legislative consultation as a commitment to really look at the substance requirements again. Mr. Chairman. Then the earnings stripping, the interest relief. Yes, it's a lot and complex! 30% is the minimum standard. The same applies here: what do other countries actually do? Here again I have the same frustration. Are we strict because we lower the SME threshold or are we not strict enough because other countries are below 30%? Actually, we don't know; please have a comment. As far as housing corporations are concerned, consultations have been held between the Ministry and Aedes. We've had a report on that. I understand that there are still differences of opinion on the development of charges. For my group, the enormous task in the housing market is important. There are many houses that need to be added in order to cope with the scarcity and there is also a very large greening exercise. A rising tax burden on housing corporations is not appropriate. How's the Cabinet handling that? Can I ask the Cabinet to monitor this and come forward with proposals in future tax plans, should this increase in charges or the disappointing reduction in charges result in less investment in homes or higher rents? Because then we are exacerbating the crisis in the housing market with a measure that is not intended for housing corporations, but for combating tax avoidance; please respond. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the written answers to my idea of reducing the deductibility of tax advice. After all, tax advisers are the architects of tax constructions. I will not now table an amendment to that, although it has been prepared, but I will come back to the mandate disclosure directive. I'll consider a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u73	Thank you to Mr Snels. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u74	Mr. Chairman. For us, the most comprehensive package of tax legislation has been in place over the past 15 years. There are major changes to it. It is an ambitious plan to significantly reduce the burden on labour. This is covered by higher taxes on consumption and environmental pollution. The tax on profits is reduced, which to a large extent is covered by the broadening of the basis. This means that the routes to pay less tax are bricked up, that you can't take losses forever anymore, that the interest you may deduct is limited. That is also what the ATAD directive is about. In return, we ensure that companies that use it relatively less benefit from it. This proposal represents a major step towards reducing marginal pressure, in particular through the introduction of social flat tax. The marginal pressure decreases most for people around a modal income. That's where it's the highest at the moment. But we're doing more. We come with a gradual phasing-out of the rent allowance. And the old-age discount is no longer going down in one go. The aim of all this is that work should pay extra and that additional work should also pay extra. Basically, we'd like you to have half your income. Even after this plan, this goal has not yet been fully achieved, but a major step is being taken. Where marginal pressures are highest, i.e. in the case of middle incomes, they may eventually fall by 10% over the next two years. The cabinet also chooses to really solve a number of bottlenecks. I would like to mention a number of examples, first of all the old people's discount. If you have an income of €36,346, as an older person, you are entitled to an elderly discount of €1,346 this year. If you get one euro above that limit, you lose the whole item of €1,346 at once. This government changes that. If you are €100 above that limit, you will not lose €1,346, but just €15. That's appropriate. Of course, you'll have a headline that says, "The rich retiree is making the most of it." Yes, of course, but it was quite an injustice that a retired person who was just below that threshold of €36.346 had more than €1,000 more net income than the one who was above it. We are correcting this error in the tax system. Mr. Chairman. A second example is the hard limit in the rent surcharge. If you have a single house and you have one euro above the €22,400 income, you will lose your entire rent allowance. This may mean that you will receive a recovery of more than €1,000 rental fee per year. Higher amounts are also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u75	Before you proceed, Mr Van Rooijen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u76	In the Senate, in a debate with Wiebes, I also talked about the elderly discount, which meant that you lost €1,300 at one euro. He called it a trapdoor at the time. It was. We've been trying to change that for three years. It was, moreover, the previous cabinet that decided to do so in principle, of which it took note. Can you explain with me why an arrangement was introduced at all without any downgrading, while all other discounts, regardless of whether they go fast or slow... With the elderly it was said: €36,000 we find too much, so with one euro more you lose it right away. Do you have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u77	That arrangement was introduced so long ago that I think Mr Van Rooijen will remember when it was introduced and I do not remember myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u78	Let me rephrase the question. I'll ask the Secretary of State later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u79	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u80	Under the previous cabinet all discounts went up and the elderly discount was reduced from €1,000 to €900. I didn't do it. I didn't do it. One of the arguments I came up with was that there was actually a secret scenario to completely abolish that old-age discount, because that earned a few billion. I'll ask the Secretary of State later. All discounts went up systematically, but the elderly discount went down for the first time. The elderly allowance in box 3 was also abolished at once. The CDA was against that, by the way. This means, and I shall come back to this in detail later, that older people are always the child of the account. They just do. They reduced the old-age discount a few years ago and abolished the old-age allowance. It took a very long time before the old people's discount also got a decent cut-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u81	There's a decent cut-off now. It was put into the Tax Plan by the current cabinet last year. It took a year longer to get her to go in. It wasn't the previous cabinet. It is one of the first things that has been done by this cabinet and which was also in the coalition agreement. Still, I want to make one impression. Mr Van Rooijen always says that the elderly are always the worst. He spoke of an elderly discount of a few years ago from €900. It is now over €1,400.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u82	Yeah, thanks to 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u83	Mr Omtzigt was in the process of answering his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u84	I understand that Mr Van Rooijen thinks that everything here is arranged thanks to 50PLUS. I simply note that over the last few years the old discount has increased by over €500, including under the previous cabinet, so that it has not been abolished, but has been substantially increased, and that there is now a gradual phasing-out. And, I say, a very neat phasing-out of hundreds of millions to correct a system error.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u85	I'm not gonna go back to who advocated all that and who didn't. I note that the old-age discount, which has finally been increased not only but also, thanks to us, is being phased out very quickly. It will be phased out within €10,000. While the employment discount and the general discount stop at €70,000 and €100,000, it already stops at 46,000 for the elderly. Those are the examples of discrimination. By the way, I assume you don't call people with €35,000 rich pensioners. I don't think you said that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u86	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u87	Those are people who have a gross pension of €25,000. That's $2,000 gross per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u88	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u89	My question is whether Mr Omtzigt also thinks that the elderly discount should be reduced more slowly, for example to the €60,000 or €70,000, as is the case with the general tax rebate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u90	I think this is a very neat step towards reducing the old-age discount. You can compare it with the general tax discount, but you can also compare it with the care and rental allowance, which was much earlier phased out. Everyone chooses their own metrum here. What strikes me is that Mr Van Rooijen, where this cabinet with, I believe, 300 to 400 million is trying to make that old-age discount much fairer, does not say 'that's a nice step', but immediately says 'it's no good'. I think it's a very well-balanced step. Unlike other budgets, the CDA tries to look after families with children and elderly people, people who work and people with benefits. And yes, that means that you can't fully implement every plan of each subset.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u91	I didn't say it wasn't right. I would like to say that I am grateful to the Cabinet for the fact that this old age discount has been substantially increased. I didn't say it wasn't right. Don't put that in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u92	Mr Omtzig continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u93	I think that is the most positive comment I have ever heard from Mr Van Rooijen on this cabinet policy. I'll take it with joy! Mr. Chairman. The hard limit on the rent supplement. If you were a single €1 earning more than €22,400, for example because you worked a day, you could get a post charge of more than €1,000. This cabinet abolishes the hard limit in the rent allowance. That means that these kinds of refunds that are really inexplicable to people no longer occur. That's fair. Another example is next year. In that case, earners will retain the maximum child-related budget of around €36.000, €37.000 per year. It is now much faster for single-earners and also for two-earners with relatively low incomes, for example because they both work part-time, and the child-related budget for two-parent households and two-earners is significantly lower than for single-parent households. The fourth point is loan assistance. Entrepreneurs who did not make it in financially difficult times received loan assistance from the municipality. If the company did not recover, the amount of assistance received was cancelled. But the problem is that in the year of forgiveness this was the income and in the other year as a loan. So in the year of remission, income was sometimes twice the welfare standard and people had to pay back all these supplements. That was apeert's injustice. The Ombudsman also wrote this in 2016. He ordered the cabinet to find a solution to this immediately. That took over two years, but this government does. That means it won't happen again in the future. This government has also made sure that compensation is provided for people who have been unfairly obliged to repay these allowances, for which I am grateful. However, there is only one category left. Those are people who, by repaying that supplement at once were pushed far below the social minimum, therefore went bankrupt and are now in the Debt Remodeling Act of natural persons. Those people have made a lot more debts, because that's what started stacking. If these people get a post-payment one day, it goes straight to all creditors. I'm glad the Secretary of State is going to talk to the National Ombudsman. I expect him to find a solution that the National Ombudsman also believes is right for his 2016 report. Mr. Chairman. Another important step is to tackle tax avoidance. Flow companies are being addressed, now with a CFC measure. Next year there will be a withholding tax on interest and royalties. Later we will talk about how much money flows through the Netherlands and how much money there is in the Netherlands. But now that that zero measurement has been made, I have rarely seen such large amounts, except on the ECB's balance sheet, I am counting on visible results in the coming years. I would like to know how ambitious the government really is to bring this down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u94	Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u95	I fully share that question. That zero reading is indeed interesting to see. But does Mr Omtzig not share the need to do this zero measurement on all possible tax avoidance routes? Now it only monitors the introduction of taxes on those interest rates and royalties. That's about 22 billion, but we know that if one route is shut down, there will be another. Several measures will be taken in the coming years. Do we really want to measure whether we are effective, should we not ask for zero measurement of these other aggressive tax forms of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u96	I look forward with great interest to what the SP adds to the zero measurement. If there's anything else to measure, very much. In the debate on the zero measurement that I assume we will be conducting in a few weeks' time, I will look quietly at what ambition we can have, but I expect an initial appreciation of this. At the same time, we have a very strong eye for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for the larger ones, who provide jobs. We are strengthening this through lower VPB rates, which, by the way, are in line with other relatively medium-sized countries in the European Union. Portugal or countries in Scandinavia are all around 20%. We're gonna get up there a little bit. We are not close to Hungary, with 9%, or Ireland, with 12.5%. Mr. Chairman. There is also a significant step towards a much greener tax system. I would like to add one thing. Let me call it Teslacynism. Tesla has a very nice breakthrough technology. It is right that a car that is crucial to switch to electric driving should also receive a tax discount. But there are people here who think that discount should be pretty much unlimited. And that's exactly what Tesla got until this year. The example that was calculated by the Secretary of State showed that if the more expensive Tesla was leased for five years, you would receive €70,000 tax subsidy. $70,000. The Telegraaf wrote it, the Secretary of State had calculated it and the Volkskrant had to recalculate it to be sure. And yes, it was true. That subsidy only applies to a new Tesla. After five years, we're going to export all those Tesla's, as my colleague said. And what kind of lobby is going to happen here? A lobby to continue to subsidise this Tesla and not to make that second-hand Tesla accessible to the ordinary man without a lease car and certainly not to give €70,000 subsidy to people who cannot afford a car at all and thus cause no emissions at all. Yes, you're smiling a little, Mr. Nijboer, but how are you going to explain that $70,000 grant to people who can't afford a car at all? I don't understand anything. And then we get a lobby here. A rather assertive lobby, I say. This lobby is supported by Eneco, by Philips, by Arcadis, by the Association of Business Drivers, by Urgenda. In the report a number of Members from the Chamber wrote their questions about this. Although I see a number of amendments, fortunately I no longer see an amendment to maintain the subsidy as it is today. Mr. Chairman. The PVV already referred to it: we have spent 5 billion to 6 billion grants on an electric car. It is of course very nice that a billionaire, Elon Musk, is able to shoot a car into space, but if I wanted to promote space travel, I really think of ESA in Noordwijk and not of promoting the Tesla. This is not the main objective of the taxes paid in the Netherlands. The Court of Auditors has been very critical over and over again. And rightly so. Why am I saying this now? I do that because this is the first one in a long line. We're gonna get all these climate tables later. Those at the climate tables who think that green innovation is equivalent to infinite subsidies on those innovations have a completely wrong attitude to me. We are going to block that, not because we are against a fee, but because there is a bit of rationality in that remuneration. Environmental gains must be made for the subsidy provided. Here, CO€10,000 saved for every tonne had to be paid according to the calculations, while on the market it costs less than €50. That's a disproportion. Mr. Chairman. This leads to a total erosion of support for environmental objectives and to the use of state cash as an ATM by these lobbyists. And even worse, this hinders the greening in the Netherlands. Tesla already has a Model 3 below €50,000. That is the fourth most sold sedan in the United States, but it is not delivered in Norway or the Netherlands, where we completely subsidise the Model S. So we had a more accessible, a slightly more accessible, because €50,000 is still expensive electric car, but Tesla damn it to deliver it here, because they get too much subsidy on the big cars. You can't make it worse and worse. It's counterproductive. The sooner that cap is introduced, the better. If it had been up to the CDA, that percentage of 4 would have increased a little bit. That was not an increase to 22%, because I think we should continue to promote this, but we must promote it realistically. I expect one more apology or explanation from those lobbyists of Philips, Eneco and Urgenda whether they were really behind this lobby or if they just signed the letter. 'Cause this isn't free, I say. Mr. Chairman. In two legislative submissions, we have already discussed the legislative package before us in detail. A number of bottlenecks have already been removed or mitigated. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for the following answers and commitments. For people with a ZW benefit who do not have an employer, temporary workers, the employment discount and the IACK do not have to be recovered. For example, if the temporary employment agency has already deducted too much work discount due to the rise in the employment discount, it will not have to be reimbursed later on in the income tax return. In addition, the Secretary of State comes together with an execution test by the UWV and the Tax Administration. I would like to hear when this implementation test comes, because I do not have good experience with recovery and especially not with people with relatively low incomes, who are involved here. Mr. Chairman. The extension of the VAT-sports exemption was greater than previous years were already known. A subsidy is available from VWS for those companies that receive any subsidy and therefore do not meet the definition of "profit'. The cabinet continues to monitor whether this subsidy has too much or too little budget. The exemption will continue to apply to thinking sport as long as the unions are still in consultation with the Ministry. Care carriers with wheelchairs are also monitored to see whether the abolition of the refund scheme for the bpm will lead to undesirable effects. My colleague has just spoken about this. However, there must be sufficient energy-efficient alternatives available. Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State is finally going to ensure that Airbnb is also reasonably taxed. Now there are people who can rent their homes all year while actually paying no tax on them. The Secretary of State is now talking to the National Ombudsman; I have just spoken about this. The conditions for the enforcement of the recovery measures still come back to the Court in a pending procedure, so that it can be discussed later on whether it does not include taxpayers in good faith. The increase in gambling tax, which Mrs Lodders rightly spoke about, only goes on if the Remote Gambling Act is adopted by the First Chamber. The Secretary of State will consult with the toto and the trotting and racing. We like to hear what comes out of it, because I do have some different images of what the Secretary of State says and the letters we get. Mr. Chairman. Despite all these hours of debate, I still have a number of points that I would like to raise myself. The first is that we as CDA are very careful about making debts. We also attach great importance to resolving debts as quickly as possible. This is true for public authorities, as opposed to Italy's public debt, which is lower for businesses, consumers and homeowners, but also for students. The CDA voted against the loan system. Now that that loan system is a fact, I am interested in companies that have done their best to ensure that students do not incur debts. If I have to compliment Philips on what I just said, I can look at the Philips-Van der Willigen Fund, which until not long ago paid a scholarship for the children of Philips' employees who went to study. This involvement is particularly appreciated by the CDA: thinking about the next generation and in terms of working conditions not only looking at an expensive lease car but also at what families of their employees really need. We appreciate that social entrepreneurship. We have had a whole discussion in the written input and in the legislative consultation. Turns out what? The employer may reimburse the cost of studies for the employee's child. The child then qualifies as an employee on his own. I will leave the tax logic aside for the spectator, because there is no tax logic. But that does mean that money can be transferred directly from the employer to the child. It then falls under his own income. If the student has a small side job or no side job, he doesn't pay taxes and can just study and build up less debt. We think that is extremely good. It is also possible to even deduct the cost of studies under certain conditions. As long as the cost reduction is determined, this child can deduct the cost of study against what he earns in that side job. Thirdly, a common fund may also be set up by the employer and the employee to compensate for study costs. And that's important. That's important, Secretary of State. Because it's become difficult for people. I speak from my experience in my own environment in Enschede. I come across parents of students who say: my child goes to the MBO and not to the HBO, because there are still scholarships in the MBO. I also speak to parents of children who do not go to university, but to HBO. If you don't want to study technically, you can't study in Enschede, but you have to study in Groningen, Nijmegen or Utrecht. That's two hours of travel time. They do their favorite study not at the university but at the HBO, because they can still pay it as a home-living HBO and rather do so rather than pay expatriate large debts. That is why I think it is important that if these employers say 'we want to contribute', then that is possible. Does the Secretary of State want to work this out, also on the website, to show how this is made possible and is under the current government? Then we and the social partners will know in a collective agreement: we can do this and we cannot do this. This way we can make sure that the next generation can study as well. Mr. Chairman. Next item. This cabinet increases the maximum fee for volunteers. Ten years there has been no indexation, and now it goes from €150 to €170 per month, subject to certain conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u97	Mr Omtzig's heartfelt words about the next generations who need to be able to study. Now there is an amendment by Mr Stoffer of the SGP and myself to remove the higher interest rates on those student loans proposed by the cabinet. That's also neatly covered. Does Mr Omtzigt, also in view of the fact that his CDA congress called on him to do so, intend to support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u98	I am looking at all the amendments, but I do not think so. I would also like to point out to Mr Nijboer that the five-year interest rate on the capital market is currently zero and the ten-year interest rate is 0.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u99	Then I would like to point out to Mr Omtzigt that if you raise 200 million from students, they will notice it in the wallet, whether the interest rate is 0.5% or 0.8%, 1.2% or whatever number Mr Omtzigt is using. It's just a hold in the wallet of students, by a cabinet that insists that it stands up for the students. So I have a nice amendment. It's about the expat control above the beaming standard. If you apply that Tesla reasoning to those figures, to professional footballers and people with millions of bonuses, then Mr Omtzigt can say exactly the same. That's what pays for it. Surely the CDA could not refuse to support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u100	I come here with a very clear counter-proposal on how we can help students. That's not about 0.5%. I am seriously looking at how all the amendments deal with this, but the caricature that is made of that interest... It's not that big. It was a Minister of the Labour Party who introduced the loan system and abolished the basic grant for the HBO and the university, not for the MBO, I add. If this means that the Labour Party finds with retroactive effect that they did not do so wisely, so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u101	Mr Omtzigt says at the end 'the caricature of that interest'. I know another caricature, that of the accounting rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u102	Yeah, absolutely. I forgot about him. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u103	If you could help us and raise the rate of calculation because of the ECB effect, we can agree that there is a deficit, then there can also be indexed. That gives the Minister and the Secretary of State of Finance a lot of extra money. This allows you to pay the cost of adjusting that interest rate, as the CDA congress wants. I'll give you cover. Then we can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u104	There is no complete debate without rehearsing the calculation rate. I would like the ECB to stop its policy so that we can get a normal interest rate back. One of the major problems is not so much the calculation rate, whether 1% is too high or too low. The big problem is that we are here next year because it went wrong with Italy. Then monetary policy explodes. And the debts that have been incurred will then hang like a millstone around the neck of economic agents, from economic actors. I am too much to think of in English. That's the real big danger. Then we have a rather fine budget here, but because of the bubble formation elsewhere they will not be brought back. Then Mr Van Rooijen will say: but then we will be able to adjust the interest rate. We thought it would be temporary, but that temporaryity has been going on for a number of years now. If we had done that a few years ago, we would have indexed and we would not be able to index now. I prefer to adapt it through the front door, i.e. by adjusting monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u105	I fully support Mr Omtzig's speech when it comes to Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u106	That's right. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u107	Luckily, we do that together all the time. But does Mr Omtzig recognise that if what he and I fear were to come to fruition, namely that, in a kind of disaster scenario with Italy, too big to save, flight capital will go to Germany and the Netherlands, so that the ten-year interest rate, which has been for a very long time now only 0.4% or 0.5%, can sometimes get close to 0%, which means that the coverage of pension funds by Italy is still falling apart? And can you defend with me that pensions should be cut because Italy is making a mess of things? That's what I meant by the caricature of the accounting rate. The Dutch calculation rate has nothing to do with the calculation rate elsewhere in the world. In America, it's 3%. But the point is that the flight capital goes to the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u108	Your point is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u109	And the pensioners are the victims of that. Do you recognise that, because of what is happening in Italy, pensioners in the Netherlands, pension funds and, by the way, workers are suffering enormous disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u110	Pensioners, workers and holders of savings in the Netherlands, who receive very low interest rates, have a significant disadvantage over current ECB policies. Only, unfortunately, that disadvantage is not fictitious. It's actually because the government loans actually only pay 0.5%. Mr Van Rooijen is right. If it goes wrong, it could go even lower. The Swiss ten-year interest rate has already fallen below 0%. Switzerland can therefore borrow at 0% for 10 years. And that can happen in the Netherlands. By the way, I am pleased that this cabinet, through a last minute note by Minister Koolmees, has made moving from a pension fund abroad very much more difficult. I was also afraid that pension funds would think that they could easily go abroad. That would be a real disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u111	Very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u112	We talked about the Dutch and German ten-year interest rates and the American interest rates. Dutch pension funds invest for 90% outside the Netherlands. Is it logical to take the lowest calculation rate, namely that of Germany and the Netherlands, as a measure of the calculation of coverage rates when 90% is invested outside the Netherlands and three quarters outside Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u113	Yes, that makes sense, because Dutch and German interest rates are risk-free. Although Italian interest rates are also risk-free in the bank's calculation models, since the depreciation of the Greek sovereign debt, we know that the Italian government loans are not risk-free. That is also why I advise you or a pension fund to put all the savings in Italian state loans. If you put it in Dutch government loans, it's different. Thanks to the prudent policy of the previous cabinet, I say it in all honesty: we were not in this cabinet and the Netherlands can take a blow, while other countries in Europe cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u114	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u115	I wish it were riskless. If only Italy were riskless. Then we had a much less big problem here. Mr. Chairman. So the short question is: can the hourly allowance that can be paid also be indexed over the last ten years? This means that it could be €4.50 maybe €4.80. That's a little change in the manual, but maybe one that would be a little sympathetic. Mr. Chairman. I have not yet heard the mortgage interest rate deduction from my fellow Members, and all other deductions do indeed go at an accelerated rate of 37%. I would like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that the left-wing parties have tabled a counter-budget, that SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party have cooperated in this and that they have also honestly indicated that they thought our tax cuts were too large and that the tax cuts should be 2.1 billion less. They therefore believe that next year the burden should be 2.1 billion higher, by not allowing a reduction of 4 billion. They will not allow the VAT increase to continue either, so it will go away from each other, but there will remain a net burden increase in the left-wing counter-budget of EUR 2.1 billion. A gross €300 per household per year should therefore have been paid extra if there had been a left-wing cabinet. I also welcome the need for clarity. I see Mr Van Rooijen standing. 50PLUS wasn't on that counter-budget. It has a different counter-budget, if you want it worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u116	Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for supplementing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u117	May I remind you that your interruptions are going very fast now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u118	Yeah, you can. I can count, too. I think this is the fourth out of ten. I don't know why you're saying that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u119	Well, you've already had five with Mr Omtzigt. So this is your sixth with Mr Omtzigt and before that you had quite a few. There are very dedicated clerks next to me who are very neat and honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u120	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I still have to get used to the fact that the tax plans, which are the most important debates in Parliament every year...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u121	No, Mr. Van Rooijen, that's very silly. I am very generous in the interruptions, but this is your sixth interruption in two minutes. I just wanted to point that out. That's all. I'm gonna let him go, too. I'm just saying you've been over your ten interruptions a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u122	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I suppose so. I wasn't at the meeting either, but of course I accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u123	I also announced it very clearly and very nicely to you when the debate began.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u124	No, that's right, but I just want to point out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u125	So I'm giving you room for your umpteenth interruption. I'm just pointing out that it's your umpteenth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u126	Mr President, I would like to point out that earlier, but also recently, it did not prevent the number of interruptions being counted in a debate on the Tax Plan. But, of course, I'll stick to it. Then this is my last question. I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u127	Very lame. Mind if I tell you? I think it's very lame, because I'm giving you all the space to make another interruption. Let me just remind you of the attempt we made at the beginning to limit it somewhat. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u128	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I won't ask the question now. Then I'll do it in my own speech later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u129	No, no, no, no, no, no, no! Well, good, then that's your choice. That's not because I told you not to commit him. Mr. Omtzigt. No? Then Mr. Snels is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u130	I think it is very nice of Mr Omtzigt to talk about the counter-budget that we have made with colleagues from SP and the Labour Party. It's a pity he doesn't say nice things about it. In the case of purchasing power effects, the first is the distribution. You'll see we're talking about heavier taxes for millionaires and bigger companies. Secondly, the purchasing power effects must take into account their own risk, which is halved and eventually eliminated. That's $300. The groceries are also cheaper and lower rents are available. These are all burdens that are not so good at purchasing power. It is a pity that the CPB no longer really calculates counter-budgets, but these measures ultimately mean that lower incomes and middle-incomes are making more progress than in the cabinet. In the end, that's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u131	I'd have liked to have that full pass-through. By the way, the VAT increase is fully in the accounts. The other points are more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u132	Let's talk about this counter-budget of ours. That is the elaboration of the other choices we presented last year. At that time, at the request of the coalition, we had it passed on, including on purchasing power. That's when exactly what we said happened. We are indeed shifting the money from large business and wealthiest households to people who are a little tighter. That is the opposite of what this government is doing. So what Mr Omtzigt says here was passed on to purchasing power effects last year, and we achieved exactly what we wanted to achieve with rent reductions, with the elimination of one's own risk and with the fair distribution of energy taxes. This is a further development of this before 2019. So our coalition makes very different choices than Mr Omtzigt, namely rent reduction, lower care costs and a lower energy bill. In the end, that's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u133	Yes, with 2.1 billion higher taxes for families.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u134	For anyone interested: look at last year's billing that was on purchasing power for the result in four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u135	Thank you, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u136	In four years, it was over 2 billion. Then it was, I mean, about 4 billion, but I'm on slippery ice right now. For this year it is 2.1 billion extra taxes according to the CPB's billing, because you have to cover that extra expenditure with something. These are the extra taxes for families. I know that very conscious choices have been made in the counter-budget on corporate taxation. I am quite deliberately not saying anything about this, because I do not believe that we will be able to agree on this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u137	However, just to prevent people from being frightened by Mr Omtzig's sums. It is true that households are burdened with higher burdens. That's right, but they also get a lower risk in return. That's something the CDA had in its election program. That's what they feel in the wallet, only it's not counted as burdens. By far the vast majority of these burdens fall down on people with assets above a million. I'm just in favour of that. We want to substantially increase taxes on people who have a million. That is where more than one billion comes from; it is said that 1.4 or 1.3 billion. Of course, that's also in the table. That's an increase in charges, but not for ordinary people. They're gonna get a lower risk of their own. Those are indeed left-wing choices that we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u138	If we go further into these left-wing choices: not over a million, but above a tonne of savings, the capital efficiency tax in the counter-budget will be substantially increased by 1.4 billion. This means that there is an effective payment of around 3% of capital tax over a tonne. If you've sold your house and you've got the money in the bank and you don't get anything for it, then you'll pay 3% over according to the counter-budget on the left. It is not for nothing that the CPB warns that this will lead to massive objections and probably even problems at the Supreme Court. I can assure you that everyone will put it in box 2 in a savings-e.g. if you don't close box 2. Mr. Chairman. I come to the deductibility of alimony. The CDA remembers that we put the one-parent head in the child-related budget in the previous government. This meant a shift between the benefit and the child-related budget. But that meant that it was interpreted differently in the standards for alimony payments. This led to mass court cases and two years later finally to new standards that took this into account. Alimony will also be deductible, even if you pay at the highest rate, at 37%. That means that the alimony paid weighs more heavily on the person who pays the alimony. This also means that the judges will take this into account in the standards. I would not want the judiciary to have to deal with thousands of court cases between alimony and alimony. Could I ask the Secretary of State to enter into consultations to prevent what happened then? The D.A. has a lot of bad guys to catch, as you know, and they don't always get there either. The judges should not have to deal with this. Can there be standard accounting rules that take that into account? Especially in situations where divorce causes any conflict, it is much more pleasant to do so than to have to hire a lawyer. Mr. Chairman. There has been talk before about the committee on the future system. We believe that it should be introduced as soon as possible. We are indeed making substantial steps, but we still need substantial simplifications. The following questions would be examined. How do we deal with the difference between one earner and two earners? How do we deal with the supplement system? How do we ensure that it all remains enforceable for the Tax Administration? This time it would become not only a committee with professors, but also with people who have worked for twenty years at the Tax Office, at the surcharges or at the recovery. They understand whether or not certain plans are feasible. That is very important, because there is a lot of knowledge in the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. If you're a dispayer of taxes, you need to be tracked down. This Tax Plan, which is also in OFM............................................................................................................................................................. But those photos of license plates are destroyed after one day because of privacy issues. For a Dutch car it is enough to check within one day if someone has paid his vehicle tax. But after ten years of pressure, we still have the problem of many foreign drivers driving around here for a long time. A German or Polish driver can drive around here for a week when he is on holiday. As a result, he is not liable to tax on motor vehicles. But if you drive week in, week out, month in, month out in rush hour on the A2, we know you're here as an employee. Then you are entitled to a supplement, but you may also be charged for the vehicle tax. Is there no way to ensure that the people who drive around here for months with a foreign license plate are also photographed and that they are eventually registered and simply have to pay their taxes? Mr. Chairman. It's gonna be too much of a bar if someone with a foreign license applies for a parking permit. So you can not only use the photos you are allowed to use here, but also the parking permit. Go first, of course, to consult with the Dutch Data Protection Authority on how this can be done in a proper way, because this has to be done. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has also said that he is going to organise a European conference on flight tax. The flight tax is track one in the coalition agreement. Has there been a date yet when all 28 countries are going to talk about air traffic? I have asked two more questions about the non-contributory continuation and pensions. With regard to the non-contributory continuation and the increasing franchise in the pension structure of disabled people, the Secretary of State and I do not seem to be getting any closer together. I agree with him that it would be wonderful if colleagues in the profession were to be insure themselves massively for income replacement, but the practice is that they do not, because they think it is too expensive. Then it is an additional disadvantage that your pension is not properly arranged in the event of incapacity for work. Can the Secretary of State therefore state the usefulness of the demand for income replacement insurance and what would be wrong in his view if we simply dropped that demand? In the case of an increasing franchise, the problem is that the pension structure of the disabled person is falling. His retirement wage remains the same. The franchise is rising, so he's building up less and less pension over his disability benefit. The Secretary of State indicates that wages can be indexed, but this is not the case in many schemes. Moreover, it is interesting that insurers do not need to increase the franchise, so why should pension funds and not insurers? Can it not simply be levelled so that people who are long-term disabled can continue to build up their pension if they are insured in the pension scheme? I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the transitional right to increase waste taxes. This can be covered by the rising yield of less imports. Otherwise, we could still have very unpleasant environmental effects, which was intended to be an environmental measure. I have also seen an interesting amendment from the SGP on the exemption of asbestos. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to this. Let me add: it is also a matter of how to prevent, if you have a bucket of debris that you have to pay taxes on, throw in two sheets of asbestos and then get an exemption. 'Cause we know the garbage boys. There's a couple of crooks in there, too. Mr. Chairman. In the case of the CFC measure and next year's withholding tax, I would have preferred to see some stricter requirements. But I understand from the Secretary of State that not that much can be done. The rate limit of 7% can be raised slightly. My colleague from D66 has tabled an amendment on this subject which we have signed up for. But that limit cannot go any further than 9% due to the rate in Hungary. A tariff limit on an effective basis makes the scheme impossible and we do not seem to be able to do anything to stop European subsidiaries from moving in on the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. But neither do other countries, I ask. Could we take a look at Germany? Does the Secretary of State see any further possibilities, for example, to take steps at European level to raise the limits of anti-abuse provisions on a joint basis? How far are the European negotiations on the anti-abuse clause in the interest and royalty directives, for example? The Secretary of State refers to European rules when it comes to greater freedom for the Tax Administration to impose higher substance requirements, but within the EU you do not get substance requirements. The Secretary of State wrote yesterday that the CFC measure falls within the scope of the freedom of movement of capital. Can the Secretary of State further motivate that? 'Cause if he's covered in that, you're pretty much out of it. What article in the Treaty is that based on? Is it true that a considerable number of Member States do distinguish between EU Member States and third countries in the CFC measure? And is it true that this is possible because it is an EU directive from the Council? By the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u139	Before you continue, Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u140	Under this bill you can choose two models. You can take what is actually paid to tax, the effective tax, or that which is statutory, which you can also reduce by using tax avoidance. We have received an overview of countries taking model A, based on the effective rate: Denmark, Germany, Portugal, Greece, Sweden, Spain, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Romania, Lithuania, Finland, France, Poland. In short, about all of Europe. And do you know what Germany does? That puts the effective rate at 25%. So I think we can do a lot more. What is Mr Omtzigt's reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u141	I am also very interested in the response of the Secretary of State to these questions. Indeed, fewer countries choose model B: Estonia, Latvia, the Netherlands. I am very curious whether this is possible and I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u142	How is it possible that we take model B? We have adopted a motion that we must have model A and have a commitment on it later. How is it possible that the implementation legislation will again be messed with and the Netherlands will open the door again for tax constructions? The CDA shouldn't like that either, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u143	I have put forward a whole series of proposals here to make these tax constructions impossible. I am curious about the answer to Mrs Leijten's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u144	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u145	On the issue of tax avoidance, I have another question about black savers. Last year, we excluded black savers from the return scheme. The Secretary of State even wanted to abolish the scheme. I think it is important that taxpayers who want to correct a mistake in good faith can rely on a scheme as a guarantee that doing good does not result in a fine. Does the Secretary of State wish to examine whether the routes mentioned in the Panama Papers, i.e. for black savings with an e.g. can also be excluded from the return scheme? In doing so, can the Secretary of State improve legal certainty on the matter without retaining fines for taxpayers who are in good faith? For example, parents who have forgotten to fill in their children's savings account are not entered in the declaration because the Tax Administration does not always know which child belongs to which parent. Or to homeowners of a new building house who have filled in a building depot in ignorance in box 1 instead of in box 3. Technically these are black savers, but if the taxpayer is willing and has completed his tax return properly, it would be nice if he could improve himself without penalty. This should not be possible for the taxpayer who claims that he accidentally opened an e.g. in Panama. There's less chance of this happening to you by accident. Mr. Chairman. This year, two motions from me have been adopted that can help in the fight against tax avoidance. In one of them, I asked how to make it impossible for trust firms to provide a place of business for credit companies, so that we lay some of the responsibility for assessing where the border lies with the sector. Does the Secretary of State wish to take part in the drafting of the motion and can we get an answer to that as soon as possible? The other motion concerns the deposit of the annual accounts of major commercial foundations. It just needs to be done as soon as possible. My question, too, is: when is the effect going to be? There has already been extensive discussion of the Earnings Stripping measure. But when it comes to housing corporations, the consequences are not exactly crystallized. There has now been consultation with EDIS. But I am asking whether it is fair to include losses in the calculation of the ATAD, because those imputable losses could also have taken the housing corporations into account in the Vpb of future years. If the house prices are rising, well, that "if" at the beginning of this sentence I can remove it. However, a housing corporation does not in principle achieve any higher profit. After all, the rent is limited, and it is not intended that more rentals will be sold. So the balance sheet is rising, but no profit is being realised. How do we prevent housing corporations from building less homes than necessary? We would like an extensive calculation, which is also updated annually, of how much they are paying. The figures are fluctuating now, but we suspect that this will not be the last time we discuss them. I'm gonna move on to Earning's stripping. It is not yet clear to me why interest charges are being passed on, but interest income is not. Is the Earnings Stripping measure not intended correctly for net interest charges? Because if you look at the total profit, or at least at the profit over several years, it can be that less than 30% of the ebitda interest is deducted. So why can't the balance of interest charges be negative? Can the Secretary of State confirm that interest income can never be part of the ebitda base, because it is income before interest? That's what ebitda stands for: earnings before interest, taxes, dividends and amortization. Mr. Chairman. As a final question, I would like to know what is going on with the implementation of our long-standing desire to make funding from non-free foreign countries public to anbis. We'd like to have an update on that one. We've been working on that for about six years now. We're not getting there at this rate. So when do we get concrete proposals and a concrete bill that you have to publish when you get something from non-free countries, even if that happens indirectly? Because here too there are all kinds of indirect routes to transfer it from non-free countries to Germany, for example, and then hop! To the Netherlands. That's another thing we need to get out of. Finally, Mr President. You have seen that I have tabled an amendment. Currently, ice rinks, cabins of scouting and village houses pay the high ozb rate. That rate is two to three times higher than the rate for a house. This means paying thousands of euros a year for these facilities, often built by volunteers, and two to three times as much as for a house of comparable value. We believe that municipalities should have the option of having them pay the standard rate for housing. That is not a complete exemption, I would add, because these associations also use the local facilities of the municipality. There are already municipalities that find this. All they can do is to regulate a complicated refund scheme. We're gonna make them redundant. We just make sure that municipalities can make that choice. For each amendment, I propose that municipalities should also be allowed to charge the low rate for housing for these categories. And as an explanation, I would add that municipalities can limit this to non-profit associations, for example: they can exclude the paying football organisations if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u146	Yes, that would actually be the first question in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. This amendment is quite broad. I must honestly say that I think it is a very sympathetic amendment. Because when we talk about the local sports club or the hockey club...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u147	Yeah, I forgot to mention the hockey club for the VVD. Sorry! That slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u148	... or any other sports association or association... So the amendment sounds very...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u149	Sympathetic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u150	Sympathetic! That's what I said. But then I actually see a wide range of other social services there. And now my question to Mr Omtzigt is the following. Let's see. Other social interest organisations, for example a motorcycle club with its own clubhouse, would, according to the explanatory statement of the amendment, also be covered by this amendment. What is Mr Omtzig's view of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u151	I haven't seen a motorcycle club recognized as anbi or sbbi. I have seen motorcycle clubs that have not been recognised as terrorist organisations, but they are quite bad clubs, which have been dissolved as a result, even in my own municipality. So I do not think that is a great opportunity, but I am very curious if the Secretary of State thinks that there could be groups that should not be included. I do not see it at the moment, but otherwise I am prepared to amend the amendment, because it is really intended for sports associations. I forgot the playground clubs, if you like, and that category.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u152	I read that the amendment contains social interests for institutions or public utility institutions. This makes it wider than just the anbi settings. Then there's my second question. Mr Omtzigt himself made a point about the very big sports clubs. A municipality itself could make an exception, but does Mr Ometzigt agree with me that at the time that municipalities use this exemption, the account will be paid by the entrepreneurs? How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u153	I'll walk you through the questions one by one. I had to put the sbbis in because sports clubs aren't anbis. Sports associations are not a charity; otherwise we could deduct the contribution of sports associations. They are social-interested institutions. The same applies to playground associations. They are therefore only covered by that category and they are not a good cause. Nor do I argue that they should be because of the deductibility of the contribution. It's a local choice how you do it. It may and may not, but if Mrs Lodder thinks this is a problem, I would like to draw her attention to her own proposal. She says: you have to deduct the additional costs of solar panels. Even then you lower the total foundation on which you have the ozb. If you implement that, you must also be honest and acknowledge that the people without solar panels will pay for it effectively. Here too, it is a local choice how to divide local burdens between citizens, businesses and associations and foundations. We believe that, in tax terms, associations of this kind should be able to be treated in the same way as ordinary citizens rather than companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u154	My last point has not been answered, so I am waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u155	Sorry, I forgot. Don't you want to count this interruption, Mr. President? 'Cause if she doesn't, she's gonna walk right through those ten interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u156	The fact that the account is actually deposited with the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u157	The bill can be deposited with citizens or businesses, but I said that the same applies to the proposal made by the VVD regarding the added value of solar panels and heat pumps, those things that your PVV colleague liked so much. If they are extracted under the base, the total rate for the rest will also have to rise. That's a choice a municipality can make locally. She can do that here, but she can do that in the other example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u158	I think there is a difference in approach there, because the solar panels have added value, and this is the whole value. Then we're really talking about other amounts. I would therefore ask Mr Omtzigt to look again at his amendment and make sure that these very large sports clubs are left out of it, because otherwise there will be a very large bill for business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u159	I don't know what big sports clubs Mrs. Lodder is talking about. I am not only in favour of the small football associations, but also of the slightly larger football associations. It was not intended to include the Amsterdam ArenA. But I have to say that in recent years there has been no lack of funding from municipalities for paid football organisations. I live in Enschede, and I can tell you stories about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u160	A small moment of mourning around FC Twente I give Mr Omtzigt. I feel for him. My question is about tax avoidance. I consider Mr Omtzig to be someone with whom we can often hang out. I am also pleased that we have been able to table an amendment together, together with a number of other colleagues. He has said a number of times: I would actually like to be a little stricter; we are being limited, for example by the 9% profit tax rate in Hungary, which is actually a kind of upper limit. We cannot do anything else with countries that are just a few percent above that, which we may also question. Has the time perhaps come to agree on this minimum profit tax rate in Europe, given the concern I share with Mr Omtzig? D66 is long before that; the CDA is against it. Perhaps the time has not come for us to agree on a minimum rate for the tax on profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u161	No, we attach great importance to tax autonomy, because before we know it, we harmonise all taxes and we do not have a tax plan here, but only implementing legislation. I understand the problem here, but we are not yet in favour of a minimum rate. If you did that, you would also have to make it effective and not just on the nominal side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u162	There has been talk of basic harmonisation in Europe for a long time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u163	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u164	... something I think we'll find each other on to some extent. I understand very well that the Netherlands wants to maintain a high degree of autonomy in how we organise the tax system. I understand that very well, but I am really talking about a kind of lower limit to prevent that if we are four years ahead, that threshold may not be 9% but 4% because they have come up with something in Ireland or Malta. Apart from the fact that I understand very well that the CDA is different from D66, it's just a threshold, to put a lock on that door somewhere. Wouldn't that moment be approaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u165	I do not think that 90% need to go down when another country would decide to dive underneath, but I would like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u166	That's what brought you to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u167	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u168	Thank you very much. I'll suspend for dinner until 7:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u169	We will continue with the 2019 Tax Plan package and I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u170	While we debated a tax package with billions being thrown into the business community, the Slotervaart hospital finally went bankrupt: 100,000 patients in the cold, a lot of hardworking Dutch people, employees, in the cold. And there's nothing we can do. But oh, the climate of establishment. We're seeing something crazy in the Netherlands. There are more poor and more rich. We're coming out of a crisis, and last year, everyone would get better. And yet we see 27,000 people who live in poverty. That's 600,000 by now. They're families, that's where kids live. It's not going down, it's going up. And what increases even more, that is the wealth and the number of rich in the Netherlands. They are calculations of Quote, because the Central Planning Bureau always calculates everything for the lowest incomes and how they supposedly progress, while the highest incomes are no longer in those calculations. After 500 times the legal minimum wage, we don't follow it anymore. That's easy, but according to Quote, the 500 richest people got 11.6% richer last year. And there were also 4,000 millionaires added. Hey, 27,000 more households in poverty, but an increase of 11.6% among the 500 richest in our country. Something's going wrong here, you'd think. Wages in the Netherlands have fallen since 2002. In the crisis it shot down, but in neighbouring countries it didn't go so hard. In Germany, France, Finland, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States, the available income increased. How is that possible? I thought we all had to tighten the belt. Then where is the compensation? We see young people on a waiting list with a mild depression or with a behavioral disorder, which can be very annoying and which I do not want to trivialize, and with suicidal tendencies. They're on a waiting list for months to a year. The situation of children deteriorates if they don't get the care they need. Last week there was a demonstration at the Spui and there a SP colleague spoke a youth protector. I recognized the story. The youth protector said: I have to get someone in a closed setting so you're sitting behind the door asking for extension. Not because it is necessary for safety, not because it is necessary for treatment, but because there is no treatment site. We lock up children with a court order because there is no place to treat them. The location climate, that's what we're talking about today. We are watching television, we are all watching News, even the PVV; I am convinced of that. There is a crisis in the rule of law. Last night we saw the highest police chief on television admit that it's every day because of shortages. He called it choosing between a serious rape case and tracking down organized crime. Our police have to choose between two cases that need to be resolved. But the location climate! For who, anyway, for who? Last week in the news: 700,000 people live in ever worse neighbourhoods, just those areas where the VVD wants to introduce a double penalty, just the neighborhoods where the VVD wants to host status holders, because that land should not be too expensive, but also psychiatric patients who are no longer allowed to stay in an institution of the same VVD. In this worse housing situation of 700,000 people this cabinet problem stacks on problem. No problems will be solved. Problems are magnified, aggravated. At the same time, we have a debate on 4 billion a year, every year, to business. Politics is making choices, absolutely making choices. But this was just a list of last week's news. I'm not even talking about classes with 40 kids in them or more. I'm not even talking about those schools that close for a few days because there's a shortage of teachers. But oh woe, oh woe when you say that the public sector is on fire. Hospital's bankrupt. Highest police chief who says the police have to choose between rape and tracking down organized crime. Neighborhoods are getting worse, but we're throwing all the problems they don't want in Wassenaar. Politics is choosing. And that's what this cabinet does: multinationals over people and rich over poor. And also for nice talk, nice triads, because: with the purchasing power figures, it was good, wasn't it? Last year, too, the purchasing power figures were good. That's why we got 27,000 extra families in poverty. That's why the 50 richest people in the Quote get 11.6%. And now I have often said here that percentage is something other than pennies. Because 1.5% of the purchasing power of a little bit is even a little bit there. But 11.6% of the purchasing power of millions or billions is very much there. Will we agree that in future we will retain the purchasing power of the Quote for the poorest inhabitants of this country? Wouldn't that be a good idea? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about that. The dividend debacle. We can't get around it. We've talked a lot about it. A lot of people are sick of it. A lot of people had no idea what dividend tax was last year. And yet it stands for something bigger. We still have to give a little bit to the companies, don't we? A little, in this case, 1.9 billion. We don't listen to the police. They get a little bit more, but the hole that was beaten by Rutte II isn't being walked in at all, let alone extra money for the police. We are not doing anything about the consequences of the transfer of youth care to the municipalities. We all see that goes wrong. It is estimated that 750 million is needed there. No, we leave that on the local level and that's the city council's fault. Ah, but we need some more. Oh, we're doing 1.9 billion for Shell and Unilever. But when Unilever said, "I don't want that present at all," it only took a week to unpack that present, repack it and, in other gift paper, give it to the same business. Where are those teachers? Where are the students? Where are the residents of those neighborhoods, which also rents mainly, the 700,000? Oh, they get extra taxes, because yes, locational climate. Mr. Chairman. In the year 2000, companies made 100 billion profits. That went up to 218 billion last year. So that's more than a doubling. During that period, the tax on profits decreased. Now they're getting another tax cut. Year in, year out. Less money coming in to solve the problems in youth care, the police capacity. Un-believable. And all the time it's said it's about the locational climate. But a nice country to settle in, isn't it? It's a fine country to stay and be, isn't it? The tenants can't grab their bags and avoid the taxes, but they are punished for the tax-evasive large companies. The sick guy can't just say, "Oh, I'm not going to the hospital right now." But he does get higher own payments. It is always the same: those who can flee, those who can avoid, get the benefits, and those who can't, get tax increases. Because the bill isn't being distributed fairly. If you want to do something for the lowest income, you have to lower the lowest tax base. But this cabinet increases the lowest tax base. There are some concessions to cover up the fact that this is actually a very bad thing, but these concessions must be negotiated every year when a new budget is decided. Every year, they're a favor. The lowest incomes are given a little purchasing power. If not the highest income. They're getting tax cuts. That's where the disc goes down. So they shall not receive every year a grudge fought hard or heavily awarded. No, they get a right: a right to pay less tax. That's the reverse world, isn't it? Then there's the VAT. The VAT on ordinary groceries is increased: on vegetables, fruit, the train ticket, water, the sports club, on all kinds of things we need, which we consider important. That can be done by 50% up: from 6% to 9%. But what exactly does that do with people who don't have that much space in their wallet, I'm already asking the Secretary of State two, three, four times. "Yes, no, VAT revenues have been examined. They're knocking out the same thing about all the incomes. This means that they all spend about the same amount on VAT." But I asked for unavoidable costs. "Yes, I can't figure that out," says the Secretary of State. "We can perfectly calculate that everyone is making progress next year, but I am not going to calculate what is avoidable and not avoidable." And about the discussion about whether eating out once a year or once a week is avoidable, we can say something, but can you still feed your children later, give them breakfast or give them bread at school? Why don't you ask the families who can't do that right now? There are families who now have no money for three meals a day or a hot meal every day, or to let their child go on a school trip, or for the voluntary parental contribution, or a new bike, once again stolen. A new used bike; okay, we can do it with that too. Can the Secretary of State explain how he's gonna sell those people that spending on their messages is gonna go up? The tax on consumption is better than the tax on your income, it is said, because people only have to consume a little less. Mr. Chairman. Our party has always said that we are ashamed of the food banks, but they are becoming increasingly necessary. We have a necessary youth sports fund. We have a necessary youth culture fund. All those things that are linked to bitter poverty have not been solved. They have been deepened in the crisis and have not been resolved after the crisis. Now these people get both a VAT increase and no tax reduction. And the Secretary of State doesn't want to figure out how this goes for the necessary messages. I really don't think that's possible. He can calculate up to the decimal point what it takes to get companies here, but he doesn't even have the guarantee that they will invest the tax reduction he gives them again in employment or in research. Most of the profits in recent years have just been "hup" the financial world. That's what investments are made that aren't so good for our planet. No guarantees, no, but "o, we don't have to figure out the effects of the VAT increase." A scientist has done research into what it means to shift the tax on wages, of which you know in advance what you have lost, to indirect taxes. This is done via the VAT on your groceries, care premium or energy, which you have to pay out of your net salary. This scientist has said that this increases income disparities and also leads to higher socio-economic health inequalities. I understand that. Healthy life, healthy food, a sports subscription, it all costs money. And what do we do? Instead of seeing all of us, but certainly people with fewer salaries and more theoretical training, which is always linked to pay, seeing the gap grow, we are going to increase the burden on ordinary messages. That's playing with fire. We will not support this measure in order to compensate for the higher energy tax, the duty-free rate for the energy bill of 400 million, which is also bad for low incomes. The course of direct taxation towards indirect taxation is an ideological-political choice which increases income disparities and increases socio-economic health disparities. We already have a government that does not look after the 700,000 people in neighbourhoods that are getting worse and worse, but wants to dump the problems there. We do not have a government that looks after the needs of young people and the communities when it comes to youth aid. But, yes, you can choose. Mr. Chairman. In the margins of the great choices, there are also a number of measures in the eight tax laws we are discussing today that are negative. I also talked about it last Monday when we started this treatment. Then you ask for solutions. We will have the tax measures in September. Now, two months later, we must all have discussed them in writing and verbatim. We must have let our thoughts pass. This applies not only to us, but also to all kinds of civil society organisations. That goes for everyone. Only at some point will you see how that goes, because tax measures go against each other. For example, there is the exemption from the high VAT rate for commercial sports providers. What's the problem with that? Many municipalities have outsourced their sports locations to companies that rent it out for them, who receive the tickets. It's about swimming pools, about ice rinks, Mr Omtzigt pointed that out; the ice rinks, of course, are also also about the sports hall in the neighborhood. These are sometimes non-profit organisations governed by public law and sometimes semi-commercial organisations for profit. Organisations that are profit-making are required to pay the high tax rate. I think that makes sense. But we announce that measure in September. If they then sit down with the municipalities, they will find out that it will cost the municipality of Arnhem for example seven tons for next year. How's that gonna be paid back? With a more expensive ticket for swimming, with a higher bill for the sports club. Well, then I think it's kind of weird that this is happening so fast. Last year we had a problem with the VAT on sea-going vessels. We didn't think that was such a big problem, but it worked out very negatively for the Wadden Springs. We did not want the ticket for people who depended on the feathers, especially for the daily crossing of the Wadden, to be included. Then, as a Chamber, we said: we separate it for a year and instruct the Secretary of State to get out. That solution didn't turn out to be the way we hoped it would, but we did give them time. I suggest that we do the same with the sports exemption. We embrace the principle, but we are not putting municipalities, which are now approving their own budgets or which have already been closed, on the basis of facts. Also give the sector the opportunity to opt for a different structure which does not include them in the profit outlook. So give them an extra year. I'm asking the Secretary of State to go along with that. We embrace the principle, but we give them an extra year. This was also possible for the VAT on marine vessels, which was negative for the Waddenveren. Well, this is about a lot more people, a lot more people doing sports. We also want these people to work out, because in the end sports do not cost anything but brings something to our society. Unfortunately, there are no models for the calculation of the value of the product. How good it would be if there were. The next thing that turns out to be negative is the bpm on taxi transport, the motor vehicle refund. We drop them for taxis transporting children with learning disadvantages, people with disabilities or elderly people who want to visit someone. They depend on that transport. Now we say we want to green up. That's what we all want. We're very much behind that. But now we're going to exclude one small part of that refund. This can only be done by transferring the account to the user, who is dependent. We know that when you are sick or dependent, you do not belong to the richest group of our society, often do not have a buffer and often have less and less network that you can help and invade. And then we're gonna do it now. I asked the Secretary of State if we couldn't include this in the Car Letter 3. There are also measures for the whole industry, from vans to taxis. It would be so fair if they fell underneath. I'd be okay with that. I also saw a motion from D66 today, which was passed. It said that there should be a plan with the taxi sector to green up. If you think so, then you are not going to say already: for one part of the taxi transport, at least we will get the compensation out. So I am actually quite well-voted that we can do that, because last week it was a lot of parties that were worried about this. Mr. Chairman. We're also discussing tax avoidance today. Because yes, when you talk about taxes in the Netherlands, you know that it is about the tax haven for multinationals, for the rich and especially for those who can afford the expensive advice of the Zuidas. This advises them on how to organize their assets or their business structure in such a way that they can take full advantage of all possible countries and pay their tax rates and as little profit tax as possible. There are parties in this Chamber who think that's a great thing. My party actually thinks that's a big scandal. The tax base of the Netherlands is not something that we solve ourselves, but something that we solve by pressure from abroad and by rules that are made internationally and from Europe. And then those rules are made, and then we do not meet the wishes of the Chamber. If you have used all kinds of countries and their tax rates for years, then it is really strange that that is a reason to get tax cuts. And that is the case. We have an entire industry on the Zuidas for the structures used for tax avoidance. I would, by the way, think it would be a very good idea if that office space would be empty and we could then convert it to living space. That would be very good in Amsterdam: more living space and less tax disk. But of all these ways of avoiding tax, the Secretary of State has investigated one, namely the transfer of interest and royalties to other tax havens, where they have a statutory rate I'm trying to avoid these kinds of terms on the façade of the country. It says that you pay so much here, and you have all kinds of options to shoot underneath. But even that which they have nailed on the façade is for us really far below the border: 7%. The zero readings that were made of that slug are going to be 22 billion. That's a lot of money, isn't it? So that's tax that's not being paid anywhere in the world. You're just gonna be a consultant on these constructions. How would you be brushing your teeth in the morning? Would you then stand in the pub and brag and say: "I have lifted the world up again, boy! They can't go to school again. We are sure that there is again no investment in public services. Yeah, maybe on television there's a police chief whining that he has to choose between a rape case or organized crime, but I did my job"? Would the majority of the parties here be so proud that we make this all possible in tax terms, often advised by the same people who make those constructions? This is happening not only here, but also in the EU. Then, at last, legislation will be put in place to prevent tax avoidance. And who are they hiring to prepare these regulations? Exactly, those audit firms that sit at the table with all these multinationals to avoid that tax! And then you ask the Secretary of State: don't you think you should? "Oh, no, no. No problem. We do the same in the Netherlands." The people who write those structures, who use all those laws, also make the laws. That's how sick it is. But now we finally come up with a zero reading: 22 billion. Mr Omtzigt said: that is an amount I am afraid of. Would it not be a good thing, I ask the Secretary of State, if we also do a zero measurement on that other, large-scale and very aggressive form of tax avoidance through our country that we facilitate? What happens now? What is the result of international agreements, European agreements, or simply our own understanding that we should not do this anymore? 'Cause we're getting a lot. Mr President, I am sorry to have to use terminology for a moment: the hybrid mismatch at ATAD 2 is going to be soon, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We know that medicines are expensive, but this makes it possible for pharmaceutical Pfizer to pay a billion dollars a year less. It would be nice if we could calculate that for a while. This is only about Pfizer, but of course we want to know more. And we also know that profits from subtracting informal capital remain untaxed. That is another term, but we know that a food company from the United Kingdom, RB, manages to avoid 750 million per year through our country. Well, I'll give you two examples of two structures, and then I'll have almost 2 billion. That's 10% of that zero reading. It seems to me that, if we take a zero measurement of all these aggressive tax forms within the Netherlands, we can see first of all what kind of violent tax climate we have, which everyone should be proud of or be ashamed of, and secondly what our policy will do in the future. I told you, you're cutting off one pass, and all these wonderful lawyers and fiscalists on the Zuidas are immediately going to look for other goat paths to pay as little tax as possible. Because apparently that's something to be proud of. And why am I asking this? We have another example of a company that uses our country for tax avoidance. Part of that company, Inter IKEA Systems B.V., is being investigated by the European Commission. And right there, you can see that they have rerouted the one route they used to the next route to keep avoiding the same load. So let's not be naive. I ask the Secretary of State here: make that zero measurement also on those other constructions. Then we can really see if what this Secretary of State and this coalition are saying is "we're really tax haven-off" too. I'd like to help you get rid of tax haven. And then we go to today's anti-tax avoidance directive. If something is arranged internationally, we are therefore hunted down.The Netherlands still takes a shortcut to implement as little as possible. It was just about model A and model B. I'm really sorry, Mr President, but I'm going to show you a card here. It's not easy to see from far away, but everyone has also got it. It's very clear to see which countries have chosen model A and which countries have chosen model B. Model A is simply a more stringent variant, the clear variant. The Dutch Parliament has spoken out for this. In his February tax letter, the Secretary of State also stated that he would choose to do so. Or we can follow the Secretary of State with his vague form, which scientists say: we don't really know what it is, but at least it's not model A. Or we accept my amendment to the law and do it just like Germany, France, Poland, Sweden, Finland, Spain, Portugal, Italy and so on. And then the percentage. The Dutch percentage goes to 7. I've co-signed an amendment that's going to go to 10. As far as I'm concerned, we're going up even more. Indeed, the percentages are also set out and even with 10% there are only two countries among us: Hungary and Romania. And then we're still dangling at the bottom. The easier you make it to avoid tax, the more the Netherlands will be used for it. This Secretary of State wanted the Netherlands to be used less for it, didn't he? Do we really want to be in that list of Hungary, Romania and the Netherlands and only then the civilised world? Mr President, the intragroup. I tried to discuss this last week, in the technical section. Then, unfortunately, I didn't get any answers and in the last five minutes I had to ask my last question. I have received a written reply, for which I am grateful. In that statement, the Secretary of State says about the CFC measure that if you have control of a subsidiary in the structure of the Zuidas, and you want to say that the third country is excluded, you should look at the freedom of movement, and Mr Omtzigt also spoke about it, but not about freedom of establishment. Is that right? We hear noises that freedom of establishment can also be looked at and that there is even case law on this, because that is the case in Germany for a long time. It is therefore no longer appropriate to place subsidiaries in a controlled business structure in a tax haven for a moment in order to get rid of profits. That's the point. It's about preventing shortcuts. It is not a question of implementing this directive in such a way that the Netherlands is once again the centre of the shortcuts. Even if you say that purely the free movement of capital is applicable, then it is no longer possible to limit the free movement of capital by a decision of the European Council, by the Heads of Government, according to the functioning of the EU Treaty. Yes, and they are making the decision on this directive. So even if you could not take the freedom of establishment, and it is that capital, restrictions could still be imposed under Article 64 (3) of the Treaty. By the way, this is the freedom not to pay taxes, so what kind of freedom is it? That's how it is according to our analysis. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? And then the housing corporations. As a big company, you've been avoiding taxes for years. I just mentioned three, and we can put Shell and Unilever in there. There are all kinds of companies that do that, all neatly according to the law. And now it's getting a little contained, so you're gonna have to pay a little more. That's really pathetic, isn't it? For this, companies receive tax relief, but not housing corporations. They have not evaded tax and get this tax on their pants, but they do not get compensation. The compensation of 100 million on the landlord's tax was already agreed. That gift is given three times when it's up to this cabinet. The Secretary of State says: I don't really want this either, but I have to, eh; I have to from Europe, I have to, I have to. Then I asked: send me that advice. We get that often enough. The Secretary of State also acknowledges that he can send that advice well, but he doesn't want that. Did he even ask for that advice? Does it even exist? Or has the Secretary of State easily interpreted that something has ever been said about state aid, but has it not been asked for an opinion on this? I find it strange that the Secretary of State should mention a number of forms in which there would only be an exception to state aid, whereas the agreements he referred to in 2009 also stipulated that there could be activities of housing corporations, also under the motto of services of general economic interest. For example, it was agreed at that time that housing corporations could be exempted from the landlord's tax and therefore there would be no State aid. The Union has also accepted this. They can therefore be covered by the exception clause if the Dutch authorities put forward sufficient arguments and say: this is a service of social interest. The Secretary of State says in his letter that this exception clause cannot apply to housing corporations. Well, you can. It's okay. It's okay. It's a political choice to catch the tenant. The tenant who doesn't avoid tax will be able to pay tax for four months of his rent. Get over that in Wassenaar! Speaking of "sharing the account fairly." Worse than taking the tenant as a milk cow, I still find that this does not allow housing corporations to build. It has been calculated that due to all taxes they have to transfer to the State, a city as big as Amersfoort is less built in the coming cabinet period. We have eight-year waiting lists on average. And you know what they say? You can't have a house because there are status holders. No, you can't have a house because this cabinet takes four months' rent as tax. You can't invest in good homes, dealing with mold and new construction. No, it's just going to the state's bill. But, yeah, the climate of establishment, huh? The tenants can't escape. They can't avoid it. Finally, Mr President. I have talked about this before and I find it a bit unfortunate that the Secretary of State does not want to go into it. There are people who are injured by an accident or a medical failure. They have to sue for years before they have a compensation for that injury, because they can't work and may need adjustments to the house. That compensation is counted as capital, while it is a compensation for something you cannot earn. If there are now statements about injury, those people are sometimes compensated for taxes. But if you were diagnosed with injury damage before any surcharges were introduced or before your own account for the care was passed on, that was not taken into account. I've asked the Secretary of State for exactly how many people we're dealing with. How much would it cost to rule them out? There is already a system of exclusion in terms of not receiving rent and care payments and special capital. If you added everyone to that, what would that cost? What would it cost if all those injured people did not have to pay a capital tax on this? I asked you to do that. I can ask you one more time, and I'll ask you one more time. Can we know how many people we're talking about? Can we know what the batter is? I can imagine that he does not have the answer now, but would it be for the Secretary of State to give us an overview before 1 April or 1 May? I would very much like to take a political initiative on this. I would very much like to put forward a viable proposal to resolve this. This is more difficult from the opposition than the submission of an amendment on sports associations. I would like to thank the sports associations, but I believe that this is a more important task. But I can't even make the proposal because I don't have the numbers. I ask the Secretary of State: is he prepared to map this out and tell us about it before 1 April or 1 May, so that, if the government does not want to do so, we can at least take an initiative as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u171	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are again talking about the Tax Plan. I believe that we have been discussing this for an hour or 14 pieces of legislation. I have a few more technical questions, but as far as I am concerned, we are well in the second half of dealing with a very extensive package of legislation. Hundreds, if not thousands, of questions have been asked about this package and they have been answered by the Secretary of State. The people of the Ministry have also worked very hard on this in recent weeks, as well as on the preparation of the laws. They have been working on answering a very large number of questions that we first asked in writing and later in a very lengthy legislative consultation. I would like to begin by expressing my thanks for all the hard work. There's a lot going on. This Secretary of State has great ambitions. He himself sent a number of priorities to the Chamber. The D66 Group is very much in favour of these priorities. It's about actually making work pay, making more work pay more by reducing taxes on labour. It is also a question of tackling tax evasion. That really is a change of direction from this cabinet. Furthermore, the Netherlands is an attractive country for entrepreneurs and companies to operate, undertake, innovate and provide millions of jobs. It's also about greening. That is perhaps the task of the coming years. We must ensure that we tackle the climate crisis. It is also essential to tax pollution and the greening of our tax system. We are taking steps in this area today. Finally, it is also a question of ensuring a simple and feasible system. We often talk here about the Tax Administration and the problems in implementation. The package we are discussing today is a very significant and significant step forward on many issues. The point at which it may be the least is to simplify the system. I would like to come back to this in a little more detail. So, before I go through all the individual legislative proposals, I see a package of major reforms that the D66 Group really welcomes. We are really shifting the burden more from labour to consumption. I think that's wise. This leads to more work and ensures that consumption gets a price. Many have argued for this in the past, both within and outside this coalition. This reduces the burden on labour and increases the burden on consumption. We are greening taxes by making gas more expensive and electricity cheaper and by a whole series of measures. This could be a charge for the lorries that are here or by making the incineration of waste more expensive. After all, we want raw materials to be re-used rather than torched. The second thing we do is make our economy more resilient by taking a step in the treatment of equity and debt. That's a really important start. It's been a long time since this Chamber's been paying attention to that. I happen to be looking at Mr Nijboer with a slanted eye. He's always drawn a lot of attention to this with D66. We are taking steps in this respect. It is not a luxury to make the economy more shock-resistant in times of Brexit and Italian deficits. Companies and people need to become more resilient. That's important. This is reflected in the measures we are taking, for example when it comes to mortgage interest relief. It's being considerably reduced. This measure may not always be popular, but it is very sensible. If you do that, you have to do it right when the housing market is thriving and not in a crisis. As far as I'm concerned, the timing is good. We also ensure that we broaden foundations. With these revenues, we can lower prices. We do this, for example, in the case of income tax by making the deductions deductible at the rate of the first disc. I think that's sensible and honorable. When you look at companies, we make sure that there are severe restrictions on all kinds of deductions and trick boxes. Mr Omtzigt mentioned a few in company taxation, and I would also mention the reduction of interest rate deductions and innovation boxes. That's where we're doing some serious restrictions. This is a total of 3.5 billion in profits tax alone. And yes, then we also do something about the rates for Dutch companies. My party is very happy with that. I think that is not only very sensible, because the use of taxpayers' money is a lot better than the abolition of the dividend tax. I think that this money can be used in a reduction in the rate for companies that can benefit less from it. I would even dare to make a statement on the widening of tariffs. Of the 4 billion tariff cuts, 3.5 billion is simply generated by the closure of all kinds of structures. The closure of these structures particularly affects the largest companies that often use much more of these types of constructions. As a result, the reduction is much more likely to reach the small entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u173	Before you proceed, Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u174	I am curious about the underlying analysis here, because it is mainly about letterbox companies that pay nothing. There's 4,000 billion going through the Netherlands. It is also about all kinds of tax structures that are used. Housing corporations get 363 million to choose, just to say something practical. So where does Mr Van Weyenberg base on the fact that multinationals are the ones who are going to pay for this? They're paying the Vpb, aren't they? At least, that's what they're saying. Or aren't they paying for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u175	Sure. However, I dare say that the broadening of the base, for example such a reduction in interest rates, is particularly much larger companies than a small SME. I'll be back in a few minutes on tax avoidance and mailboxes. I was just talking about the income tax, the corporation tax. I see that out of the 4 billion in lower rates, 3.5 billion is raised by reducing deductions, by limiting the Innovation Box. I think that's wise. I wanted to ask about the housing corporations, but I'm happy to do that now. I see that a number of measures, including in the review of the dividend tax, also mean that, according to the government's figures, they will pay less and no more taxes in the coming years. But I've also seen, like you, that the housing corporations count very differently. Now we have just agreed rules of the game with each other and the Secretary of State abides by them. But I'm assuming he's gonna keep his finger on the pulse in the near future, to keep a close eye on the burden development for housing corporations as well. I can well follow the figures presented by the cabinet, but the difference with the expectations of housing corporations is indeed large.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u176	A word about the relationship between SMEs and large companies. I am a big supporter, a fan, of treating equity and debt more equally. I have already praised the proposals and will do so again in my term. That's especially because you're fighting these debt levers. Who does that? Private equity. That's what companies buy up. It's not multinationals they buy up. Yes, quite occasionally, but they just buy up a lot of SMEs. What are you handing it out to? 3 out of 4 billion goes to the highest rate in the Vpb. So I think the whole division is weird. SMEs are crying "whore!" And then that's fair. The ordinary SMEs will receive a VAT increase. I don't understand this at all. So I'd like you to back this up, otherwise I just can't follow your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u177	I think I asked the Secretary of State to reflect on my view that this is indeed the case. I think that a small SME company with 20 to 25 staff, which makes three tons of profit... And be careful, then, it's already in the high Vpb fare. Most companies that pay that high rate are companies of this size; not that small group of large multinationals. I think those companies made much less use of group escapes, innovation boxes and all kinds of complicated constructs than very much larger companies with a lot of tax advisors. That was my assumption, I asked that question. And again, above all, I am extremely pleased that with the abolition of the dividend tax, where the benefits went to the shareholders of a number of large multinationals or often governments, that money is now simply going to stop in Dutch business, big and small, which creates jobs here. More than 6 million people work at a company where just money is made. I think that's something to be proud of. Mr. Chairman. I was saying that we are not discussing a system change here today. But it is a major reform. I think perhaps the largest of the last 15 years, since the modernisation of the system in 2001. Well, that's important. And I think it's okay if we realize that we're not there with that. Because we have a system that needs greater maintenance at the same time. In the formation we also considered that the Tax Administration could not have handled all the major reforms at that time. But I am glad that the Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to work with building blocks for a more real system change, starting with a letter early next year. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. We are now taking very important steps, but we must not stop thinking about a system that is simpler and more explanatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u178	Mr. Chairman. I was just having a drink of water. I was listening, and it was about my favorite subject: tax avoidance. I do have a question for D66 about exactly how it's gonna go down. We do not have a justification for who is going to pay more and who is going to pay less taxes, but we do have one zero measurement now: the effect of taxing interest and royalties. But we have, as I said, much more aggressive structures. Wouldn't it be very good to have such a measurement done on all these aggressive structures, so that we can see if we are really going to have tax haven off, or if we cut off a goat path and then create new ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u179	Those withholding taxes are a lot about the flow. You mentioned the 22 billion in your own contribution to tax havens and low-taxing countries. As with other constructors, I'm always curious if we can get a deeper insight into that. I am therefore asking this question with you to this Secretary of State. I always find the lake in the picture of what happens to the money flows through the Netherlands interesting. We may also occasionally make different choices, but in my opinion we play on the same side of the football field. I am curious as to what exactly you want to know and whether that is possible. I'd like to explore things that are still going on, because we've done a good job of scorching things up. I am not only going to listen with interest to the answers of the Secretary of State, but I am also curious about what you really want to have examined. 'Cause I'd like to get a precise picture of what you're thinking, so I know where we're gonna look for the pins in the haystack.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u180	4.400 billion a year: it's immeasurable, you can't think of it, but it goes through our country. A very small part of it has been investigated and that is good. We are going to take a first step on that and that is also good. But that's not all. I know D66 as a party that wants to know where we stand now and what the outcome of the policy is. If D66 says this cabinet is going to do something about tax avoidance, it should be able to support a zero measurement of the greatest aggressive structures. And you ask me the list which one to examine. I would say: we take the list as described in the rule book.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u181	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u182	Then I think you got them all. But the principle should be that you need to know from more of these aggressive structures what is happening and where you want to go. A lot of research is already being done; we know that too. It should therefore be possible to do a zero measurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u183	Yes, but I believe that in my answer I did not argue anything other than that I was curious. I would like to zoom in on some really aggressive structures. This has now been done in the very interesting research we have just been talking about. It detected flows of over 100 billion in total, of which 22 billion went to low-taxing countries. That's as interesting to me as you are to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u184	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u185	Moreover, I come back extensively to ATAD and tax avoidance. I myself was at the building blocks for a more real system change. As far as D66 is concerned, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed. How can we further tax greening? How do we really make it easier? How do we pump less money around? What do we do with the fact that now a large group of people do not pay taxes and that is why we cannot actually achieve them with burden relief measures, the'silvering problem' in jargon? We also discussed this extensively in the legislative consultation. But also: what else are we supposed to do in box 2, with the director-large shareholders and e.g.? I specifically asked the Secretary of State to take another look at what is happening there. We now take a current account measure against excessive borrowing to yourself from an e.g., whereby you postpone tax and you lend the money that stays in the e.g. to yourself. That raises all kinds of questions about exactly what is happening there. I'm very curious about that. I welcomed the Secretary of State's commitment to make this an important part of thinking about the new system. Even if only because two previous advisory committees, the Van Weeghel Committee and the Van Dijkhuizen Committee, have specifically asked for box 2 attention. We are doing a number of things now, but as far as I am concerned there is still a lot of homework to do in the future. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is not only going to loosen the building blocks but also try to bring them together: what kind of system could you imagine? That was not done overnight by him and his people, but I find that extremely interesting. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the specific laws, starting with the Tax Plan, after all, the main course. There's a lot of beauty in that. Measures are being taken in the area of income tax, so that more work and more work are paid more. Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Lodder talked about this, among other things: marginal pressure is falling sharply, for people with a moderate income, but also for the least-earning partner between €20,000 and €35,000, for example. For example, going to work or working an extra day is really going to pay more. I think that's wise. At the same time, we ensure that the balance between two and one earners is good. I think this balance is important, but a number of colleagues in the coalition are even more important if possible. That is why we have found good compromises with each other. I also think this is the strength shown by this Tax Plan: by working together, we have been able to achieve goals of, for example, my party. In fact, we make sure that it is also often for the least-earning partner................................................................................................................................................................................................... They're left with more. And we're also doing something about economic independence. We have been able to combine it with the care of householders, who lived especially with the CDA and the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. That kind of compromise cheers me up. I have said that before, but now that we are really dealing with this legislation today, I would like to repeat it. Mr. Chairman. For next year too, you will see that purchasing power is increasing. You can see below that this package leads to 5.7 billion in lower taxes for people. This is because of government policy: it would not have been the case if the cabinet had not chosen this package. You can also see that income inequality is declining as a result of the coalition agreement. That's what the Central Planning Office says. Mr. Chairman. It is true, and we have talked about this extensively, that the cabinet is partly bringing forward relief. But that's about big money. It is a question of money that could not have been received until 2040 or 2045, and that has now ended up in the wallet of the people every year for the next few years. The Secretary of State mentioned an average of 3.5 billion over a period of 22 years. That adds up to 77 billion. Without fixing the exact amount, I say: that's big money that we're bringing forward. People really notice that, and that really helps people. Mr. Chairman. During the course of the treatment, we discussed it very specifically. It's a bit of an abrupt transition to take another look at the taxation of, for example, Airbnb revenues. The Secretary of State has promised to look again closely at how we deal with the temporary rental of our own property in income tax, and whether this should not be a little better involved in taxation. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u186	I have a very simple question: how much does 4 billion profit tax cuts cost for 30 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u187	Well, if you did, it would cost a lot of money. But I can reassure Mr Nijboer, because of this 4 billion lower profit tax, 3.5 billion is raised by broadening the base. So it's only half a billion dollars. And I understand the point that Mr Nijboer wants to make, namely that you can always add amounts to the infinite, and then it seems very large. The reason I'm making the point myself is because there was criticism, including from you. It was: yes, but the cabinet is raising money. And I wanted to argue on this, and I still think that bringing forward relief means that people would not get an amount until 2042 or 2045, for the next few years, every year. And that has value, too. That is the background to my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u188	But there is no difference at all between Mr Van Weyenberg and myself about the fact that the cabinet brings forward relief, and that it is ultimately €2 per person per year in 2042: 36 million. There's no difference of opinion. I'll just find some of the trick to that... Well, "to hide" I don't want to say. But I do find some of the trick to "explain" that in Mr. Van Weyenberg's way, because then you have to put that against what happens with the income tax. If you do that for 30 years, times four billion, you have 120 billion. That's a lot. And you have to watch out for sums here. I've been paying attention to that, so 120 billion in 30 years is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u189	The multiplication is correct, but the fact that there is 4 billion is wrong. It's half a billion dollars a year in lower income tax. But again, the point is: we bring forward the relief that people only get later. And it is a lot of money, that is 3.5 billion a year, and that is fine! For a long period of time. I think that's valuable. I think a lot of people are happy about that. And suppose I would ask Mr Nijboer: shall I start paying you €100 a year in 2042, or shall I start doing so tomorrow? Then I think I know what answer Mr Nijboer is going to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u190	I have a different math. I've shared that with the Prime Minister before. The abolition of the dividend tax amounts to 2 billion. I told him that in 50 years, for example, that would be 100 billion. And then he said, "Yeah, I can do the math too." You can fix that, too. But that's what we're talking about. Do you acknowledge that if you had abolished the dividend tax, that would have been 40 billion in 20 years and so on? And in 50 years, 100 billion net? 'Cause that wasn't a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u191	Yeah, so it's a good thing we didn't, I guess! But, of course, what we have done in relation to the coalition agreement is to spend it in a very different way. Indeed, there will be a further reduction in tariffs, for SMEs by one percentage point and for companies that make more than two tonnes of profits by one percentage point. But we have also released 100 million for housing corporations and 200 million per year for lower labour costs for employers. There is another 100 million SME envelope. We have solved a piece of rubbish in the amounts relating to the CO2 tax in the energy sector, forgetting that we are going to close the coal plants earlier. As far as I'm concerned, that amount is now being spent a lot smarter. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at an extension of the VAT exemption for sport, a subject already mentioned by a number of colleagues. There are a lot of concerns about that, because is this going to hit the sport? The Secretary of State has said: no, there is a subsidy on that. I think it is really very important that the Secretary of State has promised this, but I repeat it here because I think it is so important that this should be looked at carefully in the near future, because this should not lead to more expensive tickets for the pool or even a reduction in the offer of sports. It should also be ensured that the money that will be available to the sports ministry, the VWS Ministry, fits the disadvantage that is currently being encountered, so that it will not become apparent that there were actually twice as many disadvantages than those for which subsidies had been created. Moreover, the Secretary of State has said that my concern that there would be oversubscription for the subsidy pot, so that there are many more applications already, is not correct. That's good news. If he puts that in the written answers, I take it from him, but does he really want to see what is going on with the exhaustion of this pot, so that it doesn't happen so much later that the sport eventually gets worse? Because that's what I think we want to avoid in the whole room. I have one very technical point, if you will allow me, Mr President. The Secretary of State continues to say that he needs one more article that is Article 11.4 for the fans in this room to counter certain VAT constructions. I would ask him to explain that one more time. Why is that indispensable? There are people who say to me: then you are actually stricter than you need. Does the Secretary of State say, "No, I have to, 'cause otherwise I'm gonna keep all these very complicated tax constructions in the municipal domain that I don't want?" I see things happening there and I think he could and should take us with him a little more. This is where thinking is at stake. There shall be no movement therein. That meant something for how tax-related it was handled. The Secretary of State has indicated not only to maintain the regime for the time being, but also to see if we can do something with it for the chess association, the card association, the bridge, the checkers. He was trying to see if he could meet this kind of sports club because that's what I think they can do in a different way. When does he expect to be able to tell us a little more about that? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the other fiscal measures, another bill, I would like to confine myself to the privacy when flashing to check that people have paid their vehicle tax. Of course, my group considers it crucial that the Secretary of State has now chosen a solution whereby those photographs are kept for no longer than a day, so that privacy is safeguarded. In doing so, he has chosen a solution approved by the Personal Data Authority. My group welcomes this. Should any other measures be considered in this area, the test of privacy and the approval of the Personal Data Authority will always be an important element for my group. It is a hoop that this Secretary of State must jump through, as he did with this proposal. Mr. Chairman. We have also often talked about the gambling tax. This is about ground bound. It's all very technical, but the bottom line is that the Secretary of State has to compensate here again for an adjustment in taxes. That tax increase is considerable, as Mrs Leijten said. That led to big headlines saying that this would be the end of the Toto. The Secretary of State has strongly contradicted this, but I would like to call for one more specific attention to be paid to trotting and racing. That sports group doesn't have it easy, but if I understand correctly, the compensation doesn't go back to this group. It's not on the list, but it gets hit. Does the Secretary of State see any chance of talking to them? Is there anything else you can do here? The fact that he has to adjust these taxes is a good thing for my group, but it is a pity that there is a lot of compensation, but it is not easy for him to do the trotting and racing, because it is not easy for him to do it. They're really worried about their survival. We're getting letters about that. They're rather "that's what the Secretary of State has also written "in search of new models." Is there another conversation with them and is there still something conceivable here? I don't want to raise false expectations. I admit right away that I don't have the solution, but I'm still worried about this. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the business package. We were talking about the dividend tax. Even if we do not abolish the dividend tax, it is a tax which still passes generously in every debate. Of course, I am fine with that, even if only to repeat that I think that the cabinet has now opted for a smarter package for SMEs. It ensures that people can be recruited. There is investment in the Wbso, in innovation. This is a package that really lands with Dutch companies, where millions of people work, and not with foreign shareholders of a number of multinationals. That 1.4 billion we put away smarter. That leads to a package that my group can very well carry. I understand very well that there are parties here that make a very different assessment when it comes to the Vpb, but I really think what is now there is a very significant improvement on the abolition of dividend taxation. I believe that we have had about ten debates about this. Mr. Chairman. Then we have the fiscal greening. There's a lot of beauty in that. I mention the higher tax on waste as a step towards the circular economy and the leasing bike. I admit that it is a more specific measure. This makes it more attractive for people to go to work by bike. We're going to tax trucks through the Maut. That's not in here. And there's gonna be a plane tax. The D66 Group also prefers it to be a European measure. But honesty commands that it is unlikely to go at the pace necessary to reach the timetable of the coalition agreement. The Secretary of State has already said that he wants to come forward with a bill next spring. I am glad that we will continue with the European conference that Mr Omtzig has asked for, to look at, for example, a VAT on airline tickets: what can we do there in a European context? Today, the Chamber also adopted a motion from my colleague Jan Paternotte (35000-XII, No. 46), which calls on the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State to see if it can amend the Chicago Convention. That treaty has not imposed any tax on kerosene from aircraft for a very long time. This still means that people pay more excise duty for fueling their Fiat Panda than Emirates has to pay at Schiphol Airport for 300,000 litres for an Airbus A380. Then you can no longer say that the polluter pays. So we are really looking forward to the European Conference, which, as far as we are concerned, still has to keep that European rail alive, when we are really going to introduce that tax at national level on noisy and polluting aircraft. At the same time, we are going to look around the world to see if we can do something about the taxation of kerosene through the Chicago Convention. It's about time. Mr. Chairman. What we're doing today isn't the end point when it comes to greening. We are working hard on a climate agreement. That is extremely important. In December we hope to be able to take a major next step there. There are, of course, all kinds of other measures on the table, whether it is about supporting the transition to electric transport or I have to say 'zero-emission transport' or, for example, a further shift in the taxation of gas and electricity, making gas even more expensive and electricity cheaper. Mr. Chairman. The greening package also includes the bpm taxi transport measure. That is a measure which my group supports. It's about the transition to clean taxis. I think it fits in with the simplification at all. But there is a concern, the concern that there is actually not enough scope for action to make the switch to such a clean van. We have debated this at length. The Secretary of State also warns us about solutions that allow you to get all kinds of tricks again with the quick and slow putting of rails in a van, which also becomes completely unenforceable for the Tax Administration. But I will table a motion on this in the second term. I already know that a lot of colleagues want to sign with us. Thank you for that. With this motion we want to say: really keep your finger on the wrist here, so that the people who depend on that transport will not suffer. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to electric cars, we will also have to look at the second-hand market. We're talking a lot about the new cars. There's been a lot of talk about the Teslataks. The Secretary of State has told us: no, those cars with a wide range are coming now. We shall follow that very closely. I also hope that the Secretary of State will follow that up, that it will not suddenly become apparent that all these cars are not available and that we will ensure in the climate agreement that the second-hand market will actually get started. We don't want those clean cars to leave the Netherlands once they get out of the lease.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u192	Let's talk about the transport of target groups. We should not postpone this, even if it is only about 2% of the market that should drive greening. We're gonna monitor it. That's a word for keeping track. What are the consequences? And then, that's how I ask D66. What happens when we see that people can no longer be transported? So what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u193	You were working on your own preparation. I'm going to show you the motion; I hope you'll join us. As far as I'm concerned, we're really gonna get the Cabinet to take action. I think that's very serious. I think we are giving the cabinet a clear mandate. It's a little clumsy talking, because I haven't filed the motion yet. I brought it up myself, so it's my fault. We will have to make sure that the people who depend on this never suffer. That's exactly what's gonna be in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u194	Today we adopted a motion from Mr Paternotte, among others, co-signed by my party, asking the government to agree with all parties involved, preferably in the form of a green deal, on a timetable for zero-emission taxi transport. A good endeavor. But for the most vulnerable users of taxi transport, at least their carriers, we will only abolish the concession for a moment. That's the wrong order, isn't it? I can't keep track of the consequences. The minute you keep track of people coming home, they're already at home and we can't compensate them anymore. What's up with that? What amount does D66 reserve for that? Is she prepared to actually reverse these consequences or is it all just a little free and for the outsider: yes, we do want to know what the consequences are, and by the time there are consequences, we are going to discuss the consequences. I know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u195	That is because Mrs Leijten already assumes that things are going wrong. I have heard the Secretary of State argue, and I believe I follow him in that, that it is not. There are all kinds of obligations to offer care. I've heard the Secretary of State about that, too. So I don't share that concern. As far as this motion is concerned, I would say: do one thing and do not leave the other. In group transport, there are many administrative agreements to try to drive zero emissions throughout the sector by 2025. Let's back that up. I think it is our job as a chamber to keep a watchful eye on the consequences of our policy. I know that Mrs Leijten agrees with me. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the issue of tax avoidance and evasion and, above all, its approach. This cabinet does a lot of work on that. That is what I am saying here behind the Chair, but that is what the Director of the OECD says, for example. He said this approach sounds like music to his ears. And that has been different when it comes to the policy of the Netherlands against tax avoidance and evasion. Much has already happened and there is still a tightening up and renewal of the ruling practice. We expect the latter soon. I am very curious to hear Mr Azarkan's motion: will the inspector have a greater role to take into account these relative substance requirements? Are these real activities or is this a gratuite spill of money? I'm looking forward to it. The fact that much remains to be done is clear. The Netherlands Bank recently carried out a small investigation which showed that 94% of the well-known letterbox companies did not employ any employees at all. Are we really gonna hit it with what we're talking about here today? Roughly 80% of letterbox companies are part of a group of companies without substantial economic activities in the Netherlands. If that is the case, it seems to me that you are simply falling short of the requirements that are being introduced here today in the implementation of the European directive against tax avoidance. We're gonna monitor this properly. Mrs Leijten asked whether we should not also look at other very aggressive constructions. Yeah, I'm really curious if there's two or three more of them we need to start somewhere being constructions that we can strengthen our knowledge so we can fight them more effectively. Mr. Chairman. For the CFC measure, the cabinet included in Model A a minimum limit of 7%. That surprised me a bit, because in earlier, also official, notes were sometimes mentioned 10%. Now it appears that this 10% is no longer possible, because Hungary in the meantime reduced the Vpb tariff to 9%. Because of internal market rules and the free movement of capital, it is complicated to sit below. I still think that this is quite unsatisfactory. It is also well known that my group would really like a European minimum Vpb rate, a minimum rate for profit taxes in Europe. But that is not yet the case, and that is why I have now tabled an amendment with a number of colleagues, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins and Mr Snels, to at least increase that 7% to 9%. We can and then at least set a new threshold, which is another 2 percentage points higher. That's gonna help. I do not expect miracles from that, but I hope that it will make us lower as other countries, if we look at low-taxing countries, in this way the measure can be tightened up a bit. Is the Netherlands actually the only country that suffers from the fact that it is so limited by such a Hungarian tariff, for example? I ask the Secretary of State if other European countries are not as grumpy about it as I am and perhaps several colleagues in this Chamber. More generally, I believe that even after the adoption of this ambitious package, we are still far from there when it comes to tackling circumvention. The implementation of the multilateral treaty is still coming down, as far as I am concerned, a very effective instrument against the race. We will soon have a second European directive against tax avoidance. The minimum capital scheme is being considered. We get the withholding tax on interest and royalties at the beginning of next year. That is the beginning of next year, I ask the Secretary of State. Work is under way on the UBO register. It is clear that, as far as my group is concerned, the approach we are discussing here today is not at all an end, but a very good starting point. This applies more broadly to the package of tax measures that will make work pay more, that will reduce the burden on labour, that will make us green and that will make us an attractive country to take on, but with which we will end tax avoidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u196	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u197	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I actually have the same question to D66 as I asked the VVD. Of which proposals from opposition parties does Mr Van Weyenberg say: we have already seen dozens of them come by, which seems to me to be something that benefits me, which makes policy even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u198	I have tabled an amendment, together with Mr Snels and others, to begin with. So that's what I think is already working together. That is not your question, but that is also important to me. I also hope that we can work well together on a number of motions. I am going to look very carefully at the proposals that lie ahead. I have heard Mr Snels say something that I find interesting. It's still complicated, but I'm gonna take a good look at that. You have an idea about the transfer tax, which I think goes a long way. I am going to look closely at your proposals and those of my fellow Members. Mrs Leijten asked whether we should postpone something for a year. I'm gonna think about that. In this way, after this debate, I am going to make my assessment, but I do not think you are going to blame me for wanting to listen to the Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u199	No, but of course we're already on the third of the four days. So the Secretary of State has already said a few things and there are many amendments and proposals, for example Mr Stoffer's amendment of the SGP and myself to get that interest off study loans. D66 is a real student party. Stopping the expat control at the beaming standard is also something that should be good for you. Is that something that might have a chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u200	I find it complicated, to start with, because I've just made agreements with the coalition partners about that interest rate. By the way, as Mr Omtzigt said, it is very low at the moment. I do not think that is relevant to the political direction you want to take. But I understand. Then there's the expat arrangement. I do sympathise with what is there as cover, but in the negotiations on the coalition agreement we have the limitation of the expat regime after extensive talks, I can tell you how designed it is to reduce the duration in particular. I hope that Mr Nijboer understands that I also feel bound by agreements I have made with colleagues, as Mr Nijboer remembers from his own time of government responsibility. I can tell you one thing: at least my group will not support amendments that may still be tabled to implement your counter-budget on the tax increase. I have not yet seen these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u201	That's it. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u202	Mr. Chairman. I've always learned that if you come to a party and there are a few less people, you should never let that show up. Also because it turns out to be the nicest people there. In this case, it is. We're debating with one of the best secretaries of state in the cabinet. So you should actually suppress the tendency not to name who you miss. But I want to do it anyway. I believe that the Minister of Finance should have been present at this debate and should have been heard. We have had a debate here, in the plenary, on last year's Millions Note, not to mention the first Millions Note by Minister Hoekstra. It was adapted to the most important part of this political year. The abolition of the dividend tax was not included, and we are very much in favour of this. That really is an essential part of this cabinet's financial proposals. The Minister refuses to discuss this in the Lower House. I have not asked him to do so once; I believe I have asked him to do so twelve or thirteen times. I invited him with many opposition parties to attend this debate in order to be able to ask questions about the budget. He sent a letter to the Chamber saying he refused to come. That doesn't give a pass. It doesn't give a pass in a democracy not to come when the Chamber calls you. I have important questions about the budgetary rules. Is it true that the 1.9 billion of the dividend tax had to go to relief? Or could it also be used for the wider locational environment? Is it right, then, that in his reply on Friday, the Secretary of State said that five other things are even more important for the locational environment than reducing charges? Investment, education, culture; a very passionate speech by the Secretary of State. I could have kept it myself. The PvdA fully supports that. Couldn't it have been used for that? Then why didn't they? Teachers' salaries, investments in culture I'm looking at D66 now. There are huge problems. This is also very important for the climate of establishment. Couldn't we have spent at least a part of that 1.9 billion? That is a debate I would like to have. I am now asking questions to the Secretary of State, but a Minister of Finance should simply answer them. These are real questions from the Chamber. We have also tabled a counter-budget with GroenLinks and SP containing these proposals. They were not negotiable at the time, because dividend tax. But this is really a different spending. Another question I had: if you were to use the 1.9 billion, would you necessarily need to reduce the burden on companies? Or is that allowed, if you want to give it to burden relief if necessary, to people as well? Is that a political choice? Or is that the result of the budgetary rules? How exactly does that put together? How does this relate to the considerations made by previous Cabinets on the budgetary rules? I was personally involved in that. I know quite well how the budgetary rules worked. It happened regularly that after a political deal, if there were political wishes or something else had to be changed, I call it children's pardon, the health insurance contributions were adjusted. This is very common within the budgetary system. Or does the Minister consider that his predecessor has failed to comply with the budgetary rules? Was Dijsselbloem a worthless finance minister in this area? I think that these are very important questions that you should ask in Parliament. The Minister refuses to be present to answer such questions. Oh, that's a real goddamn game. I haven't seen it before in six years. I don't know why. I would ask the Secretary of State to clarify this. He can also change his mind: well, these are questions, I'll ask him tomorrow. Then he can answer tomorrow. Surely it doesn't matter if you don't answer Parliament's questions? I think that a single Member already has that right, but the broad opposition, 74 seats, has asked for a debate with the Minister, time and time again. It's being blocked, it's being haughty about it, and I don't understand anything about it. A minister should obey a request from Parliament to be present. Mr. Chairman. These were my questions about the budgetary rules. I have some interruptions about that when you come to that. I got a note saying: the cabinet speaks with one mouth. But you cannot hide, I say, by saying that you are not about it, because you seem to be about everything now. That's what I'm gonna stick to, Minister Hoekstra. Mr. Chairman. The Tax Plan is characterised by the slogan: multinationals over people. Profit taxes are reduced by 4 billion. People get a VAT increase for their choices. The relief for people is being brought forward. Mr Van Weyenberg has made a great deal of this. That's true, too. In addition, next year, a charge increase of 100 million is foreseen according to the Cabinet, 800 million according to the CPB. I understand that's a definition issue. The cabinet apparently assumes that next year the ride will be over, because next year it will be mostly acidic. The year after that comes the relief. In the long run it disappears like snow before the sun until €2 per person is left in 2042.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u203	In my view, the latter is really not true. What people would get, they'd get sooner. That doesn't mean people lose the money, but the Secretary of State can explain that. I was talking about something else. Mr Nijboer makes different choices than this cabinet. That is his right, but I also know him as a financial spokesman in a coalition that continued to do justice to the facts. I hope he will do the same as a spokesperson in the opposition. He keeps saying: 4 billion lower profits tax for companies. I have also heard him say this in the previous debates that we had in another room. I would appreciate it if he would say: "Prices go down by 4 billion, but there is a 3.5 billion broader base on that. On balance, companies are going to pay half a billion less profit tax and a total of 700 million less tax." Again, Mr Nijboer makes another choice on the Vpb.I respect that but this is a fact. He can only call it the 4 billion all the time, but I do not think that that is entirely true of the facts. I would appreciate it if Mr Nijboer would put that nuance into his words. Again, if he says he would have done otherwise, that's his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u204	The VPB reduction is 4 billion. There's no discussion about that. The question is how it is financed. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly points out that a substantial part is financed by broadening the basis. There's no discussion about that either. That's just the facts. I actually wanted to talk about it further in my speech, but I am going to do so now. As far as measures against tax avoidance are concerned, I have already said that I find it perverse to reward companies that first evade tax with a tariff reduction. I believe that this should be for the benefit of the general budget. I think the balance between what people and companies pay is out of control. In fact, the PvdA Group is in favour of an increase to 27% instead of a reduction from 25% to 21%. That is a diametrically opposed picture, but I certainly do not deny that part of it is financed by broadening the basis. That's just what's in the pieces. That's all I've ever said. I have just argued, and I have always found this to be a perverse argument when you say that the Netherlands has been a tax haven for many years, that there have been huge problems with tax avoidance, that we have been a turntable, and that we will then deal with it by giving companies lower rates as a reward. You're not gonna get anywhere. Then they don't pay anything extra. The problem of tax avoidance is that companies do not contribute enough. If you're gonna fix that, you're gonna have to make them contribute more. Then you shouldn't reward them with lower rates. And you still overreward them, because not the full proceeds of those 4 billion come from this measure. That's a political choice. In my view, we do not differ on the facts but on the political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u205	I respect that the choice is made differently, but I think it is good that Mr Nijboer simply acknowledges that the net income of corporation tax is going down by 0.5 billion. He would have wanted that up. I respect that, but under the line, it's half a billion and not four. I think that people could have gotten a slightly different picture through the first opening sentences, apparently unintentionally, but Mr Nijboer might have to look back on that. In any case, I welcome this explanation. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u206	I don't think so, because I'm going to praise the cabinet as well, with some comments, of course. It can always be even more ambitious. You should not expect a cabinet with VVD and D66 to receive only applause from the PvdA in fiscal matters. That's not to be expected. I welcome the fact that the cabinet is taking tax avoidance measures, but what it spends on is the money it collects. Isn't that crystal clear? I don't think you should give that to 4 billion VPB cuts, to profit tax cuts. I think that's a very bad choice. Well, that's what I'm saying. You have to give that to teachers' salaries, invest in culture, in education. Look at this: student loans must become even more expensive. What kind of choices are those? That's what I'm resisting. You can really do that. Mr Van Weyenberg must also acknowledge that you do not have to give that 4 billion to Vpb reduction or to tax on profits, but that you can also do other things with it. That is what I am talking about here. Mr. Chairman. Multinationals over people. A second pillar of our tax system is that it is fair. That's what the PvdA really cares about. It must be a progressive tax system: the strongest shoulders the heaviest burdens. Now, if you look at the impact of this Tax Plan, you can see that the lowest incomes are at least improving, the tenants, the beneficiaries, the sick people, and that the highest incomes are making the most of it. This is diametrically opposed to my views on what a fair tax system should do. So I'm critical of that, too. To be ahead of those who say, "Yes, but everyone is getting better?" I also refer to the column by Marike Stellinga last Saturday. That depends on whether people expect the basic path or whether it deviates from it. But apart from that: you can see that it has really been chosen that tenants, for example, make half of it better than buyers, for the entire reign. That's when tenants have the biggest problems getting their rent. People with benefits are really left behind in people with jobs. The lowest incomes really get less than the highest. I disagree. The PvdA Group does not agree with that. That's basically what I'm talking about. On behalf of the PvdA Group, I have put forward a number of proposals, in the case of amendment, in the debate, not everything we say is contained in amendments; then it will become even more of a jam and later in motions, to improve the Tax Plan. For example, by discouraging investors and supporting start-ups, by bringing the transfer tax for third homes and further to 10% and for start-ups to 0%. Of course, you're also thinking a little bit about whether that might appeal to some coalition parties or whether you're really kicking someone's ass with that. I thought: this must be a bit appealing. That really helps in the area of living. I would like to bring that amendment back to the attention of the Secretary of State and ask him to be positive about it. Mr. Chairman. We have another amendment in preparation on the removal of the working discount for sick people, for people in the disease law. That's about 180,000 people after all. You think it's a small group, but it's not. These people lose an average of €900 on an annual basis, but in individual cases it is €4,000 and more, net. This concerns people with an income of €25,000 gross. When you realize that and you have that on the table, you see how immense that problem is. In this Tax Plan very little attention is paid to this and this is simply implemented. I ask the Secretary of State to come back to that, because this is just going to have a huge impact on people's incomes. Sick people may not even know that by now. Or someone still needs to get sick. I do not deny that at all, the current sick are excluded, but unfortunately there are also new sick. Mr. Chairman. I have also tabled an amendment with Mr Stoffer. I have also drawn attention to this in the case of interruptions. That amendment is about the cardigan pocket operation in education. The interest rate on student loans is artificially increased to stop the gaps in the Education budget. I thought, "What can a little help?" CDA and Christian Union were already opposed to the social loan system. Mr. Bruins nods. They were both firmly opposed to this and opposed it with a hand and a tooth. And D66 is for education. I thought: I'm making an amendment that meets all those parties a little bit. I do so with Mr Stoffer, who is a member of a very constructive opposition party. Then you can send a signal with two groups about what they think is important. I also cover this from something that you can hardly imagine that you could be against, namely a tax subsidy scheme for top incomes in the Netherlands. Above the beaming standard, people get 30% tax exemption. That arrangement was already there during previous Cabinets, but it also remains under this Cabinet. It's not that you've entered it, so you probably didn't get it either, but you don't want to limit it either. That seems to me to be a very tidy amendment, for which the whole of the Netherlands would actually be in favour. Who's in favor? We read the papers. Every April you can review the annual reports of the newspapers: that top man gets 2 million and that top man gets 3 million. So almost all of them receive 30% subsidy, provided they are not Dutch. Top footballers get that, by the way; I can get into a fight with that. But I support that amendment, and I ask the Secretary of State to support it. Mr. Chairman. For example, in a number of areas, I will not go through everything we have submitted, because all of this is still being discussed and proposals are being made to improve the Tax Plan. I ask the cabinet to take this seriously and to take it over. The same applies to the coalition parties. I've already devoted some interruptions to that today. Mr. Chairman. After the Tax Plan, I come to the greening measures. It supports the PvdA Group. The PvdA Group is in favour of greening, so we will support that bill. I do have a few more questions. Our main concern is: do people not pay too much of the bill, while companies are the biggest polluters? Is that even balanced? However, companies are the ones that cause by far the most CO emissions and environmental pollution, while the bill for the most part goes to people, or at least half-a-half of them, but that is not the ratio of emissions to people. Are you sure you can hold on to that? The tax reduction on the energy discount is the most important example of this in these tax proposals. Two hundred million is being taken away. Then the cabinet says: we compensate for that in the general income picture. But when I look at that, I can see that the lowest incomes are making the least progress, so that doesn't combine with each other. If there were purchasing power cards in which the lowest incomes improved most, I would say: yes, the cabinet has done so neatly. But that's not what comes out. I therefore call for attention to be paid to this. As far as cars are concerned, I will not go into Mr Omtzigt's examples in such detail, but I do think that we have gone a little too far in subsidising some cars. So I didn't just laugh because I thought it was a ridiculous example, but just because it was so visual. It wasn't a laugh of "what a load of bullshit you're sitting there talking." We just went through that. It remains a balance between stimulating innovation, which is really necessary if you want to green up, and not going through tax incentives. To be honest, this has happened in the past, and unfortunately it is still happening on parts. Mr. Chairman. Another part of the Tax Plan that I am enthusiastic about is the tax avoidance measure. The Secretary of State is simply taking serious measures. Equity and debt has been discussed. It's a lot of money, too. It also hurts, even in housing corporations. I'll get to that in a minute. But these are measures that are good. They're improving the economy. These measures will also support the PvdA Group. The question is: why hasn't a further variant been chosen? Mrs Leijten has already mentioned variant A. I'm not going to repeat that entirely. She has explained this in detail. But it is also about the percentage, for example. I already saw a motion from different coalition parties and GroenLinks to bring that to 9%. I'd even rather take it to 10%. Why isn't that list a little tighter? Because what's 7% Vpb? Then what are we all talking about? That's a threshold you can crawl over; you don't even have to jump, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the housing corporations. The Secretary of State and I have political differences, as it turns out. But I just liked his answer from last Friday. Only when it comes to housing corporations, he didn't convince me. The story was that an exception had been requested from the European Commission. I read in the letter that we received today or yesterday, and I am a little lost in the day count with all these debates, that no formal request has been made to the European Commission, but that there has been a crackdown. Well, that's different, isn't it? If you are formally and legally substantiated with a lawyer and say "We want to exclude those housing corporations, because they are not letterbox companies. That's what the Netherlands is going for and we're gonna put a big line on it for a while," then that's a little bit different than probeing whether this is gonna work out easily in the legislation. So I ask the Secretary of State: what exactly happened there? And if you intended to do that with the 363 million collected from housing corporations, why do you only compensate for 100 million in the compensatory measures? If they were excluded, they would have paid 363 million less. That makes sense to me. We were discussing the housing budget last night. We took plenty of time for that. That lasted until 11:45. So we're still in time, Mr. Chairman. I sense from the cabinet that it doesn't take the tenants seriously enough. There are problems with living. We have had an extensive debate on living with Minister Ollongren. We've got a whole bunch of tests and papers. Get that done. There's not enough going on. But look at the impact. The cabinet makes a nice decoration. It says we're going to compensate 100 million and then you can invest for 2 billion. This means the other way around that if you increase the burden by 360 million, 7 billion in investment in social housing will be reduced. That's the other side. That is done with one stroke of pens, and I do not like that at all. It will not be the reason for us to vote against all tax avoidance measures. However, we are voting in favour of amendments to remove this. So I'm not going to use this as some kind of leverage "if you don't solve it, we won't do it," because you can also otherwise compensate. We are all making proposals for this, all of which are in our counter-budget. But if you take measures against tax avoidance, if the tenants, the housing corporations and the social tenants on the waiting list are the victims and if you don't compensate them completely, then I don't think that's okay. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to go into that process again at the European Commission. If you have submitted it formally, are you prepared to submit it formally? the amount of the compensation and the amount of the compensation. And hopefully he'll come to another conclusion. Mr President, I have already come to the final points. I'm just at half the time. The PvdA is a constructive and sometimes also cheerful opposition party. Together with GroenLinks and the SP, we have tabled a counter-budget, as should be the case in Parliament. We also have a number of amendments. I have just mentioned a number of them. They relate to student loans, to residential start-ups helping and slowing down investors and to the Disease Act coming up. There are also a number of amendments to improve the tax system. It is also about bigger things, such as not letting the VAT increase continue. This increase, for example, will increase the cost of groceries and public transport tickets. I understand they might not make it in the bigger picture. But we do all that work. We're making serious proposals. My experience, also from the coalition years, is that plans get better if you take on a good proposal from the opposition once in a while. I would also like to warmly invite the coalition parties and the cabinet to this. I also support the good measures. Six of the eight laws that lie ahead will support the PvdA Group: greening measures, measures to tackle tax avoidance, a number of technical measures, the small enterprise scheme and the fiscal technical measures. We will all support them. Of course we have comments on this, but on balance we are behind it. What we will not support are proposals that really go against what we think a tax system should do. We are in favour of a fair tax system. So if you make proposals that make the tax system more unfair, which puts the lowest incomes, the tenants and the sick at a disadvantage and gives the highest incomes the most............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I just want to be clear about that. And then we are not for a few hundred million to change our minds. The same goes, of course, for the proposals to give 4 billion to large businesses in these times. I would point out to Mr Van Weyenberg that this is also financed somewhere. But you can make other choices with those 4 billion. That doesn't contradict me again. There are huge profits, while wages are lagging behind. There is no need, and yet that 4 billion is structural. That's 120 billion in 30 years. I didn't mean to be so lame, but I am now. Mr Van Weyenberg did it all the time, so I'll do it again: 120 billion in 30 years, what kind of investment in society can you do about it? Investment in teachers, in the future of the Netherlands. Investments in good care, with an affordable own risk. Investment in an equal society, in neighbourhoods that risk turning into ghettos if there is no intervention. What can you do with it? The PvdA Group will not support these proposals to give the big business such a huge bite out of our budget when there are so many societal needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u207	Thank you to Mr Nijboer. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u208	Mr. Chairman. Over the past week, we have discussed eight legislative proposals in two days. Those were fruitful days and I would like to start by thanking the Secretary of State and all the officials involved, the great team behind the Secretary of State, for the enormous amount of work and answering the questions. Those were often very complicated questions, with a lot of numbers and a lot of tables. They also had to work under high pressure and pressure of time. Many thanks for that, and compliments to the team behind the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. It is a special tax plan, because for the first time we see the full tax impact of the coalition agreement. We've had the first Prince's Day of this cabinet. Everything we saw last year and this year was actually still working out the policy of the previous cabinet. Only from 1 January will we be able to see what this government agreement is doing with our country, with purchasing power, the economy, the location climate, the business environment and the public sector. We're gonna see that from January 1st. It is an ambitious package ahead of us. Especially now that the dividend tax is not abolished and that a comprehensive business package has replaced it, which can also benefit SMEs, we see that there is a balanced package. It's a very special tax plan. We are seeing a first shift from income to consumption and pollution, and we are seeing a relief for people in the country. Families with a moral salary in particular will improve on this. Families with children will also improve. Companies will find that there is a basic broadening, accompanied by a tariff reduction. And there is considerable investment in the public sector, especially in education. Education is the largest growth item in this cabinet's budget. There is 1.9 billion extra for education. And while we're doing all that, the government debt is falling. The Christian Union also considers this very important. We've talked about the Joseph economy from this place before: in golden times, in fat years, you have to save for lean years. That's what this cabinet does. A small spot is still the shelf life deficit of 0.5%. That's where we have to keep our finger on the wrist. You could say that we've just been a little too greedy, but still. The fact that we were able to keep this in balance is a good thing. It is also good that we have been able to put tax measures into eight legislative proposals in which two parties such as D66 and Christian Union, who sometimes look at taxes from such different points of view and angles, could come together and find a balance together. That's just a very good result. Mr. Chairman. Last week we also had a good exchange of views on the principle of carrying capacity. I have previously argued that the principle of carrying capacity and the instruments of control are in fact very closely linked. In particular, in recent years, several successive Cabinets have been instrumentalist in focusing on purchasing power and on participation in the labour market. As a result, we have seen that there have been a lot of tax reductions, which have been increasing. They also became dependent on income and the transferability went away. What exactly does that do with the carrying capacity? That is what the Christian Union is concerned about, which we often hear in debates. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to come forward next year with building blocks for a future tax system that reduces instrumentalism and makes it robust and simpler. Because several colleagues have already stressed it: the tax system needs to be simpler. Mr Snels also discussed this in detail, and I can follow his story to a large extent and agree with it. The building blocks for a robust and credible tax system, as Mr Snels has already mentioned, must at least ensure that we reduce the 50 billion in annual tax reductions. The basic reduction must disappear and the rates must no longer be unnecessarily high. That way, people can just look at how much tax they actually pay at a certain rate of tax. That's what they've lost on taxes. This makes it more transparent, clearer and, above all, fairer. The building blocks for a robust and credible tax system have already been reflected in the government agreement of this cabinet. They could actually be implemented in the coming years. For example, the tax burden on income should gradually shift further towards use. The fiscal balance between the various income flows should be restored. Capital gains should be treated equally, irrespective of the origin of that capital gains. Such core principles should be principles of justice which, in fact, many parties in this Chamber should be able to agree with. Mr. Chairman. I understand that there could be an ideological point in the debate on life-form neutrality in wages and income tax. Let me say this: I can justify the fact that the least-earning partner or entrepreneur has a relatively higher share of her or his income. But the pumped-up tax rebates are used as a drug to attract even more people into employment. At some point, the dose of that pill has become so strong that you have to ask yourself whether you need to increase the dose of that pill further or whether you have to conclude that that pill is not working anymore. It seems that the company is set up in such a way that it is not clear whether it is still possible to seduce the very last ones by increasing the dose even further and pumping up the tax rebates even more. Maybe you should say: now it stops and we go back to something that is simpler and more transparent. I think it is courageous of the Secretary of State to say on the second day of the discussion of this Tax Plan that he wants to seize the call for less instrumentalism with both hands. I look forward to the building blocks that the Secretary of State is going to deliver. To close, I am going to deal with ATAD 1 against tax avoidance and for treating equity and debt more equally. Like the Christian Union's ability to bear capital is an important principle in income tax, so equal treatment of equity and debt must be that in corporate tax. We are still a long way from that, but with this ATAD 1 legislative proposal we are taking an important step in the right direction. We interpret ATAD in a number of respects even more stringent than the minimum requirements, but here and there we can add a little bit more. That is why I am also in favour of the amendment on the increase from 7% to 9%. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Snels and myself. It is good that we can do this together and that this amendment will help us to tackle tax avoidance. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the substance requirements. I still have doubts, even after the second day of last week's response, whether these requirements are sufficiently effective for larger multinationals. The purpose of the substance requirements is to distinguish between the CFCs operating in real economic activities and the artificial CFCs. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this also includes a distinction according to the size of the companies. That's what we talked about in the debate. The Secretary of State's answer was: feasibility problems. So it's just hard to carry out. I'm sensitive to that. I know it's just not easy with our complicated system and a tax administration that gets a lot of work done. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared, since next year will be a year of reflection and contemplation for him, to see if he can do something about that substance, something that will make it possible to deal with the big companies tighter. Stricter demands as a company is larger! You should be able to make a difference between small companies and large companies when it comes to substance requirements. I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to make additional efforts to do so, at least to investigate it and to report to us in the first months or in the first half of next year, for example. Mr President, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u209	Thank you. We have now arrived at Mr Van Raan, of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u210	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the 2019 Tax Plan. A secretary of state who wants to green up. I would like to thank him for all the answers, as well as the official organisation. I got a point or six. The 2019 Tax Plan is a very special plan. Let me explain to you why. One of the conclusions of the recent IPCC report is that a limitation of warming to 1.5 ̊C is still possible. So it is still possible to stay within that temperature increase. That's good news. But it also says that under unchanged policies we are heading for an average temperature increase of 3 ̊C. That's bad news. Now you'll say: what difference does it make, from 19°C to 22°C; nice weather, right? But luckily, most people don't think that anymore. There's no harm in showing the UN's descriptions here. With 3 ̊C, 3.2 billion people get problems with water, among other things. 330 million climate refugees are expected. 1.3 billion people get malnourished. Food prices are rising by 30%. The Amazon will be destroyed. And that's 3 C... Last week I called EZK's budget a "3 ̊C budget'. After all, the major measures must come after the climate agreement, the climate law and so on. The Minister could say it in his way very cumbersomely: he could not agree. It is therefore good to note that we are talking about a 3 ̊C tax plan for the time being, while we have to go to 1.5 ̊C plans. That's why the 2019 Tax Plan is special: it's the last 3 ̊C tax plan; next year we have a 1.5 ̊C plan. Does the Secretary of State agree with our analysis and our conclusion? This is my first question. Mr. Chairman. Minister Wiebes is optimistic about the affordability of the climate transition. I would like to put that optimism to the Secretary of State, as one of the mathematicians who is also monitoring this. Last week, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs counted us with indices for the fact that when real GDP increases from 100 to 130 in 2030, we have to spend only 0.5 of these 130 on the climate transition. That will also sound like music to the ears: 0.5 out of 130. And that's good to do, so he claimed. That sounds wonderful. Only, that "when" is actually a fat "if." After all, if we go from 100 to 130 in 2030, this means on average a real growth rate of 2.2% per year for 12 years, while we were only growing by 2% between 1996 and 2017, and on average 1.3% between 2001 and 2017. So that's quite a task. In addition, there are two major problems, which I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. Real growth of 2.2% for 12 years is already a problem, but it is certainly a problem if we realise that there is still no decoupling between growth and CO emissions, and that it is therefore becoming increasingly difficult to take climate action with that growth, which is not decoupled from CO. That's basically like putting out a fire with gasoline. Growth is the problem, not the solution. And the second problem that comes with it: there is no plan B either. Because if we're not going to grow like this, how are we going to finance it? I would like a response from the Secretary of State, as a mathematician, to that 2.2% real growth. Mr. Chairman. Our conclusion is that, as far as we are concerned, all the budgets and tax plans must be able to pass the 1.5 C test in the future. That is quite a task, but it is probably facilitated by the fact that we have already promised ourselves that we will do so with the broad concept of prosperity. What does the Secretary of State think of this reasoning? Mr. Chairman. Combating climate change by all means should not only be the responsibility of the Minister of EZK, but the responsibility of the entire cabinet and all directors. I think that's endorsed, too. However, it is problematic that the 2019 Tax Plan, like all other budgets, is still a 3 ̊C plan. Meanwhile, we have a cabinet that significantly reduces the tax on profits and imposes a minimum CO price that is temporarily below the ETS price and therefore has no concrete effect. The cabinet continues to muddle with the climate tables, while in the meantime it increases VAT on vegetables, fruit, train tickets and culture. The cost of doing nothing is not calculated, because the PBL is too busy, so the message is. De Nederlandsche Bank's urgent message about a CO storage of at least €50 per tonne is not yet heard, unless I have read correctly in the answers of the Secretary of State that was given at the industrial table to develop a CO storage in scenarios and now specifically that DNB plan is in place. That's right, that's how I ask the Secretary of State. Mr President, then on tax avoidance. The reduction in corporate tax, the tax on profits for companies, is a cause for concern for a number of reasons, but the reduction in corporate tax also acts as an excuse for tax avoidance, as it is certain. Fortunately, organisations such as SOMO, Tax Justice and Oxfam Novib are investigating international tax avoidance. Oxfam Novib recently showed that companies such as Merck, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Abbott have avoided tax for many billions via the Netherlands. We've been asking questions about that. The answers to our written questions were encouraging, as the Secretary of State acknowledged that such companies had not complied with their tax obligations. For, he writes, in recent years, "it has been found that international avoidance structures have allowed companies to postpone or adjust taxation which transfers the costs of general services, including medical care, to citizens and businesses who simply fulfil their tax obligations," et cetera. This means that, in this case, a distinction is evident between companies that do and those that do not. Does the Secretary of State intend to recover from this type of company the underpaid tax? The tax obligation is not without obligation. In fact, the tax authorities are in the front line when there is bankruptcy. As with our demand for ING's tax position as a result of the follow-the-money report, I expect action to be possible here, as there are enough external and internal signals. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? Mr. Chairman. Another subject is VAT... No, I'm sorry, I'm skipping a bit. Speaking of ING: in answering our question, the Secretary of State refers to the signals that have been issued and that it is up to the tax inspector to judge. Then he says he can't say anything about it because it's covered by Article 67. Well, fine, but then let me just ask two questions to the Secretary of State. Is the assumption that he actively transmitted that information? And can third parties do that, for example a club like Our Money? Maybe he could even file a report with the tax police. I'd like a response. (NL) Mr President, VAT. The adopted 2016 Thieme/Great Motion invited the government to work for maximum policy and tariff freedom. The Secretary of State has done a good job. Or the modified VAT directive, because that is what I am talking about, which gives maximum freedom, there is a dispute about it, but it gives a lot more certainty, as the Secretary of State indicated. But, yeah, what good is that freedom if you don't use it then? Specifically: why is people care not exempt from VAT and pet care? A pet also has an interest in getting good and affordable care. The owner is often someone who takes care of the pet with love and dedication. For a lot of owners, a pet is a member of the family. I've called a pet an extended family member. If it is difficult to introduce a reduced new rate, while it is possible, as the Secretary of State writes, is it technically and regularly possible to apply the VAT exemption applicable to human care to pet care too? I can well imagine that it gives rise to some problems of introduction when it is introduced, but that once it has been introduced, implementation is relatively easy, because it is now also true of human care. Mr. Chairman. We understand that lowering VAT on fruit and vegetables is more complex than reducing or exempting VAT on veterinary medicine. We also thank the Secretary of State for the answers and the quickscan he has carried out. But we will not let go of the subject, because it is basically that the Secretary of State has said that it is too difficult for fruit and vegetables. We will not let go, because the Party for Animals believes that protein transition and fruit and vegetables are important, left and right. In the legislative consultation, I indicated that plant products are extremely protein-rich. Lentils, beans, pulses, but also native Dutch vegetables such as peas, kale and Brussels sprouts are excellent sources of plant protein. The protein transition is good for humans and animals. I assume that it is also interesting for CDA and VVD colleagues to propose that the Secretary of State should examine how, at European level, the production of local vegetable vegetables could possibly be promoted by tax, and how we can achieve this. And while we are talking about the answer, we thank the Secretary of State for acknowledging that the agricultural exemption is also his responsibility. We can work on that now. Mr President, I am finishing. However, I would like to return to the structural nature of the 1.9 billion which is now being implemented as a relief package. We have said that you should actually consider this as a cyclical yield. The Secretary of State contradicted that, but in his reply the Secretary of State does not deny that the 1.9 billion goes largely to structural expenditure, while the revenue is not structural but cyclical. What is it now? That's the question. Finally, Mr President. As a Party for Animals, we have often advocated a progressive energy tax rather than a decreasing energy tax. We have argued for input-based taxation rather than output. But these arguments have not yet been heard by the cabinet. Almost everyone sees the strength and potential of this greening, and GroenLinks is going to put forward a proposal for it, but the cabinet does not yet see it. And in our opinion, the cabinet is holding itself and others captive with it. Speaking of this high energy tax for citizens, the Animal Party believes that low incomes should be compensated. And our proposal was also to pack that in because of the efficiency of the healthcare allowance. After all, this system has already been fully reformed and can be used to provide low incomes. The Secretary of State has said that it is not the most targeted option. That is what we hope for, because then you could say that perhaps the Secretary of State will see that those low incomes must be compensated and that there are opportunities for doing so. Our proposal may not be the most targeted, but perhaps the Secretary of State himself will see other possibilities. Mr. Chairman. Greening the system sees this Secretary of State as one of his tasks. Making sure that the next Tax Plan can pass the 1.5°C test is part of this. And the vigorous approach to tax avoidance may well be part of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u211	Thank you to Mr Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u212	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are talking about the tax ruins of the Rutte Cabinets. The mess of the IRS itself. It's the mess of tax expenditure getting out of hand. The mess of construction, dismantling and bogus tariffs. The mess of leveling for hardworking Netherlands. The mess of the unreasonable box 3 load for savers. The mess of fiscal discrimination, especially of the elderly and pensioners. The mess of parties that have turned purchasing power plates into a closing point. The mess, finally, of cutting off housing while there is housing shortage. I could write a book about it. I just have to think about the title, but it starts with "The rubble..." Before I go into the Tax Plan, I would like to go into the definition of reduction or change of charges once again. The draft annex shows that in 2019 there will be a charge increase of 800 million for citizens, but according to the Ministry of Finance it will be a maximum of 100 million. During the General Reviews, I made a great deal of criticism of this and Mr Wilders fully supported me. Minister Hoekstra didn't really have a good word for it. Last Friday, the Secretary of State promised that Finance would consult with the Planning Bureau or, if so, how this difference could be reduced. Because it's become inimitable. The cabinet shields with a charge relief of 6 billion, but at the same time the same cabinet admits that it is only EUR 36 million. When the coalition agreement came out, the criticism was already there, including ours. It wasn't a load relief, it was just a big slide in time. But that criticism of the first hour has also stunned. Now many pretend it's news, but it's not at all. Is the analysis correct that, according to some parties, the sustainability balance did not allow any new burden relief, or was there another decisive reason to recycle the standing load relief over time? In fact, I think it is a great deal to make today's reduction dependent on events in the basic path in 2050 or 2060. You can't run a country like that, can you? Mr. Chairman. I will also come back to the dividend tax, of course, but I will be brief. 50PLUS has asked questions about the criteria referred to in the Collecting Legislation Note. In the replies to the note on the report, the Cabinet gave the following reply. "A collecting law must meet a number of criteria. The various elements must be consistent in substance and not of a size and complexity which justify a separate legislative proposal, and there should not be any expectation that one of the elements is so politically controversial that careful parliamentary consideration of other parts is at stake." That is, of course, entirely in line with the much discussed motion by Mr Hoekstra. We will never know whether the First Chamber would have rejected the entire bill on the basis of the Hoekstra motion accepted there, but can we agree today that we will never do this again? I have here the amendment by Mrs Leijten and myself not to abolish the dividend tax (35028, No. 5). This amendment would have given the Treasury 2 billion in structural terms. Perhaps in this Chamber this tax amendment can be made in the Guinness Book of Records, thanks to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u213	Before you go any further, Mrs Leijten has a comment or a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u214	I do not want to alter Mr Van Rooijen's words, but the fact that he is discussing it now reminds me that we need to withdraw that amendment, because it is no longer in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u215	That's a minor formality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u216	Yes. That is what we are going to do, but for history: it has not yet been withdrawn; it is still on the table. But we're going to reconsider, and you know where that leads. Mr. Chairman. I also had an amendment to withdraw the proposal to abolish the dividend tax, in line with the Hoekstra motion, from the withholding tax Act and to transfer it to one of the other draft laws, in particular those concerning games of chance, because it would make it easier for the First Chamber to make an independent, independent judgment. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing eight proposals, including ATAD 1. Actually, it's crazy, especially when you consider that we've done the whole string twice, with a whole series of notes of change. The cabinet needed over a year to withdraw the proposal to abolish the dividend tax. Actually, that's what caused us to run out of time. It was a huge waste of energy, with Rutte getting it out of his own constituency, but not enough, so we will call it again today, discuss it, stir it up and rub it in, because it was a political and economic mistake of enormous proportions. It is much better in a democracy, in my opinion, for a politician's love baby to be included in the election programme. The whole of the Netherlands has now been given the unwelcome taste of corporatism, by powerful large companies that lecture politics. That is also why the opposition keeps coming back to it. But in addition, Rutte has many other pieces of music that can hardly bear the daylight in 2018, such as a Levelling operation of unprecedented magnitude. In 2016, a CDA senator already calculated that it is 15 billion for hardworking Dutch people; a merciless punishment for anyone who just puts his or her head above the modal ground. But fair is fair, the leveling starts with an income of just over €20,000, perhaps €25,000. From that point on, the rent allowance, the care allowance and the general tax rebate will be reduced. As a result, minimum wages and modes are almost equal in net terms. Rutte does say you have to fight yourself up, but in this labour market and with this tax system, the net is not going anywhere for middle-income people. Then fighting yourself up becomes a demotivating and almost impossible task. Working between minimum wage and modal is strongly stimulated, but you do not develop yourself. Does the Secretary of State share this view? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. I was talking about bogus rates instead of disk rates. A little further down in the income building there is also the still faster reduction of the labour cut. The fact that next year's tax base is 37% means nothing to ordinary citizens. The winding-up and phasing-out routes of discounts have made our tax rates false. When will these unbridled tax experiments and tax discrimination stop? The Tax Administration is on its last legs and the broad Dutch middle class feels very good that they are very well leveled under Rutte. You can hide it behind tax regulations, but that's not gonna go away. This affects everyone, not just the elderly. Earlier this year, I mentioned a list of ten anti-aging measures. These were all measures in the tax sphere which not only cost people a lot of money, but all contribute directly or indirectly to greater complexity and/or tax discrimination. I'm only gonna name them one more time. The indirect fiscalisation of the AOW that is increasing. The introduction of the Bolasting tax that is now becoming visible. The income-dependent care premium which, in fact, only pensioners pay. The Law standardizing wage concept, the Wul; the infamous Wul. The non-sharing in the 5 billion package. The abolition of the elderly allowance. The old-age discount is much less than the working discount. Reduce the elderly discount extremely quickly. The payoff, so the abolition of the Hills Act. It's gonna count in January. In a few years' time, there will be 130 million in burdens for the people who have repaid their debts. Finally, number 10, older people receive only half of the general tax rebate and half of the labour discount. Speaking of age discrimination. Almost all Dutch people could still calculate their net salary in the eighties and nineties: so much free foot, so much fare and ready Kees. If you were interested, you'd understand. There is no question of that now. Only insiders understand anything about this system. Ordinary people are in the dark. That's got something exciting, too, like the slot machine. People pull the lever and they'll see what comes out. Yes, very exciting, but I assume the Minister and the Secretary of State agree that this is not the intention of a tax system. After all, the tax system must take people away and not deceive them. Mr President, income tax. The future has a long past, I have said before, and so does our income tax. It is in a pitiful state. How could it have come to this? Previously, the first major step was taken by the reform on the advice of the Oort Commission at the beginning of the 1990s. The rates of premium and taxation were put together, which also reduced the perception of the pressures of the tax and premium sectors. The tax reform under Kok II, carried out by State Secretary Supposedly, abolished the duty-free foot and replaced it with the general tax reduction: the first major leveling. Then the Rutte I cabinet. The income limit for the income-dependent care premium is increased by 50% from €35,000 to over €50,000. The employer pays that premium for the employee, but it is taxed wages for the employee, up to the Wul. Pensioners andzzp'ers pay that premium themselves. For middle groups this is a charge of €1,000 maximum in one blow. Rutte II. The depreciation of mortgage interest rates will gradually take place at an ever lower rate over a period of 28 years to 37% in 2042. That was a very fundamental breach of the principle of carrying capacity. After all, income is a concept of balance. Income and deductible items should be subject to the same rate, as was the case for decades. The Rutte and Samsom government agreement introduced a new income-dependent care premium, which everyone had to pay for themselves, with a much higher income limit than the €55,000 of the already existing income-dependent care premium. That's an extra heavy leveling. That would have meant that two income-dependent care contributions would have come together. It's a blunder. It's a blunder. The second one clearly had the character of an additional tax. Under pressure from Wiegel and me in an opinion article in the Volkskrant in the same week, this new care premium was wiped off the table by the VVD within that week. Rutte III. In response to questions from 50PLUS, the Secretary of State replied last week that there is a leveling of 3.6 billion in this cabinet on the basis of only four measures, starting to bite from €36,000: the reduction of the labour cut, the freezing of the income line for the top rate and the deductions at a lower rate. If I look a little longer, it's even 4 billion, but it starts with 3.6 billion. Fastening the top fare first freeze and then increase it less I now call the Fast Tax. The middle groups with €67.000 get €9,000 less increase before entering that rate than would originally apply. It would be €84,000 and now it will be €74,000: the Fast Tax. Mr. Chairman. In an opinion article, I argued that the care premium should not be used as an instrument for leveling. For that we have income tax with a progressive rate. Like I said, you can hide it behind tax tricks, but that's not gonna go away. The VVD paid a very high price to the Labour Party. What the VVD got back before that was fiscal consolidation that was far too fast and too hard. In three consecutive election programmes of 2010, 2012 and 2017, the VVD promised a total of almost 30 billion relief for citizens. This does very well in the models of the Central Planning Bureau. That's what you promise the citizen in advance and then you don't do it. Citizens were given the opposite: large packages with burden increases, levelings and cuts. That's what we got. This Prime Minister has often been accused of this. But instead of taking over his third cabinet period with both hands in order to deliver what he promises to deliver in his programme, he does the opposite again. The political capital of the VVD was mainly invested in reducing the burden on the former employer of our prime minister who was not in the VVD programme. I understand you want to do something that isn't in your program, but not something that you should abandon your primary promise to voters for the third time in a row? Let us be honest, the great relief of Rutte III has not come either. She's only been brought forward. This is also demonstrated by the number of structural burden relief measures. The Cabinet itself admits this. The counter stands at 36 million or 0.005% of GDP. The abolition of the tax on dividends was not merely brought forward. That was what new money was available for. Especially there is the pain for this Prime Minister. Imagine that 50PLUS would not lower the AOW age but would increase it if we were to join the cabinet. The world would be too small, even with us. It would never happen. We wouldn't be worth a snipe. I do not exaggerate when I say that load relief for the VVD is a spearhead as the AOW always was and is for us. In other words, no tax reform, but continuing tax deception. There is a very limited employment effect. Everyone feels that the incentive effect of specific tax reductions is pretty much exhausted, but we keep throwing money at them. The major parties, the VVD first, must get rid of their discount fetishism. Raising the employment discount and the IACK is not a generic reduction and it certainly does not increase and reduce faster. That's the micromanaging of incomes and that just doesn't fit the VVD or the CDA, but they've become champions in it. In some respects, tax reductions are not even a relief at all, but simply wage subsidies for which the rest of the Netherlands has to pay much higher rates. The employment discount of 20 billion alone is equal to 5% extra income tax for the rest of the Netherlands. In the 2017 Tax Plan, the cabinet replied that many people with a middle income in the previous cabinet period were going to pay significantly more tax in favour of lower incomes. As a result, an amount of 15 billion has been transferred. Those are the hardworking Dutch people the VVD keeps talking about. The pensioners with this income have also paid heavily. Mr. Chairman. Then the Law on the Uniformization of Wage Concept. An additional blow was given to pensioners by the introduction of the so-called 'Wul'. For employees, the taxableness of the care premium paid by the employer was abolished. Against this tax advantage for employees, the rate of the first disc for all was increased by 4% to 19%, but for pensioners the unthinkable was: they did get the acid, but not the sweet. Go straight to the tax prison, don't stop by and you won't get 20,000 guilders. The anger about this is still not gone, I can tell you. This cabinet contrasts the burden reduction of 10 billion by introducing two discs and increasing the discounts with a leveling yield of 4 billion. This has already been confirmed by the cabinet itself in answers to questions from 50PLUS. During the previous cabinet period, the improvement of the government's EMU balance was mainly achieved by leveling burdens and much less by cuts in expenditure. I suppose the Secretary of State would like to confirm that for the record. In 2021, the maximum deduction for the general tax discount is €2,700 and the employment discount €4,000, in total €6,700. For the elderly, these amounts are exorbitant. If you're retired, you'll get even less than half that amount. And then I don't even talk about the IACK, because then you're at $9,000 net. The employment discount is also indexed with the minimum wage and holiday allowance Act and not with the table correction factor. This will cost an enormous amount of money over the next five, ten, twenty years, but it also means that freezing the labour discount will provide enormous coverage. I would like to point out, moreover, that a reduction of €4,000 in employment means that the employee pays only 5% to 10% of the AOW premium effectively, in response to our questions. My conclusion is that income tax has become a dragon of a system, a multi-headed monster. Income policies and the labour market are leading. These secondary objectives of taxation have become more, as the main objective of income tax policy, of course, in addition to the budgetary aspect. There are two illusions here: the feasibility and purchasing power fetishism to the extreme. Every year with the tax plan you turn as many buttons as possible to decide something, completely free from tax principles and basic principles. Mr President, I come to the principle of capacity. Equal income comes with an equal tax and contribution tax, but in practice this is not the case. In this connection, I would also like to draw attention to the difference between one- and two-earners, which I would even call unfair, with GroenLinks, I believe. In the past, the second point was that as the income was higher you were only dealing with a higher rate, the progressive rate, but that world no longer exists. If your income increases now, a completely new tax will arise as a result of the reduction of discounts. A third point. Also, deductions have so far been deducted at the same rate as at which income was taxed. But here we see that deductions are offset at the lowest rate, while revenues are taxed at the high rate. The middle class experience a marginal pressure that can reach over 60%. There are three progressions. Can the Secretary of State identify what is going to happen in the next few days or is it possible to get a much better picture of the next policy? What are the official progressive rates? What are the effects of the reduction of reductions, in particular the reduction in working hours? What are the effects of the surcharges, which, of course, also fall rapidly depending on income? Can we put those three progressions, because that is actually them, in one overview and in one study? Perhaps an interactive model is a good idea, so an interactive key table in fact. Then when you turn one button, you can see, with lights, what all the other numbers are going to do. Is that a possibility? You then know for new policy what the consequences are when you turn on one of those three buttons. You can't say that it's fine if you do something about the disk rates, if you don't know exactly what changes next with the discounts and the surcharges, which can work against them or even overcompensate in a negative way. The question after the principle of carrying out capital is, of course, whether it is still possible to restore income tax. It takes too far to go into that now, but consider everything and preserve the good, I would say. I would add: restore the old good. The rate of the first disc is far too high, 38%, and the top rate should not start with double modal, the salary of our society's backbone in the public and private sector. The puzzle is too complex to be here tonight to tell us exactly how to do it. We have talked to colleagues earlier this evening about system revision. I would like to give you some starting points for this upcoming system discussion. A high tax-free income that applies to everyone, so really general. A low rate for the first disc, perhaps with a small labour cost regime, and separate rates for middle groups and higher incomes. No income-dependent tax arrangements. Popular insurance premium without deduction of discounts. Reduce the difference in burden burden between employees and the self-employed. And, finally, maintain the AOW as public insurance, and thus not a real fiscalisation of the AOW. The Secretary of State also said on Friday that he will not do so during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u217	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm going to do something unusual. You're halfway through your speaking time. May I suspend for a few minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u218	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u219	I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u220	I am happy to give the floor again to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u221	Mr. Chairman. I come to the counter-budget and our amendments. Politics is a matter of choice, and that is exactly what our 50PLUS Group is doing in its counter-budget, which also received the support of the SP. This counter-budget includes eight top priorities for 2019, including coverage. That was not the complete 50PLUS programme, but it was just there. A counter-budget is only about a few adjustments for one year. So we've limited our choices. We don't want to make any more promises than we can make. That is an imposed discipline that, as far as I'm concerned, everyone in this house should stick to, whether or not you're a fan of the Central Planning Bureau. They can do the math, and every self-respecting political party must have the courage to have others look at its plans now and then. Unfortunately, the cabinet did not support the adoption of our entire budget. On the other hand, I had never experienced that a large group of the Socialist Group is prepared, in this case, to take over the counter-budget of a small group in its entirety. That's a good start. We are building on this by converting the most necessary and promising part of our counter-budget into amendments. We can still change the government's policy. It may be a mess, but hope for better policies is not lost. The plans in the 50PLUS counter-budget mean that next year's government surplus will only be reduced by nearly 1 billion compared to the 8 billion surplus compared to the cabinet's plans. The same applies to our amendments, provided that all three are adopted. The first freezes the AOW age at 66 years. Coverage comes from not lowering the tax on profits; a great social dividend rather than great social unrest. The CPB has informed us that a reduction in the AOW age to 65 years is technically no longer feasible for next year. We've accepted that. We only reduce the AOW age one year later to 65 years, but for the rest of the Chamber it is also an opportunity. If you do not want to reduce the age of AOW to 65 but do want to freeze at 66, then our amendment is your best chance. On our website we have given a look at the long-term financial effects of this measure. We see no reason why we should not do so. AOW at 65 years is possible and affordable. It's a matter of choice. That is the choice we have made. Our second amendment concerns the 3% additional increase in the minimum wage and the AOW benefit at the top of the indexation. Coverage comes from abolishing Primark and expat subsidies; less subsidies to higher wages and benefits. Raising the statutory minimum wage by 3% additional automatically works on all AOW benefits and the social minimum. As I argued at the beginning, we must stop the extreme pursuit of discounts and surcharges. You start by raising the minimum wage and the AOW extra. If the basic facilities are better, you also need much less horns and bells. There are, moreover, two other serious reasons for other groups to support our amendments: firstly, to drive wage developments and, secondly, to tackle the problem of cashing out. The figures for the latter are shocking. As many as 4.5 billion in tax rebates cannot be paid because the income is too low. Relatively, the elderly are again particularly affected, because the elderly discount is 414,000 households, as much as 30% of the total number of elderly people entitled to these discounts. If the benefits are too low to receive a discount you are entitled to, you know that the system of tax rebates is less and less accurate. Our third amendment concerns the abolition of the tax on tap water. Coverage comes from a smaller surplus. It is also a limited compensation for the VAT increase. 50PLUS reverses the rate reduction and the VAT increase of the Cabinet............................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. The IRS. I have spoken about this before; it will not be the last time. At the beginning of the first Rutte cabinet, the Tax Administration was still in high esteem at home and abroad. This was partly due to the great commitment of well-educated and hard-working tax officials. By the way, that commitment and quality are still there. How is it now possible that the Tax Administration is in a pitiful position? This is Rutte's IRS mess. He's been there for seven years, and he's made this loss happen. He stood there and looked at it. Also the VVD-secretaries Weekers and Wiebes have not been able to do anything to reverse the tide. Weekers was wrongly re-appointed in Rutte II. After his quick departure, Eric Wiebes came on the goat. He was so busy with tax reforms that didn't go through. I've been through it intensively in the Senate that he forgot that he was also responsible for the Tax Administration. He didn't even know that a departure plan had been agreed by his officials, which put the Tax Administration in acute weather, which it's still in. A destructive report by the Borstlap Committee was needed to make the House even clearer than it was how worrying the situation was. Wiebes promised to get better but left the Tax Administration in a depravable state. Shortly afterwards, he was promoted to a higher post. In fact, we have every confidence in him, I would like to say straight away, Mr Snel, that there is a consolationless legacy and has drawn up a renewal agenda to put the Tax Administration back on track. That's gonna take years, he says. In the meantime, this Secretary of State has already had quite a series of hot irons before his picks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u222	Before you continue, Mrs. Lodders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u223	Mr President, I do not have so much a question as a question, but I do object to these personal suspicions. It is, of course, up to Mr Van Rooijen to express his position on tax plans here too, but I have absolutely nothing to do with these suspicions. It is this cabinet that is working on reducing taxes for people and for entrepreneurs and that makes a substantial investment in the public domain. I would like to say this here at Mr Van Rooijen's speech, which we have been listening to for about 45 minutes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u224	I am not talking about the burden relief under Rutte III, but about the loss of the Tax Administration under Rutte I, II and III, where two State Secretarys of the VVD were responsible. I have nothing to add to what I just said. I am concerned that they are partly responsible for the loss of the Tax Administration. I'm not taking back a word of that. I would just like to mention the considerable backlog in the collection of the taxes and taxes on inheritance. At my request, the Secretary of State has promised an external review of the ICT organisation. That's not enough for me. I've requested a VAO. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. The gambling tax. The proposal to adjust the gambling tax following the judgment of the Court of Justice leads to an increase in the rate from 5% to 29%. For the Toto this is an attack that puts the company's continuity in great danger. NOC*NSF stated in an e-mail dated 30 October that none of the interested parties had been consulted in advance in the development of the legislative proposal. This applies to the NNO, but also to the beneficiaries of the contributions of the NNO, namely NOC*NSF and its members and eighteen charities, such as the Orange Fund. Did you or did you not have a meeting? If not, why not? Would the Secretary of State care to comment on this? I have received an e-mail on Monday evening, possibly also from Mr Dielissen of NOC*NSF. It states the following: "The difference between the Ministry of Finance and NLO on the possible financial consequences of this change in gambling tax remains. We are still very concerned about the possible adverse effects on payments for sport and the 18 charities. We believe that further investigation is appropriate and that this measure should at least be postponed. The effective functioning of the KOA Act is not foreseen before 1 July 2020, so that any further regulation of the tax regime in the Tax Plan '20 is timely. This offers time to come up with a broad-based and sound solution." NOC*NSF continues by saying that the compensation proposed by the VWS budget is unfortunately not a desirable solution for sport. "Structural funding from a reliable and undisputed source is and remains necessary. The Toto must retain its positive role in our society." Not least for the financial contribution to sport and the eighteen charities, I would add. In the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State gave the relevant assurance that the Toto would continue to exist. He also made commitments to other groups. My group wants to be certain of this in this debate. If necessary, I will table a motion in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then the letter from the Social Insurance Bank to AOW'ers. I've got that letter right here; this is it. I've written a lot of it. I won't read it again like I did last week. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the attention he has paid in his written answers to my questions and comments on the letter sent by the Social Insurance Bank to taxpayers abroad on this subject in October, but I find the answers unsatisfactory. The Secretary of State states, among other things, that the Social Insurance Bank has identified four target groups, each of which has received a letter tailored to that target group. That surprises me, because in the letter I read out during the legislative consultation, there is nothing to suggest that the recipient belongs to a particular target group. On the contrary, the letter refers the person concerned to the website of the Tax Administration to find out to which target group he or she belongs. Perhaps the Secretary of State is referring to another letter from the Social Insurance Bank that has not yet come to my attention. For the time being, I have to conclude that all the letters and answers to the questions of my group and other groups, even earlier, do not excel in unambiguous clarity. The same goes for the letter I read out last week. If the example is that non-qualifying foreign taxpayers outside their countries will suddenly lose certain tax rebates, then you can just write it down, including the numbers. The explanation given by the Secretary of State on 18 September of this year does not, in my opinion, give the desired clarity, but gives an impression. This impression is that there is no one who, on the basis of these measures, loses a large part of the tax rebates from one year to the next. As has been said, we have received many letters from concerned citizens who fear that they will have to turn in a big bite of their income from their AOW as of 1 January. If that's bullshit, I'd like to tell them, but the tone and content of the letters and answers from the cabinet also make me doubt. One: "The wage tax measure prevents many non-qualifying foreign taxpayers from recovering tax reliefs from the payroll tax'. Impression: something changes, but nobody loses anything. Two: For qualifying taxpayers, they may temporarily "have a liquidity disadvantage for the impact of the tax part'. Impression: something changes, but nobody loses anything. Mr. Chairman. My questions aren't complicated. Is there a target group of foreign taxpayers who are entitled to part of or the whole tax rebate until 31 December and who no longer have it after 31 December? If yes, what is the characteristic of this group and how large is it? And why hasn't there been unambiguous communication earlier that there is a group of people who lose tax rebates overnight? If no, why is it not literally the case in the answers of the Secretary of State and the letters sent by public authorities to the citizens concerned? Why would you warn people about a lower pension, a lower AOW, if that doesn't occur in practice? The video in which I read the letter from the Social Insurance Bank during last week's legislative consultation has been viewed tens of thousands of times on our Facebook page, and there is still a passionate reaction to it. How fantastic would it be if the Secretary of State now gave full clarity to these people? But this group will be frightened in January if it turns out that they are net less of their AOW, as the Social Insurance Bank's letter also states: "We tax more on your AOW pension. As a result, you will receive a lower net amount from 1 January, but we do not know how much." Mr. Chairman. Transitional rights and respect for their effect is a matter of principle which I would like to address. We are very concerned about this form of retroactive effect in tax legislation. There are two examples in the Tax Plan: the expat scheme and the box 2 tariff. There are also some in the ATAD 1 proposal and in the fiscal unit proposal, which we will deal with later. Reactive force does not belong in tax law. Respectful effect is retroactive force-light and should also be included in the exceptions. What is striking in these proposals is that two aspects clearly play an almost decisive role: the budgetary aspect and the major problems in the Tax Administration. Both aspects should not take that prominent place. Prior to that, the Cabinet should consider whether the importance of respectful functioning is adequately taken into account in the need for proposals. Of course, citizens cannot assume that existing arrangements cannot be changed. But legal certainty is a great asset and protection for citizens. The question is how far Cabinets can go. I shall look briefly at the proposals one by one. First, the expat arrangement. The question is whether the restriction of the expat regime should apply only to new cases, so that existing cases are excluded. After all, when expats arrived in the Netherlands, this arrangement was envisaged. If politics wants to end this arrangement, do you think it goes without saying that the change also applies to people who have been here for several years? It is clear that the budgetary aspect has played a major role: first it cannot be done, then there is suddenly money and then there can be an exception for two years, with a price tag of 700 million. So the lobby has worked in this case: there is still limited transitional law. I come to the box 2 increase and overall balance. The initial increase of no less than 4% was defended by the doctrine of the overall balance. Global balance means: a balance between the pressures of income tax and corporate tax in box 2. In this way, taxation tries to be as neutral as possible when choosing the legal form for driving a company. The argument is that the corporate tax rate is reduced. That argument did not convince us. In our view, the cabinet has given too little importance to the substantial reduction that has also taken place and is taking place in the income tax system. Income tax was reduced by 5 billion in 2016. Now it is being reduced by 6 billion more globally. That's a total of 11 billion. Box 2 concerns many family businesses that are included in the SME sector. Mr. Chairman. I am not going to go into detail about not excluding the existing profit reserves. It will be clear that it is logical that you look at a box 2 rate at a rate of 15% or 20%, i.e. with a substantial reduction. But is it fair and fair to say that the retained profits previously taxed by 40%, 30% and now 25% are treated equally? The cabinet has put forward a number of arguments for refusing to do so. The perspective of action was mentioned. But it was also mentioned in particular that it is a problem for the Tax Administration. Literally, it was said: "It requires a radical change in the structure of the tax administration's systems and a disproportionate investment in supervisory capacity." Similarly, the European directive ATAD 1, which was incorporated into the legislative proposal, makes no exception for existing loans. This is partly because of the large budgetary aspect, but also because of the problems of implementation. Finally, there is no transitional right for the tax unit, which we are going to deal with, except for a minor change in the date of entry into force. My final assessment of the respectful effect is as follows. As a rule, the right of transition and respect for its effect are contrary to the budgetary aspect and to the implementation problems of the Tax Administration. This is a sad picture for citizens and businesses, which are drawing the short straws. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment briefly on the anti-tax avoidance measures based on ATAD 1. I am talking about the earnings stripping measures that limit excessive interest relief. The cabinet has extended the scope of the directive to bring the tax treatment of equity and debt closer together. We did not look at the promotion of equity through, for example, the 2% capital deduction, for which Mr Bruins asked me with attention last week. Other countries do make use of this exception. The question is, of course, why the Netherlands does not. The cabinet has said: the provision of respect for the work is, first and foremost, undesirable from the point of view of feasibility. It would also lead to a significantly lower yield. Mr President, I will come to the housing corporations before I finish. My group stated in the legislative consultation that the corporations should receive full compensation for the additional taxes they face. In our counter-budget, we have provided for this well through a halving of the landlord's tax as of next year. Minister Ollongren, like the rulers of Finance, did not give the impression during the legislative debate that he wanted to respond. As a solution, Ollongren even thinks of a settlement between so-called wealthy and poor corporations. Is this known to the Secretary of State? And does he see a role for the IRS in that? If so, we can once again see that cabinet tricks are preferred to much-needed relief for corporations. I was just talking about this in detail. But that is not the right route as far as my group is concerned. On the housing market it is important that we all now work very hard on the enormous construction task. Arguing or arguing over settlement between corporations does not contribute to this, as does burden-sharing. I hope the Prime Minister intervenes. The housing market is really stalling and everyone understands that the limitation of the interest deduction and the introduction of the landlord's tax under his direction have contributed significantly to this. What is needed now is tight, national coordination and butter for the fish for social housing. Mr President, I shall conclude. I have heard that the Prime Minister is now interfering with pensions, yesterday, today and probably tomorrow. He always said to me, including in the Senate: I am not about that at all, because that is a matter for the social partners and the pension fund administration. I would say that he is dealing with the rules that lead to discounts and non-indexation. We have always asked him to interfere, in particular, with the rate of calculation. So he has a chance today and tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. We also believe that there should be an end to the manipulation of interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u225	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u226	Mr. Chairman. I found that Mr Bruins just now spoke wonderful words of appreciation to the Secretary of State and to all those people sitting here on the benches but above all also working in the Ministry to provide us with all kinds of information and so on. I do not want to repeat them, but I agree with Mr Bruins' beautiful, warm words earlier. Mr President, on to the content. When people ask me, "What's gonna change for me next year?', I can't answer that at all; you know that. But when they ask me, "What's going to change for me in the field of taxation?', I can't really simply answer that either. We are dealing with a very substantial package of tax measures these weeks. In any case, from my point of view, it is almost impossible to see all the consequences in their entirety. Even after all the contributions I've heard tonight, I still think it's a lot and I can't see it, and I don't think most people do. In my opinion, even Mr Omtzigt still needs to think about this very carefully. Then I am talking about the VAT increase, the higher labour cut, the general tax cut, but with a faster phasing-out, a higher rate in the first disc and a lower rate for the remaining discs, and a higher energy bill. It's a lot of pluses but also a lot of minuses. It's like a little bit of a lottery. If you're lucky, it'll work out well for you next year; if you're unlucky a little less. People may not see the forest through the trees anymore. And that's not all, because besides what we're dealing with right now, in previous years, we've already decided on everything that will have consequences for next year. Take the dismantling of the Hills Act. I think you spent a whole night talking about this last year. Luckily, I haven't seen that, but it's on the table. Take also the portability of the general tax rebate, which is increasingly reduced. I hear Mrs Leijten now saying that this nightly debate was a highlight! I don't know. For you, perhaps, at least not for me. But I'm glad you experienced it that way, and I hope we get an even bigger highlight. Year by year, the measures I mentioned just now cost the single earner about €150 in purchasing power. And like I said, it doesn't get any clearer. That is why I would like to call once again on the government to look again at the tax system in its context. Hence my introduction to just now. This could also lead to real simplification, as this could put an immediate end to the high marginal pressure on various points. Because even with a less than moderate income of €36.000, the marginal tax rate is over 49%. In other words, if such a person is going to earn a euro more, he will pay about half of that euro back in taxes. I'm gonna take it back to a few years ago. Until 2015, the marginal rate was only so high with an income of €57,000. Only then did you turn in half a euro if you made a euro more. So my question is, why the flat tax? If we tackle it and make it a little easier, then we can also tackle the tax gap between one and two earners. In addition, I would like to compliment this cabinet on its progress in purchasing power at the moment. I would really like to express this compliment, but we have to acknowledge with each other that this does not reduce the gap. One earners continue to pay far more tax than two earners with a comparable total income. The Secretary of State replied to me last week that, after my call for simplification, I keep calling for a comma and then making the system more complicated to help a specific group. I've been thinking a little bit about that the last few days. In my view, simplification and meeting the single-earners go hand in hand, but it is a bit of a matter of what perspective you are looking at it from. In my view, the system should not become more complicated at all. From my point of view, the single-earners and the families behind them are the child of the increasingly complex tax system and increasingly dependent on the labour rebate and the general tax rebate. That stimulus on the square millimetre makes the tax system unnecessarily complex from my point of view. If you're not careful, it undermines tax morals. It also causes specific groups to be hit hard. But I can imagine someone saying from a different perspective that it stimulates people to come to a certain behavior. There may be a difference of opinion, but I would just like to point out how we would like to see it. As far as I am concerned, a simplified tax system is at the top of my wish list in the area of finance, and I hope that this is also the case with the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of points I would like to focus on. It starts with the waste tax and I start with the export tax. One of the greening measures is an increase in waste taxes. As early as 2014, my predecessor, Elbert Dijkgraaf, tabled an amendment that also controls the export of waste. It is very nice that this will also enter into force on 1 January. I do have one specific question. When you do something like that, of course, you always have side effects. My question is whether it is true that it is possible that for several years no waste tax will be paid on exported waste. What we have understood from the field is that it is possible to apply for a three-year notice. If you start this year, the waste tax will still be €0 in the coming years. If so, does the Secretary of State agree with me that this leads to an uneven playing field? Another point I would like to raise in this context is asbestos. This too has to do with waste and the waste levy. We have said that asbestos roofs are banned after 2024. But there's about 80 million m of asbestos roofs. As a result of the increase in the waste tax, €0.50 in waste tax will have to be paid per m, while it will now be €0.20. Then you'll think, "Is that a lot?" Yeah, that cost is pretty high, because it's usually a lot of square meters. And that while provinces indicate that about 5% to 10% of the owners of asbestos-based barns are expected to have insufficient capacity to finance a clean-up. We're setting up a fund for that. When you talk about asbestos roofs, there is no incentive for less use, as is the case in the area of waste. It has been banned for a long time. When you see that, this increase actually makes the reorganisation a lot more expensive. The risk of this is that more asbestos will be dumped illegally in the wild if you do not look out for it. That is why we are tabling an amendment to exempt asbestos from the waste tax. As we understand, there is already a national asbestos tracking system. This would make it easier to implement it. I hope that with this proposal we will push the reform in the right direction, because that is really necessary in order to achieve it in the near future. I also hope that this will keep our living environment clean and liveable. Mr President, I see someone on the interrupting microphone, but it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u227	Mr Van Weyenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u228	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is specifically about the amendment that Mr Stoffer is now referring to. I understand the goal he's trying to achieve with that. I also understand his concern that otherwise it might have a negative effect on that major renovation operation with those roofs, which is still needed. At the same time, the Chamber has adopted a motion to try to do this more circularly. Indeed, you want to ensure that these asbestos roofs do not end up in nature afterwards, but rather return to other raw materials at all, so do not serve forever as asbestos. Does Mr Stoffer agree with me that, even if his amendment were to succeed, we should continue to work with full force at the same time to ensure that these asbestos roofs are converted as much as possible into other substances? That is the only small risk I see with this amendment. I'd like to see how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u229	It's a good thing that question is being asked. Yes, it is very important to turn that back into another raw material. In this respect, I may be building on what I already mentioned, so first of all we are going to make sure that we are actually going to make it, because that is what we have ambition for together, so that it does not end up in places where you do not want it to. The most beautiful thing is to make sure that this is converted into another raw material as a third step. So thank you for this question. My answer is a definite yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u230	I'm happy about that. I hope that the Secretary of State will also take a little trip to how we can ensure that these two things can go together. Mr Stoffer also indicated his desire to do so. Maybe he can say a few words about that. I am aware that we will then be drifting away from taxation, but then I will be able to weigh this well and in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u231	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u232	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then there's another item: the gift deduction. I have drawn attention to this many times. We find volunteers and charities really the cement of society. What these people and these organizations make for each other, the government doesn't have to do. The participatory society in optima forma, I'd say. We consider this to be so important as a SGP that we do not want to cut back on it. But that is what happens when the gift deduction comes below the low rate for the deduction. It is expected that more than 9 million less will be paid to charities in structural terms. And that can easily increase, as the cut is more than EUR 20 million. We are very pleased, let me also stress that the Secretary of State has promised to look with the sector at a sustainable reduction in donations and the anbi-scheme. But you may understand that we do not really think it is the right order to take the legal measure first, and then see what works best in the end. We are therefore tabling an amendment to mitigate it in this respect. The amendment we are tabling concerns the lowering of the threshold for the deduction of donations. It is now 1% and our proposal is gradually reduced to 0.7% in 2023. That is for those with a small scholarship as well as with a large scholarship something they can use. But this is above all in order to ensure that these charities are given what they can do in the best possible way in society. I hope that this will enable us to find a compromise that will really make it possible to simplify the tax system. So let's not make things more complicated again, but let the charities and supporting them go hand in hand. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the dividend tax and the business package. We have already shown that the SGP is very pleased that the abolition of dividend taxation is a job. The plan became more and more expensive and the arguments became thinner and thinner. But then, of course, the big question is: what is the SGP's position on the package that replaced it? This new law is no longer called the "Bronze Tax Act 2020," but the "Business Act 2019. One would think: that makes companies happy; business is already supported a year earlier. But that's not true before 2019. With this law for 2019, the business community will receive a tax increase of nearly 0.5 billion for the choice of the year. We would have liked to see that different. But after this acid, let me also come with the sweets. We also believe that this package contains a great deal of good measures, such as the transitional arrangements for expats and a reduction in the corporate tax rate that ultimately benefits the entire business community. So first a year some acid, but then explicitly sweet as well. We really appreciate that. Returning to the 30% scheme. As far as we are concerned, it should be tied to the beaming standard. I told you last week which excesses are going to happen. That is also the reason why I signed the amendment with Mr Nijboer to limit the 30% rule to the beaming standard and thus to keep interest on student loans equal. I'd like to say with him, "Who could be against that?" But, yeah, we'll find out. So far I haven't really heard that, but we'll notice that in the next few days. Mr. Chairman. One final point is broad weather insurance. We are pleased, I have used that word so often now that you will notice that we are quite positive about all that is going on with the letter in which the Secretary of State indicates that the Van der Staaij/Van Haersma Buma motion on exemption from insurance tax for broad weather insurance will be carried out. It is quite a mouthful, but we have also received a lot of positive reactions from the agricultural sector. Especially now that we see that the weather is getting more extreme, there is a strong need for affordable insurance. The insurance tax is a big bump for that. We are therefore pleased that the European Commission is being asked to grant an exemption from the insurance tax. We are not afraid of the outcome, because there is such an exemption in France, for example. However, we have understood that the reaction can quite easily be delayed and that it is likely that we will be a year further before the exemption actually enters into force. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if it is possible, if it is indeed a year later, to implement the law retroactively. I like to hear if he can and if he wants to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u233	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u234	Mr President, thank you. Looks like we're about to save half past twelve. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the 2019 Tax Plan. There are hundreds of pages of reports of oral and written submissions in the file. Taxes and money continue to captivate us. But first, let me be honest about two things. The first is that it is difficult for a small fraction to follow all this in detail. Because why is all this being thrown into some kind of quick cooking pan from September to November? Is it true that the Council of State has recommended that some of the tax legislation be dealt with in the spring? In this way, part of the Chamber can certainly be better assigned to its supervisory role and budget law can be better served. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr President, I would like to make a second point. Then if you've seriously gone into difficult matter, you'll come to me on your own. That must come across me a bit of the heart that hard-hearted, unwavering and sometimes haughty attitude of the coalition parties. In the pardon of those coalition parties, we have a very, very occasional amendment as an opposition. With great difficulty, a motion occasionally comes through the heaviest coalition discipline. But we keep up the courage and continue to fight for a fairer and fairer distribution of prosperity. I would like to congratulate my colleagues in the opposition for once. Keep fighting if you get the lid on your nose time and time again from the coalition, requires a high degree of motivation, energy, passion, patience and a very thick skin. So congratulations to colleagues; that can also be said once. Mr President, on the substance. According to the cabinet, next year there would be a reduction in the burden on families. However, the CPB says that, as has been mentioned a number of times, there is a burden increase of 800 million for families. I wonder, how is this possible? How is it that the cabinet keeps its own statistics? There's only one truth, isn't there? And is it true that the 6.5 billion relief that the cabinet has always talked about is cumulative over 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, and so it is really only about an average of 1.5 billion euros a year? In the meantime, the burden in this cabinet period increases by 9 billion, due to tax increases from the previous cabinet and higher care premiums. There is therefore a net burden increase of 2.5 billion. Mr. Chairman. The citizen does not, of course, distinguish between what the previous cabinet has decided and what this cabinet adds. For the citizen, that is all one pot of wet. The citizen looks at what it means in the wallet on balance. And I don't like the fact that this cabinet tickles itself by telling half the truth. But, yes, the Cabinet is doing everything it can to create sympathy, now that they have so little faith in society. They are now in the polls at less than 60 seats. Mr. Chairman. Magic with numbers doesn't make this cabinet any more credible. Worse still, maybe it doesn't make the whole politics more credible. And magic with arguments and reasoning doesn't make the cabinet any more credible either. This also applies to the dividend tax. I'd like to talk to you about that one more time. I must say quite frankly that I do miss it a bit, and I can tell from colleagues that they do. Because the way in which this has been magical with arguments and reasoning is unbelievable. Each time Mr Rutte came up with another line of reasoning, to finally withdraw the proposal completely four weeks ago. Rutte exchanged arguments more often than the average woman at a Moroccan wedding changes dresses and that is really soon about five times! For a year, the Prime Minister has presented all kinds of arguments here, which, in retrospect, were not correct at all. Because on 16 October, the Secretary of State himself said that not abolishing the dividend tax is even better for the economy. And it wasn't just one company, as it was claimed. But it was one company, to be abandoned by the same company and served with an app. I wonder what would have been in there. "Hey Mark! Thank you for your help. HK stays in L. Wasn't up to you. Too bad about the vote of no confidence. Laters, Paul." My question to the Secretary of State is: can you at last admit honestly what the whole of the Netherlands already knew? And do you share the view that, by keeping strange, evasive, and constantly new stories, the cabinet has undermined the credibility of politics? Mr. Chairman. Then something about the money that is no longer spent on dividend tax abolition. Why didn't the cabinet choose to invest more in the public sector? Why wasn't more money chosen for care and education? Why was it not chosen to maintain VAT on broccoli and bananas at 6%? I am considering a motion on this point. Another annoyance of many people is the absurd petrol excise duty: almost 65% of the petrol price consists of excise duty and VAT. And that 1.9 billion could also have been used partly to reduce this to 50%. But now it is once again the big capital that is being served, with a Vpb rate of 20.5%. This big business has seen its profits double over the last few years. Why carry water to the sea, while the public sector is left with a shortage of teachers, with too few hands on the bed, with an army with too little equipment, with a tax authority that is poorly able to collect, with an IND that cannot handle asylum applications and with an UWV that cannot check WW applications for fraud? This is unimaginable, isn't it? With these measures, the cabinet only contributes to increased tax competition in Europe. This is how we put that race to the bottom. Governments will eventually generate too little tax revenue to keep their welfare state intact and to invest in infrastructure. Competing on ever lower taxes is therefore antisocial. It is better to agree minimum tax rates at European level, for example 20% for the Vpb for larger companies, 15% for the dividend tax and 7% for the withholding tax for low-tax jurisdictions. I would like a response from the Secretary of State, and I am also considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. A completely different European issue in the tax field is the digitax, also known as the GAFA tax. Internet giants such as Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple hardly pay taxes in the EU. Since spring, there has been a proposal from the European Commission to charge a temporary sales tax of 3% to the Internet giants. DENK's group supports the imposition of tax on these intrepreneurs. But it can't be that these internet giants continue to add those fucking profits to their own capital, paying virtually no tax on that, while the ordinary, normal, hardworking Dutchman has to pay off the tax increases of Rutte III? However, the position of Minister Hoekstra and Secretary of State Snel in Europe is very unclear. Do the Minister and the Secretary of State support the European Commission's proposal? Or do they refer to the OECD, which has been working on this subject for a long time, but which has not worked out for the time being? Mr. Chairman. Is it true that Spain, the United Kingdom and Italy will want to introduce a digital tax on their own next year if the EU and the OECD fail to make progress? That certainly seems a better alternative than nothing at all. Can the Secretary of State make a draft for the Dutch Digital Fair Share Tax? I'd like a response from the Minister and the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then something about tax avoidance and evasion. Last week, to the surprise of at least the group of DENK, we received a letter on this subject. Let me first make a comment on tax evasion. The Secretary of State writes on page 1 that he cannot estimate the extent of this, because this is illegal. Yeah, that's how I like a few. At least international research must have been carried out or at least estimates of existence should be made. The Secretary of State himself says that it is extremely important to base yourself on figures; otherwise you cannot make a policy. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to dig a little deeper into his ministry to see the extent of tax evasion in the Netherlands. Surely we need to know how deeply evaded is in the Netherlands? How do we know how much criminal money is being laundered and not how much tax is being evaded? Experience has shown that, if digging is done properly in ministries, everything pops up, such as the receipts of Teven and Opstelten and the memos of Rutte and Wiebes. Can the Secretary of State dig a little deeper? I'd like a response. As far as tax avoidance is concerned, the Secretary of State suddenly comes up with a very different figure than we have seen so far. Mr Snel says that the balance sheet total of 4,500 billion out of the 15,000 special financial institutions is not relevant at all. In his letter of 6 November, he continues with the words that the real flow of letterbox companies is much lower than the 4,000 billion that has also been mentioned. It would only amount to 199 billion, of which only EUR 22 billion would go directly to lower taxing countries. I see the Secretary of State shaking his head, so he agrees with his own letter. Of the remaining 177 billion, the Netherlands may be an intermediary on the road to tax avoidance, but the Secretary of State is not sure. He also agrees, because he is now nodding no. The group of DENK wants to know this very precisely, because otherwise the Law on withholding tax will be a pacifier, a wash nose, a distraction perhaps. The Netherlands should not in any way be an intermediary in avoiding tax in other countries, because that is a kind of reverse development aid. Helping to undermine other countries' tax revenues is not solidarity and is antisocial. According to UNCTAD, developing countries miss EUR 90 to 120 billion due to tax avoidance. The Netherlands must no longer be the tax healer of the world. So I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's going to monitor the effectiveness of the withholding tax Act and how he's going to evaluate it. And then the limit of that 7%. It still seems arbitrary on the DENK fraction. Even if 8% is levied in a country, but the money actually comes from a country where 18% is levied, 10% of taxes are still being evaded. Therefore, not only royalties should be looked at, but also at where they come from. And if there is a significant difference, the Netherlands should inform the country of origin. I would call this difference something like the avoidance route. Then the country of origin may decide to collect the evaded taxes. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the proposal to present and tax this. Why does the Law on withholding tax on interest and royalties have to wait so long? The payoff and the abolition of the dividend tax could go through the Chamber very quickly; there the cabinet, with Mr. Snel behind the wheel, drove 200 km/h on the escape lane. But tax on interest and royalties can still be evaded throughout 2019 and 2020; there the cabinet takes a kind of step. That can't be true, can it? Why should this not apply until 1 January 2021? Shouldn't that be a year earlier? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then there's that 4,500 billion in assets from letterbox companies: where did it come from? Has enough tax been paid on this in the past, or is it all some sort of solidified tax avoidance? How much of these EUR 4,500 billion on the liabilities side is equity and how much is debt? How can this amount be so high? This is three times our entire pension assets. Why does this only generate 1.4 billion in tax revenue? 1.4 billion! If we divide that by 4,500 billion, we're going to be 0.03%. Very little. Of every €1,000 that these letterbox companies have in capital, they pay €0.30 tax. If we were to solve this in accordance with box 3 of ± 1.2%, we would get 54 billion. That could generate a lot of extra tax revenue. With this we can reduce the taxes of the ordinary, normal, hardworking Dutchman and we can invest more in the public sector. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about letterbox companies. On 3 April 2018, a motion of the undersigned was adopted on tightening up the substance requirements for letterbox companies. Their scope was that they had to depend on the size of the underlying company. I haven't seen the effect yet. In last week's planning review, I see that this will be regulated by policy decisions in 2019. Can the Secretary of State explain this further? How else is he going to inform and involve the Chamber? I wish you all a pleasant evening and tomorrow healthy again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u235	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-31.u236	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. This debate will be followed up tomorrow afternoon. Then the Secretary of State will try to answer all your questions.
