ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I would like to welcome him to a closed meeting. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery today. We have 13 speakers. Speaking time is six minutes per speaker. I shall first give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Stef Blok 2004, in his role as chairman of the Committee on Integration Policy. I quote: 'The integration of many immigrants has been wholly or partly successful. This is a major achievement, which is not due to the integration policy of the government but to the efforts of newcomers and the host society." Nice, I thought, then, a visionary look at integration. That man was way ahead of his time. If only they had more of that in politics in The Hague, I think. I am well aware that during the last debate on integration I quoted this conclusion from the Block Committee. Stef Blok 2018, fourteen years later, in his role as Foreign Minister. "Call me one example of a multi-ethnic and multicultural society where the original population is still around and where there is a peaceful partnership. I don't know him." Mr President, I will help the Minister. I know a country like this: the Netherlands. But the Minister does not know it and has put his entire civil service to work to find an answer to this question. I can very well imagine that officials were surprised by this question: "What kind of question is this? Do we have to take this seriously? Let's give this a rest." I understand that. That was my first reaction, too. The decent and a tad boring Stef Blok? He doesn't walk around with racial theories in his head, does he? I thought. It's true, though. I was wondering, what happened to this man in 14 years? What did 14 years of PVV-corvee do to this man? How can a man radicalize like that? I thought about it for a while and I quickly came to the conclusion: the VVD destroys more than you love, both nationally and internationally. Mr. Chairman. The prime minister's instinct is prehistoric. He wants to hunt with a clear group of people and maintain a village. He's unable to commit to people unknown to him. And then you're gonna have to be Secretary of State. How can you defend Dutch interests abroad when you have trouble connecting with people who don't look like you? The question also arises as to what your image of the Netherlands is. The Netherlands is a multicultural, multiethnic and multireligious society. 17 million people with different backgrounds. Mr President, these are facts. To anyone who denies that, I say: please walk out, look around and come back, and if you still adhere to the social image of Block, you are consciously blind to the enrichment of diversity. In the world of Block, Marco Borsato and Ali B. could never score a hit. In the world of Block we could never have a fantastic Argentine-Dutch queen. And despite all the doom-thinkers about multicultural society, we have succeeded, and we are getting better and better. But what doesn't help is a polarizing minister. The worst thing is that more and more there is a culture in which racists, xenophobics and wannabe Wilders politicians are given legitimacy to say everything. What Janmaat was abhorred and crooked in this Chamber 20 years ago, we don't even look up anymore. Look away for xenophobia and discrimination from flat political, electoral self-interest. I blame the establishment for that. Xenophobes get the green light in the Netherlands for their corrupt ideas, partly thanks to Minister Blok. After all, the Foreign Minister says he is looking at xenophobia pragmatically. I find it strange that there is hardly any fuss about that. Is it appropriate in his office to be pragmatic about xenophobia? Is the Minister also pragmatic about anti-Semitism? Is the Minister also pragmatic about aphrophobia? Explain that on the international stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	I wonder whether Mr Kuzu, after his raging speech, can also explain where he got the Minister's quote that we should be pragmatic in dealing with xenophobia. That's what he puts in the Minister's mouth. It seems to me that today it is a good idea to distinguish between things that have been said and things that people themselves attach to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	I wonder whether Mr Dijkhoff has taken note of the full transcript of the statements made by the Foreign Minister at the meeting. It does say that the Minister has said that he is pragmatic in terms of xenophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	Since I have read that transcript, I wonder what precise quote leads to the paraphrasing given by Mr Kuzu. I can't take it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	Well, it's really in the transcript. I would really recommend that Mr Dijkhoff look back at that. The Minister states that he is pragmatic about xenophobia. I see colleagues nodding in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's in there, but you can't reproduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	I didn't memorize that entire transcript of eight pages, but I read it very clearly. But I see that Mr Dijkhoff probably did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr President, it is clear that there will be no answer. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	I think I have given a very clear answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. Foreign Affairs and the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Klaver has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	Perhaps Mr Kuzu meant the passage: "Well, these are very existential questions. On xenophobia, I am, I fear, very pragmatic."? Did Mr Kuzu perhaps mean that passage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yes! Thank you, Mr. Clover. For Mr Dijkhoff too: that is how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Chairman. State Department and the VVD, that's not a good idea. We had just recovered from Zijlstra's affair, with his delusions about the dachshaw and Putin, but now we have a supporter of racial theories where Wilders and Baudet of water teeth. Another VVD hitting a dead end. The umpteenth VVD man who embarrasses the Netherlands. Old top diplomats agree that the international reputation of the Netherlands has been squandered by Blok's statements. The question is legitimate, and I ask it to the Minister, whether he himself believes that he can operate as a credible foreign minister. If you portray Suriname as a failed state and with colonial arrogance forgets who has transported ships full of people from Africa and Asia to Suriname to sell them and to make them work on the plantation? How can you, as head of the diplomats, speak so undiplomatically that even your own political party calls your statements "poor"? Mr. Chairman. After his statements, the Minister withdrew from the form, but not from the content. He regretted his choice of words. But does the Minister also regret the normalization of xenophobia, regret the setting aside of groups of people based on background, regret polarizing and regret the colonial dedain with which he has put countries away? Is he prepared to indicate and express himself clearly in front of the multicultural society? Is he willing to go into the history of countries he's offended? Is he willing to travel quickly to Australia and many other countries to offer his personal apologies to, for example, the Aboriginals and to see for himself that they are still alive? Mr President, concluding. I would like to inform the Minister that our trust has been greatly damaged and that it is going to be very difficult today to regain that confidence. Finally, I would like to say to everyone who has offended my words, a la Blok: I have done it to stimulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr. Chairman. "The Minister wants to speak freely," Minister Blok's officials wrote to 70 Dutch people at international organisations for his speech. We all know Stef Blok as a thoughtful person, someone who chooses his words carefully. When you see those images, you also get the impression of someone who chooses his words carefully. But what he says is amazing and has made a lot of people angry and made a lot of people sad. He was the first to apologize, apologize to Poland, Australia, the Czech Republic, Singapore, Turkey, Curaçao; I may forget some countries. But the effect is thus great damage to the reputation of the Netherlands in the world. However, at least as damaging is the pain caused in the Netherlands. Because the minister says he does not know a society that is peaceful in which people with different ethnicities live together, of different origins, the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not tell his own country. This country, the Netherlands, the Netherlands of the twenty-first century, is versatile and multicoloured. The question is, can you represent that country if you don't know it? And by saying that "deep in our genes" is the inability to connect with people of a different origin, the Minister smacks in the face to all those Dutch people who are in love with someone with a different background, who work together, are colleagues, friends with Dutch people with a different background. Mr. Chairman. This is the week that schools are open again throughout the Netherlands; in Amsterdam only Monday. I take my children to school there and I see how children go to school there together and I see how the teachers work every day to ensure, in a peaceful society, that every child can pursue his dreams. We also know that some of those children will have to do their best for an internship and for a job. This minister does not have to count on these children, because that minister is "pragmatic" about xenophobia. He really said it. Later came: no, he didn't want to give a free pass for racism, absolutely not. Of course he didn't want to, but it's the effect if you choose your words like that. Introducing a genetic excuse is not without consequences. And then the withdrawal. It went in slow motion. It took us eight weeks to do that. It was partly careless, he regretted the fuss, "annoying that it offended." More than a month later, something came to regret. The main excuse was actually: it was meant to stimulate. It was meant to stimulate. Someone comes by with a baseball bat, smashing your windows in, smashing your furniture short and small and saying: yes, but ho, it was meant to prick and what annoying that you take offense, which is too bad you get angry; I was just pricking. Mr. Chairman. These statements are unworthy of a minister. These statements are unworthy of our country. They are a blow to the face of all those Dutch people, all those hardworking Dutch people who work every day to make this country a success, to form a peaceful society with each other. They know the problems, we know the tensions and no one walks away from them, but they choose to continue, to be optimistic and persistent. All those Dutch deserve answers, better answers than we've got. What does this minister really think? How is he going to repair the damage, in the world and in the Netherlands? How does he think he can represent us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the credibility of the Foreign Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. That credibility must be beyond any doubt, domestic and foreign. Mr. Chairman. These are not my words, these are the words that Halbe Zijlstra, former Foreign Minister, said here in this Chamber six months ago when he lied about his alleged meeting with Putin. And he went even further. "Only in this way can the Minister operate abroad without hesitation, only in this way can he serve the interests of the Kingdom." Mr. Chairman. That is why I am asking Mr Blok today: doesn't he agree? Does he not agree that what his former colleague Zijlstra said at the time of his resignation is that the credibility of the Foreign Minister should be beyond any doubt? And how does the Minister see this for himself? What about his own credibility, now that everyone has been able to see and hear what our Foreign Minister really thinks about it? For does Mr Blok really think that it is in our genes that we are not able to establish a link with our unknown people? And does Mr Blok really not know any multicultural society where there is a peaceful society? At the meeting in question, Mr Blok also said that he had put this question to his ministry. So it can't be a simple slip. And how does Mr Blok look at the Netherlands in the context of his own statement to our country? Mr. Chairman. That's bullshit. Every day in the Netherlands we prove that we can. And yes, of course, there are problems of integration, we all see that. We're still dealing with black and white schools instead of kids going to school together and growing up. We see that not everyone who comes here learns the language well. We see that foreign money still enters our country and goes to extremists. And we see that there are still temporary employment agencies that discriminate on demand. But my question is: wasn't the VVD itself responsible for this? And isn't it very indecent of Mr Blok to take the measure of society, when it has been the VVD that has for so long ensured a failing integration policy? For, Mr President, can Mr Blok actually remember the results of the parliamentary inquiry into integration policy, which came on our initiative and which led him anyway? And was it not the conclusion that it was not the people, but the policy and that it was a major achievement that the integration of many newcomers was wholly or partly successful, despite the government's integration policy, which showed many shortcomings? Mr. Chairman. The list of failing VVDs is getting longer and longer. And it's gonna be a bit of a embarrassing show. I can very well imagine that there are many people who think: what are we doing here, shouldn't we be trying to solve problems? But no, we're back here today, six months after the last VVD minister had to resign. Mr. Chairman. Living side by side in a society is a recipe for misery, and that is something we must avoid. But if Mr Blok is so concerned about this society, why has he done so little with the recommendations from his own research? And is it not the job of a cabinet to be the guardian of society, rather than to turn people against each other? Because, yes, especially migrants from Muslim countries and their children feel increasingly and increasingly rejected, discriminated against in the labour market, can be shaved over one with criminals and extremists. While there are so many migrants who make every effort to participate fully in our society and make their contribution. How should they put Mr Blok's statements? Some react by retreating into isolation. In this narrowed world, for example, religion plays an important role. See also yesterday's report that there is a growing group of radical Muslims in our country who reject our society. They don't want to be part of our society. An increasingly large group consciously continues to live together, opts for Islamic schools and does shopping in their own shops. This puts them outside society and reduces their children's chances of a good life in this country, where their future is most likely to lie. Mr. Chairman. That is what we are very concerned about. But Mr Blok's statements really do not help in any way, in any way, to solve these problems. In fact, with these statements Mr Blok is not helping anyone at all. However, he does hurt a lot of people, both in our country and in other countries. A foreign minister has to connect with unknown people all the time, but he doesn't really believe in that. Mr. Chairman. Today we would like a clear answer to the question: how does Mr Blok intend to restore his credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u23	Madam President. Those who lie together at the VVD, fool the voter, fail to keep promises or sweep scandals under the carpet can remain politically active without any problems. And if you're very good at lying, you can even be Prime Minister in this country. Only if there is no other way, if the scandals can no longer be kept under the hat, will one resign. But now for the first time a VVD executive gets into trouble not because he was honest, but because he said what he found and told the truth. Madam President. Mr Blok has made several statements. I am not going to dissect them all one by one, but the point was that multicultural society is a disaster and that the indigenous population suffers a great deal from it. That's a truth like a cow. And that, of course, is mainly due to the continued Islamization of our beautiful country and many other countries in the West. Because wherever this Islamic culture gets under way, people are confronted with intolerance, with violence, with terror, with crime, with homophobia, with genital mutilation, mocromafia, infiltration in city halls, girls and women who are called whore on the streets, people who no longer dare to walk the streets at night. Mr. Chairman. Because of this multicultural society, many people now feel like strangers in their own streets and their own neighborhood. So I have to say honestly that I thought, when I heard Mr Blok's statements: great, what a great one. So there's someone else in the cabinet who knows what's going on. Why isn't that guy at the PVV, I was wondering. And why are his wise words not cabinet policy? But the most important question is, of course, why did Minister Blok swallow his words again? Is that because of the criticism of colleagues in the coalition? Mr. Chairman. Of course, the answer to all these questions is the plush. His own job is at stake. The survival of Mr Blok's ministry is at stake, and so Mr Blok is going through the pump and is going to be here today, which I predict to you once again that it was not meant to be, that he only wanted to stimulate and that it was still a closed meeting. Those are all excuses, of course. It is actually humiliating what some parties are asking of the Minister. We will soon hear what Mr Pechtold has to say in his term, but according to D66 sources in Het Parool yesterday afternoon, D66 demands that the Minister take back his statements, that he apologize, that he says that he did not mean any of his statements and that he does believe in the power of multicultural society. It would be a political castration if the Minister gave in to it. I hope he doesn't. In any event, my group will not confront the Minister with a motion of censure. I am sure that Mr Blok said what he really thought. I'm sure whatever he's gonna say later, he meant what he said. I think he still does. Admittedly, he doesn't have a spine. He doesn't have a spine, but he's got good ideas. So, Mr. Blok, if you see another spine for sale, buy that thing, install it quickly, and then you can be on the list of PVV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u25	Madam President. "In the Netherlands, individual freedoms and a close collective hand go hand in hand. Our goal is to make a strong country even better for everyone, especially for people who now feel that the government is no longer there for them." These two sentences are on page 1 of Rutte III's coalition agreement, two sentences which all rulers of this cabinet should not only read but make themselves own, feel deep within and, as far as I am concerned, should be able to express in their own words. Our country and our identity are characterised by openness and respect. Here everyone can make it, here everyone can be themselves, here everyone can belong and here there is plenty of room for diversity. It is precisely in times of Trump, Le Pen and Putin that we must proclaim that tolerance and diversity make us stronger, that diversity connects us instead of separating us and that our foreign policy is valued. That is why Minister Blok's comments are unworthy of a member of the government, especially for a member of this cabinet, who has committed himself to wanting to be there for all the Dutch. Mr. Chairman. Mr Blok's statements on a large part of the Dutch population were painful, and bizarre, because genes would prevent the blueprint of any human being from connecting with our unknown people. It was staggering that the minister said he did not know a successful multicultural society, and far from diplomatic towards Suriname and our Kingdom. It was detrimental to the asylum debate and our position vis-à-vis Eastern Europe. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is not there to stimulate but to connect. The Foreign Minister is not here to fight, but to maintain good relations. The Foreign Minister is certainly not here to question the fragile peacefulness of multi-ethnic societies. He is there to promote that ideal worldwide. And if he can't, if he doesn't want to, or if he doesn't believe in it, if he does, he won't fit into that cabinet. Much has already been reflected, but this debate is there for a reason. Today's cohesion. I have four questions. Does he take back all the words that have been denounced, not only the poor choice of words, but also the content of those words? Does he apologize to you for that, too? Does he make it clear that he doesn't mean those statements? How does he himself, himself, express the strength of our multiculturally diverse society on behalf of this cabinet and on behalf of all the Dutch? I hope that with a clear answer to these questions we will be able to leave behind the painful start of his ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u26	They are big and heavy words, also about what Pechtold expects the cabinet members to convey. I ask him what he thinks about the statement made by Deputy Prime Minister Ollongren who said: 'It was a summer thing, let us not dwell too long on it'. How does he feel about Hugo de Jonge's statement: "Of course, nothing to worry about, don't make it too big."? How does he feel about that? How harsh is he to this cabinet? We saw on Jinek that he said, "I support it." It's your cabinet, it's your minister. What do those harsh words mean to this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Asscher, I do not need you to take a critical look at these issues in this cabinet, which my group supports. You're going into a few other rulers. For example, you refer to Mrs Ollongren and you know... I assume you have seen how she reacted to those statements. She got a question if this was a thing of the summer, the thing. She herself didn't say "a thing." She didn't mean anything derogatory there. She said, in fact, that this was discussed extensively in the cabinet. A minister can go that far about what happens in a cabinet, as you know. So, Mr Asscher, I am fine with you questioning me critically. I am currently critically questioning the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u28	I notice that Mr Pechtold is reacting somewhat burnt. I've seen one vice prime minister say, "It's a summer thingy" and the other vice prime minister say, "Of course, it's nothing, it's just people walking through." We have seen that D66 has announced a walk to remind the Minister that we have a beautiful society, but this is the moment where that happens. I've heard him say that a cabinet like this is neither a marriage nor a hostage situation. I am therefore very curious to see what those words will mean in the future of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u29	I ask sharp questions just as I asked them to Minister Asscher when he was generalising with Turkish organisations when he put Eastern Europeans away. As critically as I have asked Deputy Prime Minister Asscher, who is responsible for integration, I am now doing so with the Minister of a cabinet that I myself support, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u30	So I was right whether Het Parool was right, I must say, except for the last of the four hoops in which Mr Pechtold asks: how do you formulate your strength in multicultural society? Does Mr Pechtold just demand that he take it back, apologize and then, perhaps the most unbelievable, that he did not mean anything about it? That's a total humiliation, isn't it? That's a total humiliation, isn't it? How can you from someone who says something... I understand that you say, even if I disagree with you, in view of the coalition agreement, take it back. But how can you demand from Minister Blok that he say he didn't mean it? That's total humiliation, isn't it? Then the guy's already gone, no matter what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u31	Yes, Mr. Wilders' style is always in demands and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u32	Answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr Wilders' style is always in demand. My style, as you have just noticed, is through the content and search for the nuance that can sometimes lie in words, very vile or not, to see if this minister can convey the agreements of this cabinet. Every politician sometimes has things, even in his own election programme, where he may feel more or less at home. You are not a single sausage, not a party or a cabinet, especially if four parties participate in it. But these are essential matters, and I agree with you, where Mr Wilders and I have been standing directly opposite each other for years. So I want to know very precisely, Mr Wilders, that the image that the minister might be welcome in your party is and remains a dream of yours and that it can never be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u34	That's not the beginning of an answer. Suppose the minister would answer "okay, I take it back, because I am looking at the coalition agreement" I say "too bad," but say "too sorry, Mr. Pechtold, but yes, I meant what I said, because I stand before my words; okay, in retrospect, given the coalition agreement and all the commotion; I want to keep my seat and my plush, I want to remain minister and I want the cabinet not to fall. Once again, I may not be your political friend, but Mr Blok is your political friend. You made a commitment to it. You, Mr. Pechtold, have reached a coalition agreement on that. D66 supports the cabinet and you are the leader of that party. You're asking someone not only to take it back, but also to say he didn't mean what he said. That's completely insane! You'd ask for more than a political castration, wouldn't you? You can't ask anyone to do that, can you, Mr. Pechtold? That's humiliating. You wouldn't want them to do that to you either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u35	I do not need either Mr Wilders or Mr Asscher to control this cabinet in the dualism that shape our democracy. I myself, right after the statements, also on TV, indicated where I stand and where my party is. It's one of the reasons why I'm in politics, why I'm here. I thought it was so strange, and that's why this debate is so strange. I find letters and other statements from the Minister very interesting. I read it explicitly. And I also see that the Minister has indeed struggled with it and has already apologized and other things. I have known Minister Blok for a long time, and that is why the surprise was so great. I know him as a well-balanced man, as a man working on the substance, as a man who doesn't just reason away some kind of fist. That's why my surprise was so great. But I give the Minister every opportunity to explain himself here, in this house, in peace and in his own words, in addition to what he has already done towards officials and towards other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u36	Finally. With a coalition partner like that, you don't need an opposition anymore. The opposition can go home because Mr Pechtold is doing the job. Mr Pechtold says to this minister: excuses are not enough, you must also say that you did not mean what you said. I hope not, but of course the Minister is going to say: Mr. Pechtold, I didn't mean what I said. And then we have a puppet; then we have a D66 puppet as Foreign Minister. And you did. You humiliated your friends and the opposition can go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u37	The Minister himself has already indicated that he was taking statements to stimulate. With you, I never doubt that. But when you say "I'm doing something to stimulate," you sometimes get a piece of your own opinion off because of the discussion. Whether that is wise, and whether he could not have listened better in that company than send: we can all talk about that. But I'm just giving the minister the room to explain himself. And so should you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u38	I very much appreciate the way in which Mr Pechtold starts this debate and puts these very clear questions to the Minister. But what struck me in Mr Pechtold's speech was not just the questions. There were also very clear judgments and I have great appreciation for that: a ruler unworthy, bizarre, staggering, harmful. The question I would like to put to Mr Pechtold is the following. If you, as a coalition party, already have such hard qualifications about this minister, is this minister not going to be flabbergasted, even if he gives answers to the questions that Mr Pechtold has asked that are satisfactory? And how effective can he still be in performing his function?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u39	He's an experienced minister. It is a minister that I have fully appreciated over the last few years, precisely for his nuance, precisely for his strength of action, precisely because he looks at things from a broad perspective. As chairman of a committee, he has studied our society. I assume that he has also drawn conclusions from this which he was able to bear as chairman. That's why it's mostly my surprise. It's my surprise. Of course, I have read letters and other things, but like you, I think this debate is a good idea. I think that at these times, when it comes to questions of this kind, there should be no difference between coalition and opposition. As far as I'm concerned, he can do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u40	I agree. I share that view on how we should control this minister and all other directors here. But I refer to the very sharp wording, which Mr Pechtold chooses, also in a judgmental sense. He says, "A ruler is unworthy." That's said by a coalition party. That's not nothing. I appreciate that. But even if Mr Blok takes back his words, even if he apologizes, I wonder if the Minister has not become lame. Is he still able to carry out his duties with good decency, and with all the confidence he needs in the Netherlands but also abroad? That is the question I am asking Mr Pechtold. It is precisely because of the sharp words he now chooses that he will leave little room for this minister to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u41	Then it'll be a painful start. But I assume that this Minister, Mr Delors, I know him as well as I do and show him what the Netherlands, himself and this cabinet stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u42	I understand that Mr Pechtold is asking these questions to the Minister and says that we have not concluded the coalition agreement for nothing. There's lyrics in there. He also mentioned nuance. Perhaps this is more for my peace of mind, but I assume that, in addition to the quotes from the coalition agreement given by Mr Pechtold, the Minister may also comment in his reply on the texts of the government agreement on increased tensions, on people who no longer recognize themselves in their own neighbourhood, on partly inadequate integration, there are also success stories and the import of foreign tensions into the Netherlands, which can lead to conflicts. We all want to combat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u43	I suspect that you will put more emphasis on this. I'm very attached to page one. But I also talked about the fragile peacefulness myself. I fully agree with Mr Dijkhoff. For example, these were the conclusions of the Blok report, if I may cut them short. It's not one big party of convenience. Integration requires taking up and tackling problems rather than calling for them. You gotta do something for it. That's what you and I and the minister are in politics for. That is why I believe that the coalition agreement is balanced not only in its texts but also in policy. The fact that we're not all from the same angle is political. But there's no dividing line between us and I don't think there's a dividing line with the minister either. It's on other fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u44	I do recognize Mr. Pechtold's emotion. When I heard and read the statements, I was also surprised and wondered: what the hell is this about? With me this soon turned into irritation, but that aside. In his speech, Mr Pechtold made a number of demands which the Minister had to meet in order to be able to function. At the end of an interrupting debate he indicated that he could continue to function if he met those demands, if he generously apologized. But the Minister did say one important thing. He made that statement to stimulate, but he also wanted to speak freely. I was wondering how D66 can speak that freely in the light of his credibility as Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u45	You, too, quickly choose words like "requires." I've been asking questions to the Minister. Of course this is a political debate. It's probably gonna get sharp, too. But I want to hear it anyway... A word like "stimuli" already indicates that it does not have to be your own opinion. I just want to know if he was there in a discussion where he posted some statements to see what the reaction was. I don't think that's convenient, but we'll know soon enough. I have asked these questions, and I think it is very important that a first and second term should increasingly lead us to know today where the Minister stands. He has already written and said a lot about it, but that is what this debate is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u46	I agree with Mr Pechtold, and that is why we have this debate. But after the stimulation it was also about "being able to speak freely." We've been able to see that in the past few weeks. We have seen information on this fact coming out for a whole summer. And my question was actually very simple and concrete. We are dealing with a foreign minister who, when he speaks freely, makes all kinds of statements that surprise and outrage D66. I would like to put the question very specifically: can a foreign minister, when he speaks freely and has such ideas, function as Foreign Minister? How is that in relation to the credibility of the Netherlands on the international stage? I would like a clear answer from Mr Pechtold on that aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u47	The Minister functions as Minister of Foreign Affairs. He's declaring himself here today. That's what's on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u48	The Minister is indeed acting as Foreign Minister, and we have seen where that has led: tensions with the Czech Republic, with Poland, with Suriname and with countries from the Kingdom. If you call that "functioning," then I wonder what your definition of "functioning well" is. I therefore ask Mr Pechtold once again: what is the position on the credibility of the Foreign Minister now that he has spoken freely? Can he then perform his role as Foreign Minister in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u49	Within the lines of a coalition agreement, of course, there is always room for differences, as you have just seen between Mr Dijkhoff and myself, which brings you to the conclusion of a cabinet policy. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the Minister still has room today. And this surprises me a bit of you, Mr Kuzu, because when I hear about foreign policy, it is also often exciting and often not the way the mainstream in the Netherlands thinks about it. So I have put questions to Minister Blok, and at the moment I am waiting mainly for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr President, very briefly because I was addressed personally. I think there is a clear difference between Mr Blok as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr Kuzu as Member of the Dutch Parliament. I represent my constituents and the Netherlands in this Parliament. The Minister represents our country and our interests abroad. Mr Pechtold knows very well that there is a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u51	You have made this point clear. Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u52	I have one more question about the position of D66. Mr Pechtold says: "It may be natural that he said something he does not find to stimulate. You can do that if you want to stimulate." But what if he does? Would D66 continue to trust the Minister if he did find this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u53	"What if..." We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u54	Isn't that a little important for answering his questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u55	That's why I asked the question. I didn't hear you say that. I did say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u56	Then you did not listen very carefully, because my question was: what does the Minister really think? Anyway, you can rewind that. I ask this because the VVD doctors tell journalists: "Yes, he really thinks this! He just dares to say this and that's very good." So, of course, it does matter if he finds it. And given the big words of D66 and the escape route of "he says things he doesn't find," I ask again, out of interest for the point of view of D66: what does it mean if he finds it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u57	In my opinion, Mr Asscher has already tried to involve Minister Ollongren in a rather unpleasant and political approach. Now he's trying to get another coalition group out of it through anonymous sources. He's obviously more familiar with that sort of thing than I am. The only thing I've heard about the VVD recently and immediately after the statements about the VVD is that they didn't like it very much either. So Mr. Asscher's been looking for that lately, I've noticed all the stuff that's been going on behind something. I'm open here. I was on TV. I used the vocabulary there, and I use it here. I'll ask the questions. Mr Asscher, perhaps you should remember the time when you yourself, as a minister, made very bizarre statements on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u58	Finally. Mr Pechtold says: I was on TV and I am very open. He throws one you-bowl after another my way. I think that is absolutely fine and very good, but I asked a simple political question. Mr Pechtold uses very big words and says: probably Minister Blok does not mean it. That's what he's suggesting a little bit in the question. You can say things to stimulate people. I'm asking what it means if the Minister finds those things. Next I get all kinds of reviews about my performance, for which I am grateful, because then I will do my best again, but I did ask a very serious question. You belong to a coalition party. You put on big pants on TV. Now we're in parliament. I think we all want to know what those words of D66 mean. We save the reviews for another time, but finally I want to know: what if he does? What does that mean for Mr Pechtold, not on TV, but here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u59	We'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u60	I understand very well what Mr Pechtold and Mr Dijkhoff were talking about in the debate: to what extent are statements made within a government agreement and what has been agreed on? Because there aren't just things in there that you really like. In the end, however, this debate does not necessarily concern the question of whether there has been talk within the lines of the coalition agreement. I think everyone agrees that this is not the case. Nor is this debate about whether Mr Blok can return within the lines of the coalition agreement. This debate is ultimately about whether this Minister is still credible as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Halbe Zijlstra colored perfectly within the lines of the coalition chord, but has resigned. He said: the credibility of my office is in danger; therefore I cannot effectively represent the interests of the Netherlands. Is that also the glasses with which D66 enters this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u61	Mr Klaver now outlines what happened around the previous minister and what the reason for this debate is. The reason for the debate is known to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u62	Perhaps I have not formulated the question sharply enough; that will be up to me. I notice that D66 is looking at how the statements fit into the coalition agreement. That is one aspect. The other aspect is the question: can this minister still function as Foreign Minister, does he still have sufficient credibility? Is that also a question that Mr Pechtold wants answered in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u63	I just asked my questions. I am curious to hear the answers to my questions and all other questions, including your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u64	Mr. Klaver, it's going to be a repeat of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u65	I will conclude, but my question is very clear. At the moment, D66 is only barking very loudly and looking at how the statements fit into the coalition agreement. Mr Pechtold himself chose the words: I do not need the opposition to question this cabinet critically. Very good. This is the dualism that Mr Pechtold and I both believe in, but then Mr Pechtold should also be able to say here: I am not only looking at whether this fits into the coalition agreement, but also at what this says about the functioning of the Foreign Minister. It would be a good thing for Mr Pechtold if he were to say so here. That is what determines the way in which Mr Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is going to have to give his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u66	I promise Mr Klaver that I will listen to the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u67	When we were here six months ago, the former Foreign Minister had to resign because a foreign minister must be above all doubt, as he himself said. Does Mr Pechtold agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u68	That is, in general terms, for every foreign minister, or in any other position, anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u69	Can Mr Pechtold state exactly what Mr Blok should say today in order to be literally 'over any doubt'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u70	I have just put that in my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u71	Yes, you have expressed that in your questions, but it is also about credibility. Does Mr Pechtold actually say that if Mr Blok now says that it was a slip of the tongue and that he has failed, it is a slip of the tongue for D66 and we are just going back on the road? Or would Mr Pechtold also like to address the issue of credibility? The question is, I think, and that is what everyone who is looking at this debate at home will think: how credible is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u72	Well, that's why it's important not only to ask the questions, but also to get the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u73	A new question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u74	In conclusion, I would like to compliment Mr Pechtold, because I am getting the feeling that this is a play whose outcome is already known, because at the end of the afternoon he just leaves that man sitting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u75	Let me agree with Mr Kuzu for once! That's something new, isn't it? But without madness, may I ask Mr. Pechtold something? Has he spoken to Minister Blok himself, the Prime Minister, in the preparation of this debate on this issue, and indicated what his commitment is and what he expects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u76	I informed Minister Blok immediately after it appeared in the press that I expected him to give sensible responses to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u77	Did you receive an answer and did you do the same to the Prime Minister in preparation for this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u78	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Wilders once supported a cabinet. We talk a lot, but it is not that I am in any way, in advance of this debate, behind the scenes... No, here in front of the screens I ask my questions. Internally, of course, you state that if this is on the agenda, I am unhappy with the way in which this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u79	So you have internally indicated that you are unhappy for a moment to repeat your own archaic use of words with the method of arrangement? Does this mean that you have indicated internally during the government consultation, that is your own club, but there are also members of the cabinet, or in the discussions with the other political parties and the cabinet that I think you have Monday or Tuesday, that if the minister does not take it back, he will be able to get his hands on your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u80	I do not feel the responsibility to discuss with you everything I discuss internally with anyone, especially when it comes to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u81	Okay, the answer for the people at home is, yes, Mr. Wilders, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Pechtold. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u83	Madam President. When Minister Blok's statements on failing multicultural societies came out, I called Don Ceder. Don's a lawyer in Amsterdam. He fights, among other things, crooked collection agencies. He is a young, promising Dutch man with Surinamese and Ghanaian roots. And since March this year he has been a member of the city council in Amsterdam on behalf of the Christian Union. I was curious to see how Minister Blok's statements had come to him. Don immediately referred to what Minister Blok had said about Eastern European countries, about the insecurity of migrants there and how difficult it would be after those statements to commit ourselves to a fair distribution of refugees across different EU countries. A good and important point. And let me ask you a question about that right away. How effective and credible can a foreign minister now plead on behalf of the Netherlands for a fair distribution of refugees across the various EU countries, including Eastern European countries mentioned by Minister Blok in particular? At the same time, the fact that this was the first and most important point for Don is perhaps also a nice illustration of how self-evident a multicultural society can be. Together with Don I share faith in the Gospel and share social Christian ideals. I work with Don to work on this in political practice. Then I like to note that Don is not hurt in the first place, but that he is concerned about the political consequences of the statements on European migration policy. However, Minister Blok's statements about the lack of examples of successful multicultural societies have touched me, especially since the Minister also said that we are not even genetically inclined to work together and live together and might not even be able to do so. My question is, does he really believe that? Because then all our efforts to make our own multicultural society a success will be hopeless. And I can't believe that. No, I do not close my eyes to haphazard or sometimes self-absorbed integration. On the contrary. The integration of Somalis, for example, is very problematic. If we want to do something about that, it starts with naming the problem. For me, this has also been the motivation to use our formation to reform our integration policies, for a more binding system and integration with real opportunities from day one that the newcomer here is legally part of our society. Where, in our multicultural and multi-religious society, there are sometimes conflicting values, such as freedom of religion or equality between men and women, I think we need to show ourselves to be much more wary of defending and defending our freedoms. That is precisely why I am very motivated to continue to make the fight against jihadism and terrorism possible and to restrict foreign funding from non-free countries from, among other things, Salafist organisations in our country. Nor should we ever accept anti-Semitism or a situation in which ex-Muslims do not feel safe in an azc. If you are committed to the success of a multicultural and multi-religious society, you must be aware of where it goes wrong or threatens to go wrong. If the Minister wanted to say that, he has our support. Nevertheless, I found the statements painful. They suggest that it's nothing with multicultural society and that it can never work. I have a fundamental problem with that. I am a member of a worldwide church and have met followers of Jesus in all kinds of countries and cultures and experienced deep kinship. The church I'm a member of is multicultural. And whatever's wrong with it, I'll never accept that it can never work. In fact, I believe that this multicultural church is only going to be more beautiful. I am part of a society in a multicultural country, with people with a migration background with whom I share the rule of law and our freedoms, with whom I share political ideals, as I do with Don Ceder. Some newcomers are our best citizens, precisely because they come from countries where there is no freedom. In that society we don't all have to be the same either. There is plenty of room to differ, in faith, eating habits, music, political views and social ideals. But what we share and need to share are our rule of law and its freedoms. My crucial question to the Foreign Minister is: is he hopeless when it comes to our multicultural society? It's nothing and it's never gonna work out? Then working on the coalition agreement is a mission impossible, because that wants to bridge gaps, give room for differences, but counteract contradictions. Or does the Minister share my observation that there are indeed problems with integration but that so many newcomers and so many people with a migration background are great residents of this beautiful country? If that is the case, then we can be hopeful for an even more beautiful society, in which there is room for differences but opposites never play us apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u85	Mr. Chairman. A political slipper at the beginning of a summer recess may get a bit out of the picture in the course of the recess. There may be other things that overshadow what has been said or happened. That is not the case with the subject now on the agenda. Minister Blok's statements regularly appeared in the news media. When the cabinet met for the first time on 17 August, the journalists pushed themselves around the minister and his colleagues with questions about his statements. During the informal meeting in the Catshuis on 21 August, the journalists were only concerned with two subjects: the statements of Minister Blok and the abolition of the dividend tax. There is no doubt that we are going to have a detailed discussion on this last subject. As far as I'm concerned, every next week, maybe every day. Today we are talking about what our Foreign Minister said at an informal meeting on 10 July. 50PLUS, like everyone else, was able to read the full text of the Minister on 10 July. As a result, we also see the context in which these statements have been made. Fortunately, we no longer need to discuss whether or not we can address this minister at an informal, closed meeting. Minister Blok himself has made it clear that he finds his agreements unhappy and careless and that he takes back the requested passages. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that is the correct attitude. My group therefore does not need to examine the relevant statements in detail here and to discuss with the Minister whether or not his observations are in line with reality. For let us be honest and very clear: on the subjects on which we are dealing, everyone has their own reality. There are parties in this house who agree with the Minister. Others say they're disgusted about it. Even within the Dutch population, society, opinions differ widely. For our group, it is important to what extent these unfortunate and careless statements have harmed our international position. Because it makes a difference whether this kind of statement, especially when it comes to other countries, comes from a minister, for example, from agriculture, or from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister said that he had had contact with his colleagues in Poland and the Czech Republic about the comments he had made on these countries. We would like to hear from the Minister what the relationship with these countries is now. Have they accepted the excuses and are they proceeding to the diplomatic order of the day, or is there still damage to mutual relations? What other countries has the Minister been in contact with and how have these contacts been conducted? The comments about Poland and the Czech Republic were rather short, but naming Suriname as a failed state is even worse. After the first apology by the Surinamese government was considered insufficient, the Minister would reconnect. We would like to hear how that contact went and what the result is. Has the Prime Minister also contributed to the restoration of diplomatic peace in cases where it seemed very high? The answer to the previous questions will determine Mr Blok's position. Can he continue to do his job as Foreign Minister without harm after his apology, withdrawal of comments and contact, or has it been in practice rushing and walking? That is the key question for us: is he still credible abroad and can he still operate as such? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u86	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a small country. It's also a great country. We're a country in the middle of the world. We know how to play our part on the world stage. That is why a foreign minister is crucial to ensure that we retain the special position we have as a country in the coming years. The Netherlands is a small country. And a very special country. A great country when you look at how we manage to live peacefully with so many different people, with all the problems that exist. Day in, day out, there are people who fight to make that living together possible. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we have a government, ministers and a Minister for Foreign Affairs who do not prejudice these two matters, but contribute to them. This summer, the Foreign Minister managed to work in an impossible position. With man and power has been tried to repair the damage that has been done: in letters and in conversations with fellow ministers. One of those letters said the beauty: these words of the minister should not be understood as a free letter for racism and exclusion. So it has come to this point that as a minister you have to explain that the words you have used are not intended to legitimise racism and exclusion. I do not know if the Minister has just heard Mr Wilders. I think he read it differently. And yes, the Minister says: I have been careless. Could the Minister explain to me how he should have told the story he was telling carefully? Can he go into that? What does the Minister say to all those people in the Netherlands that day in, day out, running into problems in the neighbourhoods where they live, where there is a lot of diversity, and who still try to make it a fantastic success every day and take it a step further? What does he say to all those people who are trying to get through to someone who might not understand them too well or who is doing something they feel is weird? What does he say to all those "diplomats" in the Dutch neighbourhoods trying to live together? What does the Minister say to his officials? Hundreds of officials signed a letter. The phrase that has remained with me in that letter: "diplomacy is built on the idea that nations and cultures can work together peacefully and live together, as long as you are willing to engage in the conversation; if you are willing to listen." That is at the heart of the description given by this minister's officials of what diplomacy is. If you say that cultures are unable to live peacefully with each other, how can you lead our diplomatic service? I would like to hear a reflection from the Foreign Minister on this. What does the Minister say to all these other countries? I would like a feedback on the discussions that have been held so far, how relations have been restored. What strikes me is that there is constant reference to Paramaribo, to Poland, the Czech Republic, the countries he has offended. But I am curious to see how the response has been in Paris, in Berlin, in London. I am curious to see how Dutch diplomacy is being discussed in those capitals which are important for the Netherlands, and how these embassies are putting that back. I'm trying to imagine that. Yeah, you know, a couple of months ago we had a bit of a fling with the Foreign Minister, because he was or hadn't been in a dasha; now we've got someone who was a little puffy and free philosophizing and has made some statements about genes and about multicultural society. What is the current view of the Netherlands in the world? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. "Today we are talking about the credibility of the Foreign Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and that credibility must be beyond any doubt, both domestic and foreign. Because that's the only way he can operate abroad without hesitation. Only in this way can he fully and fully defend the interests of all citizens and businesses in the Netherlands, on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. And only in this way can he operate abroad without hesitation." With these words, on 14 February last, Halbe Zijlstra strikingly summarized what would be at stake if the Minister of Foreign Affairs made a slipper. Shortly after these words were spoken, Mr Zijlstra concluded that he could not continue to function as Foreign Minister. I would like to hear from this Minister how he looks at these words and against this standard laid down by the previous Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u88	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u89	Madam President. Today we look back at the summer recessrel of 2018. The political crime has taken place a week or eight ago and the story has not escaped anyone's attention. In a closed meeting of Dutch people working for international organisations, the usually thoughtful Minister Blok, after a very nuanced speech.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. When some disgruntled visitors delivered these theories to the press with image and sound ready-to-use, there was local noise in the interior and also in foreign countries that were addressed, or felt addressed. A good week after the meeting, the Minister indicated in a letter of office that he had used "unlucky images and too sharp words." A month later, the Minister again expressed his regret in reply to Parliament's questions. In short, the Minister has generously put on the dress of penance. Madam President. Let me say first of all that a speaker should choose his or her words with great care when making statements that become known to a large anonymous audience. Especially when you hold the special office of Minister for Foreign Affairs, diplomatic language is highly recommended. You have to bear in mind that separate statements that come under the magnifying glass can lead their own lives. Even in confidential meetings, it can't hurt to set a guard in front of our lips. But I would add, in one breath, that there is nothing wrong with a minister in meetings like this not being enough with a neat, irritable, politically correct speech, but also in the question-and-answer game, which seeks more discussion and leads to discussion. Very useful. It also makes this kind of saturated meetings a lot more interesting. I hope, therefore, that all the fuss will not lead to ministers being shy of having a more intense discussion in internal meetings. Returning to the case we are now discussing, I note that what went wrong in our perception is that the Minister apparently assumed that it was a private meeting that was of a confidential nature. How come the visitors apparently didn't have that image? This error of assessment has been brought to the attention of the Minister. You could say he got himself a lot of community service. During the summer he had to put out a lot of fires in Suriname, Aruba, Curaçao and all the other countries. I am confident that the Minister has learned his lesson with this and that the chance that he will use too sharp statements again in this kind of meetings should not be underestimated. A relevant question, which I find really sensible and serious in this political debate, is to what extent, with the clarification given or the regret expressed, the foreign commotion has actually been removed? Or does it still stick to it? What's the Minister's impression? Finally. I had to remember that in this Chamber in 2004 we had the debate on the multicultural society following the report of the Blok committee, Bruggen. It was a time when, fortunately, it was no longer politically taboo to point the finger at serious problems and tensions that living together between people of different cultures can lead to and therefore it can be wise to pursue a reserved admission policy to the Netherlands. The SGP still thinks so. At the same time, that debate and that committee showed that there must and may be an eye for the things that are going well. That too may, may and should be appointed. That is not easy in a broken world where sometimes it seems to be in our genes to seek safety with our own similar group, whether African tribes or related correct Dutch. Against that natural propensity, we need a lot of resistance. I find this counter-force in the Christian realization that every fellow man, no matter how different he or she is, is my neighbor and that we should never fall into easy enemy images against others. That sense of reality and relativization make exactly the difference in a society with differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. Time heals all wounds. That is what the Foreign Minister has probably been holding on to since July. He has few supporters in this house for his views that have caused worldwide turmoil. The previous Foreign Minister had to leave prematurely because of made-up visits to a world leader's datha. His successor had to ensure more solidity and stability. No, I didn't. Again, we have a foreign minister who has to wallow in excuses, not only to us, but also to other countries. The VVD spokesperson, Foreign Affairs, called the statements "poor." As far as we are concerned, they are unacceptable, a minister unworthy and offensive to large groups of citizens. Unfortunately, however, the outcome of this debate seems to be settled again, as is the case with the forthcoming Second Chamber debate on the abolition of dividend taxation or the expulsion of two children who belong in Dutch society. Now it is about saving a minister who has made it impossible for himself and has damaged the reputation of the Netherlands. Mr President, you and I know that the smallest possible majority in this house is blocking its formation out of body retention. In his statements, the Minister mentions Suriname as a failed state. I would like to ask the Minister for a little more modesty. Doesn't that qualification really apply mainly to his own party? From a president who, in a very dubious way, takes away their mutual cremation society from the elderly to a prime minister who, with a grant of EUR 2 billion, helps his friends at Unilever. Politicians are considered to serve the public interest. In the Netherlands of Rutte, the political office has turned into the defence of the interests of an inner circle. It's a far-reaching form of clientelism. What the minister demonstrated with his statements was misplaced superiority. Protecting the interests of our kind of people, that's what this coalition is all about. D66 and the Christian Union seem to have already committed themselves to supporting this because the coalition interest is more important than the general interest. In the meantime, the Minister has expressed several regrets. That regret seems to be mainly about leaking. He would have preferred to keep it in the inner circle. What we want to hear today is whether the Minister has also changed his mind. Does he really believe that there are genetic causes for community spirit? What does he mean and what doesn't he mean about his shattering drink talk? And does he think that, as a foreign minister, he is more credible with such statements than a foreign minister who invented visits to world leaders? Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about the functioning of a single minister but about the standing of politics. Citizens are reading every day about the changing geopolitical situation and growing international uncertainty. They themselves become insecure and feel insecurity. Climate change, refugees, civil wars, increasing inequalities, and the Netherlands as a welfare state for multinationals and with its disproportionate ecological footprint internationally plays a disruptive role. That is what the foreign policy of the Netherlands should be about. That is what citizens expect from us and from a foreign minister. But what does this minister do? Instead of seeking cooperation with other countries in order to resolve these issues, he turns people against each other. Mr. Chairman. Will this debate be a ritual dance again because the result is already established? Are we actually wasting our time with a ritual dance of a minister who gave himself a license of inability but still wants to stay on, because he can still look himself in the mirror? These are winged words, which have been heard in many farewell speeches of damaged VVD ministers, leaders and representatives of the people in recent years. I would like to ask the question again: does not the qualification 'failed state' particularly apply to ourselves, to the minister's party? A parliamentary debate, the outcome of which has already been established, in the spirit of the coalition, is a parody of democracy and an insult to the electorate. It is to be hoped that the citizen will intervene in the Provincial State elections and indirectly in the First Chamber elections, in order to prevent us from slipping into a failed state. In this context, too, I believe that we must put an end to the bio-industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u92	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u93	Madam President. The statements of the Foreign Minister were undiplomatic. We've also referred to them as rude before. Freedom of expression does not apply to ministers in office. I find it curious that you make a video of it in a pre-decided or not completely confidential setting, if you hear something weird and that leaks and doesn't get up to ask if you have understood this correctly and what is meant and to say that you find these strange lyrics. But the risks and the consequences are for the minister. It is my belief that he had never chosen these words and said them in this way if he knew there was a camera here. That is also my conviction when I read his answer to the questions asked. It's not just the Minister's job to get excited, is it? The answers to the questions asked are sufficient for me. I know the Minister as someone who engages with conviction in the debate and provokes others to justify what they say. I hope he will continue to do so, but in more diplomatic terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u94	In Mr Dijkhoff's speech, it seems as if someone in line at the Albert Heijn heard something say and walked with it to the newspaper. But this was not the case: people were invited several times, it was a meeting with Dutch people working abroad. That's where the minister went to speak, he got a speech with it, his officials knew he wanted to speak freely. That camera was put there by the officials, so that people in the adjoining rooms could see it as well. So it's not so weird that it was recorded. In other words, can people who are invited to listen to one of our ministers assume that if he says something there, he will?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u95	If he had said it in line at the Albert Heijn, I would have found it even weirder, so out of the blue. What you see is someone filming the screens on which it is broadcast. I find that account and risk minister. Even if it's a private setting, it's wiser to use more diplomatic words. I just find it a curious element and regrettable that, if you get an invitation to just have a free exchange of views with the minister and you hear something that you think is weird, nobody gets up and asks: what do you mean by this? Then the discussion could have developed further and I think the picture would have been clearer and more nuanced. Again, I think that is a curious turn of events, and I did not want to leave that unnamed, because I think that a lot of people, including politicians, including us, should also be able to have the opportunity to engage in discussions and discussions, and not just to answer questions by reading a cabinet letter. But the risk and the consequences are for the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u96	Thank you for that answer. I fully agree with you: please, engage in the discussion and make a debate lively. The problem is, of course, the content of those statements, and not so much that it is curious that someone goes outside with them. Again, the problem is the content. Does Mr Dijkhoff also understand that the people who were there were shocked, surprised and perhaps even angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u97	Yes, Mr President, I think that's why someone thought: I didn't ask any questions about it then, but I find it so curious, I'm going to share this with others. That must have been the motive, I'm guessing. But I was not there and I do indeed like to go into the content in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u98	I think this is pretty fancy and classy. What is said here is that it is actually ridiculous that it was filmed. Instead of starting to deal with the content of the text, you will come back to it later. You will start with: this simply should not have been filmed, I find it curious, because otherwise the Minister would have been more diplomatic. I have to think of Minister Nawijn, who made a difference between the person Nawijn and the Minister Nawijn. The Minister is always Minister, whether it is decided or not. He pronounces all the words he says as a minister and as a member of the Dutch cabinet. So why did Mr Dijkhoff choose to start by saying: is it really a disgrace and is it ridiculous that someone has filmed this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u99	Mr Klaver could have asked the question without twisting my words or using words I did not say. I did not say that it was a disgrace, I regretted that no one in the room where you could have a free exchange of views asked what the Minister meant, but that it was being filmed, thrown into the press and thus came out. I do think the difference is important. I still find it clumsy and rude that the Minister used those words, including in that setting. I repeat: do not do that in that setting. But for me, it is important to make an assessment of the public that the Minister thinks he should address with his words. And I'm sure he can explain that himself, too, if he had spoken on TV or here in the room, knowing that he would have a greater reach, and without the context of a stimulating discussion. That says something to me about the intention and views the Minister has on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u100	I've rarely heard such a line of defense. So basically Mr Dijkhoff says here: look, you can really say very rabid things, but how bad that is depends a little on how many people listen to it. Of course he would have at least, I hope, chosen other words if he had done this on television, because then he would have had a huge problem. The problem is that we can expect a minister to choose his words carefully, whether he is talking to two or four people or in a football stadium. I really don't understand this line of defense that the VVD now chooses, to say "yes, but he thought this was confidential; this was decided and he thought this could be done." These are words you don't pronounce as minister. And then I come back to the point that Mr Dijkhoff chooses to say: I am sorry that people have not risen to say anything about this. This suggests that the problem lies with the person who filmed and not with Minister Blok. And that's really very fancy of the VVD, very fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u101	The only one who has raised that suggestion by putting it in my mouth where it does not come from is Mr Klaver. Mr Klaver is so caught up in his version of The Hague that he thinks I am building a line of defence here. I'm not building a line of defense. I'll go into the contents in a moment. The Minister can just explain what he needs. A line of defense. Get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u102	Mr Dijkhoff...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u103	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u104	I'm just giving my opinion on this. I give my opinion on the matter and I have already said three times that the Minister should have chosen different words in that setting too. So don't go running to me saying I don't have to, because I've repeated that four times already. Don't make it into something I'm not saying. If you say you're listening, do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u105	This has changed enough, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u106	Certainly, Mr President, I will not go into that point, but I am being addressed about the way in which I am conducting this debate, so I would like to say something about that. Mr Dijkhoff has been chairman of the political group for a year. And as long as things get a little tricky in the coalition, he's got two things he's falling back on. Either he jokes about it or he says, "Don't put words in my mouth." I'm not putting words in your mouth, Mr. Dijkhoff. I will explain exactly what you have said and what suggestion you are awakening here. Maybe after a year it's time to expand your arsenal in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u107	Then maybe I can copy something from you. I didn't use the word "shame." That's what I've really been put in my mouth. You can listen to that for yourself and see it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u108	I will not discuss what Mr Dijkhoff has said or is not said or put in the mouth. I have a clear question for him. He gave me the impression that the Minister could say these words if only in private. My question is: do you think so? Did I hear that right in your words? Two: you are also familiar with the fact that with the current media the telephone and everything that is possible in a room of communication from the inside to the outside does not happen in private anymore? Depending on the first answer, I do not understand how you reach this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u109	Thank you for these questions. I'll peel off all the elements. I think that as a minister, that's how I told myself when I was in the cabinet, in these modern times, it should always be taken into account that it's coming out on the street. I agree. Then I find the words that have been chosen... Nor did we say in our response: the words are fine; it is a pity that they have been leaked. We have said: they are rude; the words are rude. In any context, I find them clumsy. In addition, I do not think that we should draw the conclusion from this that you should limit yourself, with other words than those used, to reading cabinet letters, especially in such a discussion with people who understand them all, who come once in a while and with whom you want to exchange thoughts. You may stimulate and challenge, but these words should not have been used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u110	I have not yet received an answer to the first question. Do you think the Minister could have put it that way if it had really been decided? Those meetings are in theory, but in practice hardly. That question is, of course, the essence, because it is about what he has said and not about whether or not that can be done in a closed or open meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u111	Exactly. I think you should be able to speak a private setting more freely and more stimulatingly, but this choice of words is still undiplomatic and rude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u112	I do not want to talk about 'defense lines', but I ask why you start your speech by giving the impression that it could have been done if it had really been in private.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u113	That question has just been asked by Mr Klaver. It's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u114	No, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, a little too, but I ask the question my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u115	I didn't say it could have been done in private. I didn't say it was a disgrace that it was filmed and that the blame was on whoever filmed it. I did point out that I think it is a curious part that is underexposed and I thought as an eleventh speaker: let me start in a different way, with another subject. Everyone wakes up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u116	That was the same answer as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u117	I wonder if Mr Dijkhoff has read the transcript by now, because he thought I was just putting words in the mouth of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u118	Yeah, I read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u119	But did you also see that the Foreign Minister said that he is pragmatic in dealing with xenophobia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u120	No, he gets a question about xenophobia and then he says, "I'm pragmatic about that." That is different from what you say: xenophobia is fine; we deal with that relaxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u121	"I am very pragmatic about xenophobia"; that is indeed the literal quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u123	I wonder whether Mr Dijkhoff is also pragmatic about xenophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u124	I am pragmatic about the fact that it is regrettable and scandalous enough that xenophobia is widespread in the world, that it is a very persistent and morally scandalous element in our human history and that it does not work to put it under the hat, when it occurs, or to say that it is due to external factors. I still think it is one of the saddest things in all our human civilization that xenophobia is still so persistent. That is what I read about. Then I see a parallel: that persistence is not really imposed on the outside. So it is something that you must continue to realize that it can rise up, that it does not go away by itself and that you must replace it with a new unity in order to overcome xenophobia. I shall return to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u125	I shall wait for that part of Mr Dijkhoff's speech. I do have a question about the reaction of former MP Ten Broeke. He used the qualification "lomp" especially for the qualification of Suriname as "failed state," but I did not read the qualification of the VVD of the comments about multicultural society and peaceful society. I wonder how Mr Dijkhoff appreciates these statements. Are they rude, too? Or does he have another qualification for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u126	I was going to give it a fairly extensive qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u127	Good. Then I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u128	Mr. Chairman. Then the contents. Most of the fuss arose as a result of what the Minister said about integration. For the VVD it is simple: we want a country, a Netherlands, in which people of different cultures, religions and ethnic backgrounds live peacefully and happily together. That's a good ambition, but it's not gonna happen on its own. Fortunately, many people are well integrated into our society and are also part of a stronger Netherlands. That does not alter the fact that there are still a lot of problems. People who do not embrace our guiding values of freedom and equality. People who don't know how to handle free women and gays. People who deliberately discriminate and put others away because of their background. So there is a lot of work to be done and there are still a lot of problems to overcome. As happens too often in the discussion, the whole squad says that you cannot say that there are problems. That doesn't help anyone. That blocks a good discussion about the real problems that exist in the Netherlands. That's a damaging reflex. I want to achieve that goal of living happily with all of us, but that can only be achieved if we do not close our eyes to things that go wrong and stand in the way, for the risks that people all lock themselves in their little circles, for the fact that confidence is reduced when there are different cultures living together in a neighborhood without a common connection, without shared values and without mutual trust and for the fact that a lot of people are well integrated in our society, but unfortunately not very much either. That first group, which integrates well, should not be addressed to the abuses of the other. The student girl of Moroccan origin has nothing to do with the gesis of a hoodie asshole. If you are a good people and embrace our guiding values of freedom and equality, you are one of them. If you don't, that's a problem. This leads to tribalisation and segregation rather than integration. The multicultural society in all its factuality as a country in which several cultures live peacefully and happily together is fine, but it is a bit of a chewed-out term. For many people it stands for a certain type of policy and attitude. The policy of "let it blow, it'll be okay, it won't say anything about it, that's their culture, who are we to judge?" failed. Despite this policy, many are well integrated, but we will need to be clearer in our values. That goes both ways. Firstly, it must be clear that freedom and equality are unnegotiable, that the achievements of our free country are only there if you endorse and cherish them, that we do not tolerate intolerance and that we expect you to choose the leading values of the Netherlands in the event of a clash between your old culture and ours. Secondly, it must be made clear that if you do that, you are also part of it. Your last name, skin color or religion doesn't matter. You'll be a full part of society. You didn't fight hard for that for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u129	Mr Dijkhoff has a nice story here about the achievements in our country which I do not think anyone here in the Chamber disagrees with. My point, of course, is that Mr Blok said in the meeting, whether it is closed or not, that it would be in our genes that we cannot relate properly to unknown groups. What does Mr Dijkhoff think of that? Does he agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u130	When I look at history and at people who know how that went and what is genetic and what is not, I see that there is a considerable need in us for solidarity and security and for a group in which we can be ourselves, with which we share values and with which we trust each other. I also see in history that if two of these groups collide, it does not automatically lead to "gosh, let's talk about it and form a new group." However, it leads to many challenges. If you want to live together peacefully in a country like the Netherlands and you want there to be no distinctive race, culture and ethnicity, you must have a new shared relationship and new values that you all support. You have to have a mutual trust that transcends all that. Then it's good. You will therefore have to be very hard on, for example, the orthodox versions of religions that challenge shared values of a country. Then you will have to be very hard on salafism or worse because they try to infringe the common relationship in which all these different backgrounds can live together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u131	That is a very long answer from Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u132	Yes. It's also a difficult subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u133	It's definitely a... Well, I don't know if it's such a difficult subject. I think the answer is no. If I listen carefully to Mr Dijkhoff, he does not think that Mr Blok should distance himself from what he has said. Do you think this is just a crude formulation? Or do you not actually agree with it and agree with it? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u134	But then we move away from the content. My party is never so much at the forefront when ministers of any colour say something from a cabinet that is not entirely cabinet policy, ask for a distance, ask for an apology and open debates. But that has more to do with an attitude. I can disagree with someone; I can just tell him that. Whether someone should take his words back: we're just a little more relaxed in that. So take back the whole matter of words: I think it is wise to point out that the Minister indicates how he looks at it. And I'll listen to that. And if that is very similar to what I think, then of course I am happy and if it falls within cabinet policy, then it is what it must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u135	Mr Dijkhoff is'relaxter', but does Mr Dijkhoff not easily ignore the fact that Mr Blok is not only a VVD colleague from the country, but also happens to be our foreign minister, who has to act as a diplomat and indeed does not have the room to philosophize about what he actually thinks? He should express himself diplomatically everywhere and whenever he does not, he directly harms the interests of our country. Does Mr Dijkhoff take this into account in order to relax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u136	Certainly, but we have also read the letters that the Minister has already sent in the meantime and in which he has explained. That gives me the confidence that the Minister looks back in a healthy way on the undiplomatic/poor choice of words and that, as Mr Van der Staaij called it, we can trust that this will not have a repeat. He has done a great deal towards the countries concerned to ensure that there can be a good working relationship again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u137	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u138	I am very curious how Mr Dijkhoff thinks that Mr Blok could come back from that in a good way. I have another question, and it is also about the content that Mr Dijkhoff is so keen to talk about. Can Mr Dijkhoff, like Mr Blok, not mention any multicultural society in which there is a peaceful society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u139	Depends on the way you look at it. I think there are many societies in which different cultures live together more or less peacefully. There are also societies in which a number of cultures live peacefully together but one is always the shaak. This is often seen in Eastern Europe, for example in the Roma population. It often goes well there, except with them. In some countries we see that three religions live well together, but the fourth is pushed out of it. So it is not a black and white story, but at least I can see that if it has been possible to live peacefully together to a greater or lesser extent, it has taken a great deal of work and unfortunately a lot of time and, even more regrettablely, often also the necessary violence. I think that's bad. That is not the purpose, but you have to recognize it to see how difficult the task we are giving ourselves here is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u140	By way of correction, the fuss this summer wasn't about that. If Mr Blok had said that there are problems, that it is very difficult to live with different cultures, that there are the necessary challenges in the Netherlands and that there are many problems in the neighbourhoods that are culturally very diverse, as the WRR has shown, then I do not think there would have been any trouble in the air. Where was the problem? That's more fundamental. That's what it's all about about genetics and about villages that you want to maintain with each other and especially about not knowing countries in the world where people live peacefully with each other. That shows that there is no hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u141	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u142	It is clear that it is not possible to live together with different cultures. My question is this. I hear Mr Dijkhoff saying how he looks at it. That's clear to me. But how does he feel about the Minister, who has almost become fatalistic, not saying that it is possible to live together, no matter how difficult it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u143	I don't know him as fatalistic. So I am also confident that this hope will be reflected in his response. I do know him as realistic. I may indeed be a little broader than what the debate is focusing on in this Chamber because most of the people who have asked questions to our party asked us more about this issue. I would like to use this debate to make it clear to the people who are looking with interest how my party thinks about this issue. I think that's a little more important than the questions "what exactly did he say?" And "is he literally taking it back or halfway back?'. But I'll take care of that personally. I'm hopeful about it. I think I forgot the first half of Mr Klaver's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u144	That's the downside of long questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u145	I think I agree more with Mr Pechtold and his view of what it is like to be a representative of the people. Of course, it is important that we highlight the views of our parties on issues, but you are also standing here to monitor the Minister. That is why it is important to know exactly what he has said, how he is in the competition, how he looks at our society. That is your job, Mr Dijkhoff; you are no longer a member of the cabinet. You are a member of this Chamber and you must check the Minister. It is therefore important to know what the Minister has said about this. It is important for us, and also for your own voters, to know whether you also think that you can expect the Minister to be hopeful about what can happen in society. That is very difficult and there are many challenges ahead of us. I would like Mr Dijkhoff to take that up. That was the first part of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u146	I'm sorry to laugh, but I had to remember the remark about a limited arsenal and then come back to it that I'm not in the cabinet anymore. I know. I just explained how I look at it. Checking the minister, I'm sure. The Minister also wrote the necessary letters and replied to Parliament's questions. That makes it sufficiently clear to me how he's in the game. I assume that in his reply he will be even clearer how he is in it and that this will not be extremely different from the way in which I have just explained it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u147	In his speech, Mr Dijkhoff talks about a bad brigade that would think that you should not name any problems. He then refers to the problems that we frequently mention here and to which we are trying to do something. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is whether it helps if you want to name problems and solve them, to explain the problems that exist, the tensions, genetically? Does it help to say that you don't know a peaceful society where people of different origins live together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u148	Not that last one, that's not helping. It would be more nuanced to draw attention to the countries that have already come to an end in this area, but also to the fact that even in the countries where it is best, it is not good enough and that all those countries where they have had quite a success in this area have spent a great deal of time and energy on it and that it did not happen automatically. So the latter isn't helping. And the first is genetics. I do not think that you should make the scientific discussion political, but that it does help to provide you with as much scientific knowledge as possible in trying to understand the challenges that lie behind problems. Of course, you cannot take an element out of that and say: this is what everything comes from. At least it can help with your own imagery, but I wouldn't want to politicize that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u149	I very much agree with Mr Dijkhoff, but that is, of course, the effect of what happened there. Therefore, besides the fact that it is good to tell what you stand for as a party, a judgment on what has happened now. Mr Dijkhoff says that he has all seen extensive apologies. I value that slightly differently, I actually think that's a bit of an excuse like: "I regret the fuss" and: "It was decided and it was meant to excite." If you're really sorry and you don't mean it, it's not the way to apologize. I think it's important, even if you're relaxing or pragmatic, that sometimes when people color outside the lines of the coalition agreement and when you say things that are really counterproductive and hurt those people, you really apologize for that. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u150	I would prefer the Minister to tell us later how he looks at it and then I can value it, rather than saying in advance: I want to hear this and this and you have to do this and this. I also sincerely want to know what he's like in there, and I have a great deal of faith in that. Anyway, maybe that trust is a little faster if it's your party mate. I'm sure that's genetic. I am not going to ask for an apology, because I think that Mr Blok himself, as I read it, thinks: I should never have done this. I leave it to him to answer this later, and I have every confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u151	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u152	Finally. I realize that the question may seem a little sharp when I do not want to genetically compare all VVDs at all, because that is what I think is very wrong. However, my question is genuine: do you object to what has been said? It's called rude, not convenient and undiplomatic. I find this important because otherwise there may be an atmosphere that fits some of the phenomena around the VVD: the problem is not that it has been said or that he finds it, the problem is that it has been discovered and brought out. I think that is a very strange approach and that would be very wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u153	Maybe it's an indirect answer to your question, but I'll just tell you what came to mind when I read it and how I switched it at the time: the reasoning is not complete, so you leave the room for people to draw a conclusion. And it's not surprising that they do, because the reasoning is not complete. If it's building blocks for a reasoning that ends well and which I'm taking the space for right now... I don't always just say: no, none of it is true. But because that reasoning is not finished, you have the impression or suspicion on you, or other people read in it, that you will probably mean certain things. If you say it's genetically tricky and a preference... I've read many praised books about that. I think we all had those on the reading list this summer: Sapiens and Homo Deus. Those aren't hopeless books. They are very hard and sobering about the history in the beginning. If you just say that, then you run the risk that people say: oh, so you mean that there must only be homogeneous societies. That's the trick of not finishing that reasoning, and I think that's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u154	I would like to make a final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u155	Thanks for the answer. Look, what's bothering me is this. You say, "I don't know of a peaceful multiethnic society. In fact, I asked my officials for an example and I did not get it." That doesn't sound like a reasoning you build up to finish. So I'd like to agree with you, but it doesn't sound like that to me. You say, "I'm gonna tell you what's going on. My officials have not been able to give me an example, nor have you. Good luck with that!'. That's what you hear in the exchange. That doesn't sound like a reasoning you're starting out on, does it? Can you finish that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u156	No, that reasoning is finished, but that is precisely where the previous reasoning is lacking. Genetics don't kill them. This ends with a conclusion and with a rather exciting theorem, which then has to collide and on which you can spar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u157	The last time I looked at the minister, he was Foreign Minister and not a scientist. I'm hearing all kinds of theories about genetics now. I assume from the transcript and the transcript states that the Foreign Minister states that we are not in a good position to engage with our unknown people. As Foreign Minister, you speak on behalf of the Netherlands. Then you ask yourself, who does he mean by "we"? At least I'm not! The question to Mr Dijkhoff is: what does he think of the Foreign Minister making this statement as Foreign Minister? In his field of work, he is constantly in contact with people who are unknown to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u158	Then you translate a general view into a personal comment on the character of the minister. He can say what he needs to say. But I've already given them qualifications that aren't very flattering. So I don't know if I should use another word to satisfy you, but I've already called it "straight" and "undiplomatic" and "not good," and I said he shouldn't have used those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u159	It's been repeated a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u160	But, Mr President, that was not my question at all. Mr Dijkhoff is free to choose his own words. My question is very specific. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, he comes into daily contact with people who don't look like him. That's his job as Secretary of State. It is very strange, however, that the Foreign Minister says: we are unable to commit to those groups of people because they are unknown to us. Then my question is: is he, according to Mr Dijkhoff, suitable as Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u161	Yes, because we're not asking those countries to merge. So you're now making "binding" something very individual from a general observation. I have already said that it should have been left out of the observation. But you're acting like you can't talk to someone else with that image. I also see in the many examples I have heard today that you can go beyond those things if you share something new. I liked Mr Segers' example of that international church. There are all kinds of backgrounds, where there is a very strongly shared religious connection.I assume for a moment that he is monoreligious. So that shared connection transcends all the other backgrounds. Once you meet someone you've never met in that context, you know: we already share a lot of values. Within the European Union, you have that with your fellow countries: you share a lot of values. In NATO context, you share them too. And as countries continue to give away from you, you already have less shared values. As a foreign minister, I believe that you should be very good at listening and showing understanding for the opinions of others, even if they are completely different from our culture. I think you should look for where the interests lie and see how you can bring them together or convince someone else through his background to do what we think is important, instead of just keeping your own story. 'Cause that's gonna go to hell when that doesn't fit their worldview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u162	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u163	In this sense, the Foreign Minister also has to deal with countries that we do not always agree with. Then it's important to have empathy, to become connected. I would almost call it the realpolitik of the VVD. In that case, it is an important condition, an important ingredient for a foreign minister, to be able to make that commitment. I see that Mr Dijkhoff is constantly avoiding the question. It's not an individual question. The Foreign Minister says: us! As far as we are concerned, it is a demand for a foreign minister to be able to make that commitment. How does Mr Dijkhoff feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u164	In fact, I think that a foreign minister should restore diplomatic ties in our interest, even if the bonds are just as shabby by the other side. Imagine if there's a country that calls us Nazis, then we'll have to restore diplomatic ties after that. Then you don't have to put on a deep bond with it right away. First you have to fix the tapes and open the conversation at the level of interest. Then later you can see if we can grow culturally towards each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u165	Thank you. I think you were done, weren't you? Oh, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u166	Mr Dijkhoff said that he was hopeful about the course of the debate and that he was relaxed in it, as he himself said. I'm a little less relaxed myself. I think it is very good that we are having this debate. The Minister has entered into the discussion with his officials, which we have heard the necessary unrest about. Wherever that was necessary, he had a conversation with foreign colleagues. Wherever that was necessary, he also set things right. In general, he also stated that the words were not well sought. He used words such as "sorry" and "excuse." All this is of course very important, but I hope that Mr Dijkhoff agrees with me that it is particularly important that he does so here, so that there is no further misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u167	I take note of that. We have also supported this debate so that the Minister can say everything he has written, with all the questions relating to paper patience, but also quite abstract and chilly here too. Then everyone can see what he's saying and make his decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u168	I'm getting a bad feeling about it anyway. Why do you keep bowing to Pechtold? Why don't you just back up your minister a little more? Why don't you say, "Well, I did, too?" Maybe you don't agree with all the words. I agree with you: you need to be more relaxed in that. You don't have to weigh every word whether it's true or not. But the spirit of what Mr Blok said is right. You just gave a picture of it, too. People also think it's right that he said that. Why don't you just say: Mr Blok's spirit, perhaps with a few words here and there, was great and we support it? Why don't you say: I support this minister, Mr. Pechtold, stop whining about excuses and he didn't mean it and he needs to talk to everyone? Get behind your minister a little bit more!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u169	I'll put the balance back in. So far, I've been accused of defending him too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u170	I am talking about Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u171	I prefer not to talk about words, too short or too broad or about intentions. I'm just telling the story on behalf of my party, about how we see it. Then I'll answer the questions. I told the media yesterday that I have every confidence in Mr Blok and that I support him, also because he has reflected on his words. He'll tell you what he needs to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u172	But that's not my point. I do not, of course, come forward until Mr Pechtold has walked forward here. That's the context. In his term, Mr Pechtold said that yesterday was also in Parool about: excuses, he didn't mean it, he must believe in multicultural society and he must take it back. I just called it a political castration. Those are my words. But it's a huge humiliation. At the end of your term he gets up again and repeats it to you again. Where are those VVDs who say: stop it, Mr. Pechtold, our cabinet is worth a lot to us, but we will not be humiliated; Mr. Blok has struck a few words after a raging string and spoken the truth? Why don't you say: I'm with this minister; sit down again, Pechtold; sit down, I'm not going to say on your command that it's all right? Why don't you? Why are you listening to this man?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u173	I have also questioned Mr Pechtold about the other parts of the coalition agreement. The Minister shall implement the coalition agreement. As a cabinet member, your freedom of expression is a little more limited than as an ordinary Dutchman or MP. For me, it's about whether the minister stays within the government agreement. I have read something in the newspaper about hoops and of course I think 'well, it will be', but I have not yet heard Mr Pechtold ask me to go beyond taking back the coalition agreement or things from it. So I think he's entitled to say, "Oh, we all have a coalition agreement." Is that true and is this minister behind it? If it would go on then... But I didn't hear him say that, so why should I speculate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u174	Finally. I also said it to Mr Pechtold himself: Mr Pechold also demands from the Minister that he at least ask him to say that he did not really mean what he said. Those are impossible questions. He's just pissing you off. You're just being held hostage by that man over there. First he's lecturing the minister. Then he is the only one who says 'as group chairman I am doing this debate', which, of course, requires you to do it, because you have to protect him. And then he gets up at the end of your term to lecture you. Give him hell, stand behind your minister, don't be so careful! I don't get it. Minister Blok has said very good things. A large part of the VVD's agree with that. That guy over there is ruining the party. He's making sure you all get off the VVD on your knees. Be a man! Tell him not to interfere. Questions about the coalition agreement, I understand, but asking him not to mean what he said... Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u175	An interesting psychological observation of the interrelationships, which I cannot quite place. In my opinion, everyone here can ask the Minister what he wants and the Minister should simply explain what he thinks of these subjects and what he thinks of them. Then everyone can then weigh whether he or she thinks that is good answers or not. I didn't register it like that. I'm just standing up to keep my own story up and people now know how we as a VVD look at this theme. That seems to me to be the profit of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u176	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u177	Madam President. A foreign minister who has to apologize for a summer to other countries and people and groups in the Netherlands has done something wrong. The Minister's statements have caused people to frown the eyebrows. In preparation for this debate, I myself took up the transcript of the much discussed meeting. So I can't come to a different conclusion than: this was stupid. It was inevitable that this would be followed by an apology. The Minister begins his speech, which I have read, considered and with a number of sensible things, but at some point it seems or suddenly all the stops are coming. I quote, so that it is clear what I am talking about in particular. The first: Suriname is a failed state and that has to do with the ethnic division. Secondly, give me an example of a multiethnic or multicultural society where the original population is still running and where there is a peaceful society; I do not know him. The third: somewhere deep in our genes is that we are not well able to connect with our unknown people. A minister who says that has a very gloomy human and social image. For saying that a multi-ethnic society cannot actually function and that in turn hangs on genetic issues makes working for a functioning, modern society in essence meaningless. After all, it is already genetically determined that this is not going to succeed, because people seem unable to connect with other people. It is clear that I and my party see that completely differently. People are also social beings. Meeting strangers is part of life. There would be few marriages in this country if it didn't start somewhere to meet strangers. My question is therefore: is what the Minister said, what he thinks? Is this how he looks at the world when you look at him deep in his heart? How can he reconcile this human image with the cabinet policy he carries out every day? I'm a little "maybe it was supposed to be prickly"?'. Look, we're all making exciting statements. And the pronunciation "Surinam is a failed state" is typically an exciting statement, because it is a poorly governed country, but perhaps not a failed state according to the rules. But is it also an exciting statement when you go so far as to say "genetically it can't be any different than that it won't be a success"? I would like to explain that. How does the Minister feel about that? Was this exciting and what is the basis of what the Minister really thinks? I also find it difficult, Madam President, to see what is really going on in the end, in the debate that we have to have. Because I just said: Suriname may not be a failed state by the rules, but the country is very badly run. We now act as if there is nothing wrong with Suriname, but we have to keep an eye on that. The president was convicted of cocaine trafficking in our country. In their own country there is still a trial against the man for the December murders. Corruption is rampant and it is just deeply sad how badly that country is run and how it sighs under maladministration. Nothing should cloud the view of that. And also multicultural society is not suddenly rose-scented and moonshine. My predecessor Jan Peter Balkenende already said in 2001: multicultural society is not something to pursue. Sure, people from all over the world are working and building our society in our country. And yes, there is a great variety of people in our country. At the same time, however, we can say in this country that we have values and norms created by this culture over the centuries, which mean that we have our own strong culture that we do not have to give up. So there is a big difference between a country where people from many cultures live together and a multicultural society where there is no longer a supporting culture. What I am so afraid of is precisely that the Minister's statements help us to go the other way and forget that we have a daily mission in a society that is not always working by itself. Diversity is not an end in itself. We need to keep an eye on that. It is true that in this country and in many other countries more and more people from different backgrounds live together. That's modern times. But the goal is to preserve a culture, a bearing set of values and standards that we can all commit to. In short, apart from the truth of the statements, I think it clouds the view of a discussion that we must have. We cannot deny that the multicultural society, that immigration, that all changes are accompanied by tensions. And if you read further in the transcript.... and I leave the middle part, because that was it................................................................................................................................................................................... They may have been exciting enough in themselves, but they were very true. The minister mentions the example of Benoordenhout in The Hague, a neighborhood he does know. It is true that this neighborhood looks very different than when you live in Amsterdam-West or in the Schilderswijk. That's different, and we have to call it fair and square. In short, only if we do so will we be able to move forward. I therefore urge the Minister to weigh his words more carefully in future and to choose more wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u178	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u179	Mr. Chairman. The views and reading of the minister are seen by many in this house as highly unusual, as shocking and strange. I was so surprised. In the run-up to this debate, I was once again destined for great incomprehension. Mr. Blok can understand as a racist, as a xenophobic, I absolutely don't want to succeed! What then becomes clear quickly is that some people do not want to make a clear assessment of the Minister's statements, but again demand the exclusive right of the multicultural bullshit. It's their little shop. They would have preferred to have invented the whole puppet stand of multicultural sweetness themselves. What's this fuss about, this lever to trouble? So the facts. Well, the Minister is orienting himself around the world in his reflections. He sees no flourishing original populations in Australia and the United States. Well, I say. It may be that the representatives of these groups, as far as they are still there, will be able to support the Minister on this point. In Suriname, the minister discovers a political system where parties are divided along ethnic lines. Gosh, I say. Who doesn't see that? Read the Parbode. You can buy it from the AKO every month. There's one scandal in there after another. Follow the parliamentary debates that you can also follow in the Netherlands; you can light up a lot of them and the conclusion lies ahead of you. Those ethnic lines are visible up to and including. If there is a rule of law here, the Minister wonders. The reaction on my part is: that is a question that many Surinamese do not dare to ask out loud and publicly. If there is a real democracy, the Minister asks. This question, too, is certainly worth considering when many people in that country are concerned about the administrative corruption and the influence of Colombian drug money. I don't know if the apology letter has already ended up in Suriname, but then they will sneak in a bit. Last week in Suriname a Colombian coke gang was exposed by the DEA and a special Surinamese search team. The DEA didn't want to cooperate with the regular police forces, because they're too corrupt. In response to these events, the Minister of Justice cut in half the Special Investigation Team and transferred staff. The further investigation is leading to major delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u180	Mr. Hiddema, before you continue, Mr. Kuzu has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u181	Can Mr Hiddema shed light on why Suriname would have been divided along ethnic lines? I wonder why. Can he let his light shine over that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u182	Discuss your own political instincts. How did you manage to mobilize your followers? I don't know anything about that. I see only what I see in the parliamentary debates. I don't mind at all, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u183	That's a very short light. But perhaps Mr Hiddema can draw attention to the historical aspect of how different ethnicities have ended up in that country. Perhaps Mr Hiddema could give us a hint or a preposition on where to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u184	Well, I'd like to, but it's out of this time frame. I can take that, can't I? Here my time. I keep getting the hell out of my ass that I don't hurry up, but just give me a minute, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u185	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u186	I have already mentioned what happened recently in Suriname. I go into the broad shared opinion in Suriname about that fiasco. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what happened there? At the mouth of the river or near the seaside, the Colombian mafia had managed to install a complete seaport, with installations, with cranes, the whole lot. The whole middle class of Suriname was involved. There was even a boat yard for submarines. When the raid came, there was a boat ready with coke. It's been impounded. And some arrests have been made. The rest of them are fugitives, because they're not gonna be behind the rags anymore. Why is that? The broad shared opinion in Suriname is: this is what Bouterse is behind. His economy is in a mess. He now needs Colombian drug money for his upcoming scheduled reelection. Did the Minister send the letter of apology to the person Bouterse? I can't imagine. Bouterse, murder suspect and convicted drug lord at the head of his democratic rule of law. Can you speak in your right mind of a failed state? I think that the founders of our minister at the time could meet a whole end, especially in the realization that half the population saw the mood and took the neighbourhood to the Netherlands. The minister continues his speech and his journey, and ends up in Hoetsiket Island. A footnote in history? Wouldn't you even want to pull out some genetic-biologically-expert material on that to explain what happened there? Hundreds of thousands killed by primitive racist violence. Is that coming out of the sky? No, they had a reason, and the minister doesn't know what, he can't reach it with his wits. And then the parts where Shiites and Sunnis stand each other to life. He doesn't understand where this homicidal lust comes from and explains it with the observation that people like to stay within their own familiar surroundings. One in the eye of simple psychology, in which there is a logic of madness. How many Dutch are not happy to return from a far away holiday to their own country? In Warsaw and Prague, the minister sees few colored people. Whatever you might notice on the Minister's sight, he doesn't say anything that he thinks is a good thing. So here too there is nothing "fay, minister," nothing of narrow-mindedness, grievance or creepy nationalistic thinking. Now I'm getting to a point of criticism. After all these far-travel impressions, the minister goes a little further and ends up in Belgium. He considers that country after the emergence of the right-wing parties, I quote: 'not more inalienable than it was before'. This is where the Minister shoots ironically off the bend. This is clearly a comical slip of the tongue. Even though many Flemings and many Waalen can hardly grasp the word "Belgium," it is fitting for the Minister to acknowledge that they are running a country together that puts the Netherlands to the brink of living. Only an excuse here is not enough; you owe more to the Belgians. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I can imagine the Minister feeling politically in a tight spot. All of his knees and sorry-jeremies may mean that the minister feels constrained in his current political housing. But there is solace: Forum for Democracy has received a lot of emails, apps and phone calls from FvD members in the last week who call on the group to support Blok. The supporters of the Forum support almost 100% of Minister Blok's criticism of the EU's naive multiculturalism and open border policy, and in particular believes that Blok should be able to speak freely and stop once and for all in order to jump through Pechtold, Klaver and Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u187	Are you going to finish up, Mr. Hiddema?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u188	He certainly shouldn't do that if he gets blamed for not having faith in the multicultural state, especially in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u190	... and that this does not aim to connect, because the transcript states that there are few examples of successful integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u192	But the Minister has hope! Well, that's a godsend for all of you, isn't it? I still owe you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u193	You really need to finish!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u194	That's what I'm gonna do. May I ask the messenger for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u195	What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u196	The Minister, a man of stature, of honor and virtue, with much administrative experience, would therefore be much better served by the Forum for Democracy, where it is appreciated if you keep your back straight and express your opinion. That is why we have already had a FvD member card made for Minister Blok, which I would now like to hand over to the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u198	Think of it as strength feed for real liberals, then the Minister can again move his back and out of his footwear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u199	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u200	I'll suspend the meeting for lunch and then we'll start with the swearing-in of a new colleague. This is followed by a brief arrangement of work and then the Minister will have the opportunity to reply.
