ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66 to ask the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations about the message that AIVD needs to screen local politicians in order to avoid infiltration. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For some time there have been concerns in society and in the media about undermining local government. For example, research has previously shown that in 25% of all municipalities aldermen, councilmen or mayors suspect or know that infiltration has taken place by criminals. D66 sees this as a very serious problem and calls for urgency now that the municipal elections are on the way, especially as researchers say that undermining will increase even further. From The Hague it seems as if we are watching powerlessly. The question arises: are political parties sufficiently screening their council members and candidate aldermen? Professor Kolthoff stated in Trouw van niet. Do political parties know what signals to look for and do they have the means to do so? The article on which this oral question was requested refers to the possibility of the AIVD screening of local politicians. That's what D66 considers an extreme possibility. There are other instruments that can be used preventively, before someone becomes a councilman or alderman. There is a heavy responsibility for selection committees and for the party board. But do they know enough what their options are? Minister Plasterk has therefore developed a tool for integrity testing, in order to provide concrete tools for selecting local representatives. Does this hand-out work to prevent undermining? Does it reflect the possibilities that party directors have, such as a test at the Bureau of Security, Integrity and Complaints of the police or, in an extreme case, the AIVD? Can the Minister update and draw attention to the issue of hand-out and thus provide a better response to the current problem of undermining?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an important issue, and it is very good that we see that this debate is now taking place much more intensively. So there's a lot of attention, more attention to the subject, and that's what's needed. Undermining is a serious problem and we have indeed heard the signals that it also affects local public administration. Several mayors have drawn attention to this, and others, by the way. The cabinet therefore takes this very seriously. Mrs Den Boer pointed out that the previous cabinet, Minister Plasterk, had my predecessor make a hand-out that political parties could use in their screening of their candidates. I think it's very good that there is. They include parties in what they can do themselves, what type of questions they can ask, what kind of questions they can pay attention to. That's where it all starts. But we have also said in this Chamber, I believe, in the budgetary treatment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we should ask the question whether that is sufficient. I promised the Chamber I'd come up with a letter; I'm really trying to do that in the next month. We actually want to look at the whole palette, so from the hand-out as it is and the way in which political parties are now screening and, of course, have already done so in the context of the municipal elections, for example, parties have already made a statement on behaviour mandatory; there are several ways in which parties are already dealing with it now, up to and including the most imaginable instrument of screening in exceptional cases. I also read the article Mrs Den Boer referred to. The suggestion was raised there that it is such a serious problem that you might even have to consider doing that AIVD screening all over the palette of council members or candidate council members. I wouldn't consider that a proportionate means. We all know that there are about 60,000 candidate council members, 9,000 council members later. So I do not think that this is the way we want to go, but rather offer as many handles as possible and consider instruments. I'll record all that in the letter I owe you. By the way, Mrs Kuik also has answers to questions on the same subject for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister for her reply. I'm glad to hear she shares these concerns. It's also good to hear that she wants to look at the hand-out. I have two brief supplementary questions. There seems to be also a legal problem. If after an election it turns out that a council member has an integrity problem and he or she doesn't want to leave voluntarily, what can a political party do? This would be a substantial restriction on the right to stand as a candidate enshrined in our Constitution. What is the Minister's response to this? D66 also considers it important to point out that integrity is important throughout the council period and not only when there are elections. If there is not constant attention to integrity, undermining can cause local authority to be disturbed. Several experts have already suggested that the mayor plays a very important role in this. However, it does not always have all the possibilities. Earlier it appeared that the minister was referring to a legislative amendment, so that mayors could gain more powers if the integrity of a municipality is at stake. What is the status of the legislative amendment? Can the Minister speak to the mayors to strengthen their role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. These are, of course, very good points that Mrs Den Boer is now putting forward. I am a little hesitant to go into it very deeply, because it would also pre-empt the letter I promised you. These are important points. The right to stand as a candidate is a great asset. I think we all do. Therefore, the action should be directed towards the front of the selection, because indeed, council members who have been elected once, who have been elected. We find that very valuable. So that's the reason to focus on the front. At the same time, of course, your integrity is due all the time, so not that you have integrity in the front and that it doesn't matter after that. I consider the principle of integrity to be equally important at any time, in the elections but also during the council period. As far as I'm concerned, the mayor's role is part of that letter. It is about whether we think that we need another instrument in cases of integrity violation or conflict of interest, the more serious cases, and whether that should lie with the mayor or whether the King's Commissioner can play a role in this and, ultimately perhaps, the Minister. I would also like to comment on this in the letter I have sent you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Den Boer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. I am very pleased to hear that she shares my concerns and also the concerns of society. I also think it is very nice that she wants to work actively on this. We are, of course, eagerly looking forward to the letter in which all these elements return, including awareness, the role of the mayors and, of course, the continuous follow-up of council members in the process and during their session. I am therefore very happy to look forward to the Minister's actions and I will continue to follow her on this dossier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
