ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the debate on the Turkish attack on Syria. We have come to the Government's response. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am aware that this is the third time today that the cabinet in this Chamber is talking about the Turkish military offensive in the Afrin region. The news about Afrin rightly gets a lot of attention, in the Netherlands and in international media. But at the same time, I want to make sure, from the beginning, that we're not just looking at this offensive. I would particularly like to look at everything in a context of a complicated conflict in Syria, as already mentioned by a number of members, in which Russia, Iran and the Shiite militias are fighting a 'briefing' war, in order to name it that way. The escalation of the last few weeks and this weekend does not, of course, help to maintain risks. While we are talking about the offensive in Afrin, the offensive in Idlib and East Ghoutadoor also goes, with dramatic consequences for the civilian population in all these areas. I would like to put it first and continue to stress that the Netherlands always states that the only solution to the conflict in Syria is a political solution. This is in accordance with the UN Security Council Resolution drawn up under the auspices of UN Envoy Staffan de Mistura. We will continue to work to ensure that this process has a chance of success. Since 20 January, we have been talking about the Turkish offensive in the Afrin region. As was previously shared with your Chamber, Turkey informed both the VNVR and NATO in writing on the first day, but we continue to raise the issue. There has been extensive talk, even in the first days of the Turkish offensive. The government's line so far has been clear and consistent. We're very concerned about the offensive. We call for great restraint, proportionality and action in accordance with international law. Turkish action must not hinder the fight against ISIS; it must not make it more difficult. Turkey should also refrain from language of war or any hint of further military operations in Northern Syria. The Netherlands explicitly calls for attention to be paid to the protection of the civilian population and to the protection of cultural heritage. This is not something new, but we will continue to convey that message. With regard to "information and proof of proof for Turkey'... Uh, Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	The minister's just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	I know that, Mr. Chairman. But I would like to go back to the first point she made, because I can imagine that she said everything she wanted to say about it. She made the point that the Netherlands wants a political solution. I'm sure there's no one against that. She calls it the UN process. There's no one against that either. But how does the Minister appreciate that this process is actually no longer alive and that other tables have been given a much more prominent place? What does that mean for the desire, commitment and commitment of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	It's nice to give the impression that I can take off a problem so briefly. However, it was a precursor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	I will certainly come back to it afterwards. This was just my so-called block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. I come to the point of the information that is needed in order to be able to say that Article 51 has been applicable in accordance with the Charter. The Netherlands has constantly asked for information. We're front-runners in this and we're clear on this. I do not think it can always be said that everyone is coming with us on this point. But it's being incorporated into all the forums. I call NATO Defence ministerial. The Secretary of Defense has repeated the call again today. I would also mention the United Nations, bilateral contacts and all multilateral fora, including NATO ministerial in Brussels earlier. We have also spoken with certain colleagues in the various Councils. It has also been addressed at ambassador level. There's some data. We'll keep the initiative. At the request of the Netherlands, Turkey presented an explanation to the North Atlantic Council on 6 February. There has also been some sharing of information at other times, but this is not yet considered sufficient by the Netherlands to serve as such information that it has been shown that Article 51 is actually right to be dealt with. We have also made an appeal in the margins of the anti-ISIS meeting, recently in Kuwait on 13 February. It was two-fold. Firstly, there was the allies' need for information to be able to actually appoint Article 51. Secondly, the fight against the Turkish offensive in Northern Syria must not complicate the anti-ISIS coalition and the fight against ISIS. It shouldn't be a distraction. The Dutch concerns have also been raised bilaterally in clear terms. On 31 January Turkey's temporary agent was received at the State Department to explain the Turkish offensive. The Turkish Foreign Affairs has also been asked by the Dutch embassy in Ankara to explain. So we are consistent and very clear in our expectations. Of course, there has been a clear bilateral critical position. We need more and better information for a solid foundation to actually see and demonstrate the claim to self-defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	There is no more concrete basis, the Minister also writes in the letter. It is at the expense of the fight against ISIS. The people fighting against ISIS are under attack. After a few weeks, is the Minister prepared to pronounce the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	It is correct that the justification is not yet available. The opinion of the cabinet so far has been that it has still proved difficult to obtain qualitative information, as stated by former Minister Zijlstra. As a third country, we are primarily dependent on this type of information before we proceed to a substantive appreciation. We don't just do that. We don't want to do this sloppy. This should not create a precedent for any other situation. It remains important that this be substantiated. I think it is very important for the Netherlands to continue its efforts in bilateral and multilateral terms. This has already been demonstrated by the various interventions. Now unilaterally as the Netherlands takes a position in anticipation of more and additional information, I do not think it is effective. I think it's been named, too. It is very important that we maintain pressure and that I return to the Chamber within a certain period of time to show what other contacts have been mobilized. Ideally, we do this with other countries. If it is an action by the Netherlands only within NATO or the EU, we may know the result sooner, but it is not effective. It may not bring about any change either. It is important that the voice of the Netherlands is heard. He'll be heard, too. As I have just said, the Minister of Defence has made another appeal in the NATO Council today. We are also going to intensify contacts with allies to see what other information is still available, what their attitude is and whether we can act collectively in this. Then it is better to proceed to a final set-up at that time. Of course, the absence of diplomatic presence at the highest level does not prevent us from making our voices heard. The Netherlands still has diplomatic relations with Turkey. We have a temporary agent in Ankara and in The Hague, so there are plenty of channels, both bilaterally and multilaterally. We're already ahead, but it's very important that we don't walk alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	The Minister says the evidence isn't there. She also says that Turkey has been called upon to provide evidence on several occasions. I can tell the Minister one thing: that evidence is not going to be provided, especially since the Minister and other NATO partners are looking at Turkey. Meanwhile, Turkey separates international law on its own and the Afrin has entered. Can the Minister imagine that this greatly feeds the cynicism and aggressive attitude of states and gives room to those states that ignore international law when it suits them? My question to the Minister is therefore: until when do you give Turkey time to prove that? How many more are to be killed? How many more refugees are there to join? And how many jihadists can Turkey recruit from this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	I think I would like to make an exception to the question of how many jihadists are still allowed to recruit Turkey on behalf of this minister. None natural by any country. We are all opposed to all forms of violent extremism in any form. That's one. Secondly, it is a question of political and diplomatic assessment. That is why the debate among Members of Parliament was so interesting. It is a question of feasibility and effectiveness. The vote in principle was heard a few weeks ago. My colleague, Minister Zijlstra, said that he regretted the situation. We are not talking about "proof" either, but about "substitution." This is extremely important in international law. We can make an assessment after that. I agree with you that we can make a very clear assessment at the moment that we have gone through all the forums, as the justification is not due to us in a very limited form or at all. Thus, as a country of international law, with the capital of the International Court of Justice, we have made an additional effort to obtain this support................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is important, also in the context of possible follow-up actions and in order to bring NATO members or countries within the EU. I also said at the beginning that it is important not to lose sight of the whole picture in Syria. As you rightly said, there are internally displaced persons and refugees. The situation in Syria is not improving at political level either. I shall come back to Mrs Ploumen's questions in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	Last question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	Finally. Surely the Minister does not take himself and government policy seriously when looking at the principles of the cabinet, namely that it should be proportionate, that it should not make the fight against ISIS any more difficult and that the civilian population and cultural heritage should be protected? None of that's going on. The Turks do not care at all about all that gremia and all kinds of words you use. What is needed is for the international community to condemn this. I regret that at the moment our cabinet, although it has a critical attitude, does not dare to take that step, does not show that courage, to take the lead internationally. I can tell you that if this continues, it will not only undermine our credibility, but also that of NATO and of the European Union...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	In fact, it gives a carte blanche to countries like Turkey to act as they do now: totally illegal and a new war feeding in that war-ridden country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	Madam President, I do not hear a question, so I will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr Voordewind has a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	There is a clear appeal to the Minister whether we see an end to the period we are giving the Turks to arrive at that burden of proof. A little evidence has been provided, but not enough. It didn't come close to Article 51. The concrete question to the cabinet is therefore still what the Minister can do with his colleagues to arrive at a joint deadline for Turkey to provide these proofs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you, that is a clear question. My own assessment is that within two to three weeks, if not earlier, I would like to return to this Chamber, in written or oral form, to give an appreciation of a number of additional steps taken by the Netherlands diplomatically, bilaterally and multilaterally. That seems to me to be sufficient time. At some point, a justification, not the burden of proof, is necessary. I naturally share the view that at some point we should make an assessment of what could be an effective follow-up. I do not, however, have any judgment as to what that step would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	It is good that the Minister now says that in two or three weeks we should have the story around, at least as far as the different fora are concerned. We hope this isn't too late for Afrin. At the same time, we see that the principle of proportionality is going to be very difficult. There are about 70 attacks a day on civilian targets. I ask the Minister if she can reflect on that proportionality. Can we not agree on this? Or can the Minister say that this is no longer proportionate as referred to in Article 51?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Proportionality has two layers. Proportionality is always important in international humanitarian law and in international war law. Article 51 refers in particular to the right to self-protection. It has to do with each other, but there are also separate channels. Proportionality and the role of protection of citizens is extremely important. That is something that the Security Council is always in favour of. This is a subject that can always be included, including in the context of the conflict in Syria. Yesterday, the Netherlands made a special appeal to the UN Security Council. It's a recurring theme. I would therefore specifically like to say that this is important as an appeal to all parties, directly and indirectly, that contribute to the conflict in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	Finally, Mr President. We can, of course, wait a long time for this, but does the Minister not already have an idea of what is happening at the moment? If thousands of people flee from Afrin, if the Kurds have to be mobilized from Rojava to Afrin because they have to step up the fight to defend themselves, is there not at all a picture of this proportionality right now? It is clear that we have concerns about this. However, the question is how are we currently assessing the proportionality of Turkey's actions? I mean, there's got to be some kind of judgment about that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	As I said earlier in terms of international law, international war law, proportionality and Article 51: in a few weeks' time, we will come back with a final assessment of all attempts made by the cabinet. You will recall how this may have affected the fight against ISIS. At the moment, our military assessment is that it has not been in the way of the fight against ISIS. Some Kurdish fighters have indeed moved away. They also speak of psychological effects. Indeed, it also creates tension and disagreement within the anti-ISIS coalition, which must be prevented. On the contrary, the Netherlands is the most critical and most prominent in the question of the burden of proof and the possible follow-up given to it. This is one answer. The second is that the UN currently has sporadic or almost no access to Afrin. The worrying thing is, of course, that, as you know, OCHA, the UN Coordination Office, is reporting a very low presence, I assume, in connection with the military conflicts, of humanitarian organisations. This is very worrying, because access, support and protection, as always provided by humanitarian workers, will not be sufficient. So I'm taking your concern with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	Maybe just about that point where the Minister says that in two or three weeks' time, or let's say in three weeks' time, she's gonna come up with a final verdict. That's the word she used. She referred to the discussion we had in the first term as MPs. Hence my question. Can this also mean that this is final judgment: no matter what others do, we decide to condemn Turkey's invasion of Afrin? Or is that an option the cabinet isn't considering? Perhaps the Minister could say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think that an open way to an appreciation of all possibilities is best, pending any possible justification we can obtain. With all possibilities, we will always have to weigh, of course, when looking at effectiveness and timing, which is the desired end effect. I have heard very well that there has been a debate in the Chamber on what is desirable, speaking purely for the Netherlands, for the Netherlands and the Netherlands, and what will have a possible change effect on Turkey. That will all be weighed in appreciation in due course, but I do not want to anticipate a moment that is yet to come. What I do commit or what I do confirm is that we will double our efforts and we will ask for support at all levels and channels and we will mainly appeal to allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	That attack on January 20th didn't fall out of the sky. In the weeks preceding it, Turkey has already made a broad assessment of its intentions and plans. If there were such a case of self-defense or self-defense, Turkey could simply have gone to the Security Council with that story and asked for permission to deal with the Kurds in Afrin for a moment. Has Turkey been asked by you, by NATO or by the UN, why it did not ask for such an authorisation from the Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	This level of consultation within NATO is confidential. The information on the steps taken, such as the burden of proof and the time when, even in the run-up to 20 January, we will obtain and take with us in a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	That's not exactly what I want to hear. Then I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to ask the Turkish Government itself this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'll come back to this in second term. A number of questions have been asked about the anti-ISIS coalition, on which I have already made an advance. A question has also been asked about arms supplies and an arms embargo towards Turkey. As this Chamber knows, the Netherlands is already very critical in any case, especially as regards weapons that could possibly be used in South-East Turkey. Rejections regarding supply commitments and licensing concerns, for example, ammunition, components for battle helicopters and components for guided missiles. We are still not in favour of a unilateral arms embargo. We stress that the case-by-case approach remains important. There is still delivery to the Turkish Navy, because we also see this as something in Dutch interest. We deal with arms embargoes in general in EU or UN context. This has not proved to be effective in any other way. However, we continue to press through the denials, the rejections put pressure on other EU Member States because of the mandatory consultation mechanisms. As we reject, they are also expected to consult us on the basis of the criteria we have applied. In the past, I believe that questions have also been asked about Germany and whether Germany was stricter than the Netherlands. That's not true. There was a temporary break in Germany due to the missionary status of the cabinet. In itself, Germany has not changed its own approach to arms supplies to Turkey and it is the same as the Netherlands. As Mrs Ploumen knows like no other, the humanitarian situation is poignant. We are monitoring the situation closely, including from the region, through our embassy in Lebanon but also elsewhere. We have daily contact with NGOs and through UN channels. A bright spot is not to mention it, but perhaps a candle: yesterday more than 7,000 people were reached in East Ghouta with a first convoy since November, but of course we are already in the middle of February. In Syria itself, 390,000 people are still under siege. Of course, we continue to call for a humanitarian ceasefire. As you know, there is a new initiative. Kuwait and Sweden are sponsoring a resolution in the UN Security Council which was also discussed yesterday. The Dutch statement in the Council is very important and clear about this. We continue to emphasise the situation in Syria everywhere and the importance of an overall de-escalation of violence and a ceasefire, of course, especially now that we also have a seat on the UN Security Council. We are trying in every way to ensure compliance with humanitarian war law. This is, of course, particularly about the protection of citizens. As I mentioned to Afrin, the UN has only sporadic access, and that remains, of course, a matter of concern, but also of political concern. We'll take this too. Questions have been asked by Mr Van der Staaij about Iran's role in Syria with possible consequences for the region. As this Chamber is well aware, Iran, alongside Russia, is one of the two pillars of the regime. Iranian militias, including Hezbollah, are fighting on the side of the regime. Iran also has a growing influence in the country. We therefore remain concerned about this influence, also in relation to possible regional consequences, looking at the wider region. I know this from my former role as a UN envoy between Israel and Lebanon. This is also very important for the security of Israel. The invasion of Israeli airspace by the Iranian drone on Saturday gives us additional cause for concern. The Netherlands is addressing Iran in bilateral contacts, and I will certainly do so again next week, when I leave for the region in my capacity as Foreign Minister. We call on all parties to de-escalate and, as I said, a clear statement was issued yesterday by the Netherlands in the UN Security Council. It remains a major concern, particularly because of the proliferation of weapons and the consolidation of non-state actors, particularly in Militia. This is also a matter of enormous attention and concern for the future option if the political process ever comes to fruition, the reconstruction of Syria and the region. These are extremely important elements and therefore major concerns. There was a specific point about the destruction of cultural heritage, I believe by Mr Voordewind. There have indeed been reports in the press and National Geographic about the partial destruction of the ancient temple of Ain Dara. We do not yet know exactly what has happened on the basis of other independent reports. I cannot have a debate on this yet, but we would like to ask for clarification, and this is also in the plans that we have. We'll keep doing this. There is, of course, also broad support for this, as we have seen before in other instances of the destruction of cultural heritage in the region. Unfortunately, this is a new way of fighting war and a very dangerous way, because it leads to loss of identity. I believe I have some questions... Excuse me, I'm just trying to get some order in the papers for me. About chemical weapons, some points of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	Because we do not quite know which blocks the Minister had intended to answer, I am now faced with the dilemma which I think Mrs Ploumen also stands for, namely whether Mrs Ploumen's original question, which I would have had a follow-up question on, is going to be dealt with now or should have been put now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	Does the Minister know what question is meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	I was particularly concerned about this, but I would like to leave it to Mrs Ploumen, because she was the first to come forward here because of the Minister's initial remark that the Netherlands remains fully and exclusively committed to a political solution through the UN and the efforts of De Mistura. I also wanted to add a qualification to that, but I do not want to get in the way of Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	I do not consider this to be an interruption, but this is a question that should have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	That's correct, thank you. I can answer that now. I don't think it's so much fun and alone. I think it is right that we have enormous concerns about the chances of success of the political process, not just because a number of other channels have been launched since the start of the Geneva process and have always shown the risk of a shift in political weight and negotiations from the outset. As you know, the UN, the Secretary-General and Envoy De Mistura, the Member States, including the Netherlands, the EU and most of the members of the UN, including Russia, have always stressed that the Geneva process is the leading process. All other processes are expected to support that. I think we would be naive not to recognise the huge risk of shift and weakening. We must, of course, remain very vigilant about this. I do not think it is appropriate to say now that we are therefore moving away from a UN process. Then we are playing into the hands of those who want to declare that UN process bankrupt by their own actions. That's not wise. It has been asked whether there can be moments of reflection on how to move forward. The EU context is a good framework for this. One of the questions is how we can support the process led by Staffan de Mistura even more and where the accents should lie. When the time comes to launch other initiatives, as the French have done before, although not well worked out, I think is very sensitive. That is why I would suggest that we agree with the SGVN that there will be no separate initiatives. The difficulties of the process are not so much in the process. The difficulties are, of course, always in a lack of political will and a de facto shift in the political framework within Syria. That is the dilemma that has kept the current process going for a very long time. We continue to provide political support. We also fund technical assistance. The new initiatives and the agreements that De Mistura recently concluded in Sochi are important. If the international community wants to come up with other ideas, we must ask ourselves whether it can achieve a different and better result or not. It's a very difficult area. I would like to focus this month on the de-escalation, on a ceasefire and on the humanitarian resolution of Kuwait and Syria, knowing that this is not enough. Humanitarian suffering will continue in the absence of a truly successful political process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	With the agreement of Mrs Ploumen, I would like to continue with this line. I don't think anyone's against what the Minister is saying right now, but I think we should be honest in this Chamber, too. Not only about the isolated position we take when we would go much further than any other country when we need those other countries within NATO to force the Turks to do something, but also when it comes to pretending that the process in the UN and around De Mistura still has a lot to do. I think everyone in cheers will burst out if De Mistura can get access to one humanitarian convoy. That's where we're at. The actual trial will not take place in New York or Geneva. Both sides don't even shake hands there anymore. The real process takes place in Astana, in Tehran and especially in Moscow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	Then there's the next question. We can continue to support and strengthen De Mistura or bring more money to him, but shouldn't we be willing to cooperate with those parties because they're breaking up with him right now? Otherwise, I'm afraid we don't even have a role to play as a medic on that battlefield, which is determined by others...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	I can't say I disagree with the assessment. I do not know, however, whether the solution of a country's isolation, if I understand Mr Ten Broeke correctly, will prove effective. I believe that, precisely in the year that we are on the UN Security Council and we are working multilaterally, we should continue to focus on the voice, support and also support for proper UN processes. Improvements and other ideas are always very good and I like to hear concrete proposals, but at the moment everyone is completely stuck. The deterioration of bilateral relations between Russia and America has only further played into the hands of the warring parties. The region's stuck like hell. I fully agree with you that this process does not seem to be able to achieve any tangible results, at least for us. Is there a better alternative? Can we create that? This requires more reflection than today's debate on Afrin allows. The wider context of Syria needs to be involved. I share your appreciation, but it is very important that, before we cancel anything, we do come up with an assessment of what is possible. It is not clear to me whether you mean that we are going to raise this issue from the Netherlands within the UN. There are, of course, a lot of discussions about Syria. I would almost say: no one would have preferred to see that we could have taken a different path years ago. So far we have not been there, for various reasons we all know: geopolitical, cynicism, lack of political will and courage. I agree with you that this should be done and I would like to hear what we might be able to do at EU level or as a member of the Security Council. But there aren't any yet, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	Unfortunately, this debate is ideally suited to make that assessment. At the moment, this debate bears only traces of: can we condemn Turkey for the last time, if necessary alone and if necessary at the expense of our own position and of strengthening our self-image? That is what we are doing at the moment, and I dare to say here that, unfortunately, we also need the Turks in this humanitarian crisis. It is the Turks who receive refugees to a large extent, even on the north side of Syria. However much we have reservations about everything the Turks are doing at the moment: we should preferably raise these objections as widely as possible and therefore I do not think that an all entrance is wise. We must continue to support the UN process, even if it is leading to a wretched existence, to our great annoyance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	We cannot do this without Turkey, and I wish that our government had the willingness, despite the fact that that is difficult in this debate, to simply acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	I don't think it's unrecognized or underrecognized or not exposed. The conversation has taken a different turn. Of course, as in all conflicts, you will have to get all the warring parties at the table, those with influence, those with presence, for indeed: you make peace with your enemies and not with your friends, because with them you are normally the same. That is why, I think, it is very good to continue to focus on the moments when the Netherlands might be able to push a little more or come up with suggestions. It is of course true that our bilateral relations, particularly with Turkey, do not directly make us the most appropriate party to this, but I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	The Minister is, of course, right: there are no simple solutions. I think we all agree on that. I actually want to take the opposite position as Mr Ten Broeke did. I would like to ask the Minister whether she wishes to answer the next question or reflection. Look, no matter how you turn it, we're out of the loop in those negotiations in Syria. There is nothing the Minister can do about that, none of us can; it is a fact. But I see that, by being so slow in condemning that operation Olive branch, we are also putting ourselves out there, just as we would have a position as a NATO Member State, as Turkey, and as a member of the UN Security Council, to lead the way. My point to the Minister is: to lead the way, someone has to start walking, otherwise nothing will happen. Wouldn't this be the time to show ourselves at least in relation to the problem in Afrin a little more as an active player and now come up with a condemnation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	I appreciate the nuance applied by Mrs Ploumen. I do think it would be much easier in social and humanitarian matters without much damage. This is a very geopolitical assessment, and I think, quite frankly, that I would like to return to my earlier position that in a few weeks' time we will see if the justification has yet to be provided. We're mobilizing actively. We are ahead of that, so I take your point entirely: actively mobilising, being clear about that. It does not escape the attention of the Dutch public, nor does it escape the Turkish Government's commitment to this, because it also comes back to the debate, letters have been written about it and we are talking about it again today. But I think we won't be able to make the broad assessment until a few weeks from now. If this is still not the case, then it is much more useful to play an even more active role as a precursor. Before then, I will stick to my position as it has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	I suggest you move on. Oh, Mr Van Ojik; your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yes, Mr. Chairman. However, a little further away from the issue of the condemnation of the Turkish invasion but more the broader issue. Everyone understands how complicated it is. Everyone also understands that at least the EU's position has not been strengthened. I said myself in my first term: that is precisely what forces you to look with extra focus at the few instruments you have left. My question to the Minister: would it not be conceivable and desirable to look again at where you can use your political, financial and economic leverage at EU level, because it is not a question of a Dutch alley entrance? The last EU strategy for Syria dates back about a year ago. So much has happened again. I myself think that would be a good idea, but I wonder what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	I thank Mr Van Ojik for this suggestion. I think it's very good. It is at all that all so-called strategies in complex war situations must of course be reviewed very regularly, because you are planning for a truth that will never become the truth. So I think it is a very good system at all. It keeps us honest, too. Then I shall return to the points made by Mrs Ploumen: where can we go faster? And we need to do a three-sixty, as it's called. So I agree and I can commit to that. We will do that now. Maybe it's useful, I have to be careful that I don't make promises that are a little more difficult to live up to in that same appreciation in a few weeks' time a kind of connection can be made to our estimate of how to proceed with the wider Syria story. Then, indeed, we are not only looking at Afrin in isolation, because that is, of course, the starting point, but there is a broader reflection on what the options are, but also, of course, above all, on the limitations of all bilateral options.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yeah, I'd love to. Mr Voordewind made a comment on what the recent developments also mean in the relationship between the United States and Turkey. Of course, it's been an uncomfortable relationship for a while. We also know that the United States has said that if Turkey attacks Manbee, we will respond aggressively. But at the moment we do not have any clues, I mean by 'we' now only the Netherlands, because Turkey has started to act more militarily in the east. Of course, there are more often tensions between Turkey and the US. In this case, I do not want to diminish the tensions between the US and Turkey, but it is of course true that if they need us, the US will find us. I think we have any concerns about escalation risks, because in war language there is always a risk of unwanted escalation and misunderstandings. Misunderstandings can again lead to a worsening of the conflict. That's what worries us. Of course, it is mainly up to both parties to manage this now. We're following that acutely. As I said before, tensions within the anti-ISIS coalition are not desirable and not effective in any way and will actually only be playing into the hands of a number of other players. So we take it as a matter of concern. Madam President, I think I am almost going to make a series of comments. The chemical weapons and the poison gas attack. I would like to point out in advance that this Chamber knows that like no other body, the Netherlands is steadfastly calling for attention in all fora to be paid to the risk but also to the use of chemical weapons in Syria, and of course also to be condemned. It is happening in the OPCW, the UNGA, the Human Rights Council and, of course, now the Security Council, individually and in the UN context. We support OPCW's fact-finding mission, as well as the conclusions of the Joint Investigative Mechanism report, JIM. The starting point here is, of course, impunity and the fight against impunity, so that potential offenders, as well as offenders, will not go unpunished. We support the Commission of Inquiry. So we also support the investigation mechanism of the UNVN. We call for a referral of the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. We also support the recently launched French initiative for a partnership against impunity in the use of chemical weapons. In particular, this is because all appropriate fora, such as the VNVR and the OPCW Board, are blocked by vetoes from the Russian Federation and/or other parties. The French initiative is therefore extremely important. Of course, we have also taken note of reports on the use of chemical weapons in Idlib and East Ghouta, most recently. I also refer to the letter of inquiry that you received on this subject. The US tabled a resolution on this subject a few hours ago. We'll study it and see if we can go along with it nicely. Of course, the issue of concern remains the veto. The French initiative takes an important form, because it is outside other channels and has frontrunners. Also a number of countries you would not necessarily expect: Senegal, Côte d'Ivoire, Peru, USA, UK. That's not a regular club. What is very important, also from the political signal that this has, is that concerns about and condemnation of the use of poisonous gases or chemical weapons is not a point of the West. It is a general standard, everyone should respect it and impunity must be avoided. Madam President. I had some cubes, but I didn't exactly name them. These were: Afrin, the wider situation of Syria and humanitarian, the use of chemical weapons or poison gas, the French initiative, the arms embargo and its usefulness and lack of effectiveness. But we still have a few points. Mr Van Roon spoke about Turkey's transactional approach. That is indeed an interesting use. Unfortunately, many issues and themes are international policy. International cooperation and diplomacy are either based on shared interests or partial interests. We also have them with Turkey. Turkey is currently an uncomfortable ally for many, including the Netherlands. We remain critical of the human rights situation. So we have also kept a critical eye on the pre-accession support. We are very critical of the development of the rule of law or the standstill of the rule of law. We are, of course, very clear in this, but we must also recognise that Turkey is an ally in the fight against ISIS. They are also an ally in solving the problem of foreign terrorist fighters. And they play a role in the stabilisation of Afghanistan. So it is indeed transactional from both sides. This is a point of attention, but it is not the only country. As regards the appreciation of Mrs Ploumen's question on the absence of the chief poste in Ankara. I may have mentioned earlier that we ideally have a full occupation, both here and there. It is different now and that message has been clearly expressed by my colleague, former Minister Zijlstra. Having no ambassador is a rather high diplomatic means of expressing that you clearly do not agree and that expectations are different. But we do have all the channels to transfer contacts and there are a lot of routes that do. We hope, of course, that dialogue can be resumed at some point, but the message of the cabinet was clear: symmetry in everything that is happening in terms of the possible resumption at the highest level. There are, of course, still talks and dialogues, as I mentioned, in NATO, in the margins of the UN, OSCE and so on, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	I would like to return to the French proposal for a moment. The French proposal, which I believe Mr Sjoerdsma referred to, is indeed the recent proposal to try to put a little more pressure on something that is very difficult at the moment with a number of like-minded countries. Mrs Kaag knows that like no other. I was talking about the original French proposal, presented by Laurent Fabius in 2013, about the responsibility to abstain, the possibility of voluntarily refraining from vetoing the mass atrocities. In the case of chemical weapons, we know, 98% of all countries in the world have signed it and ratified it, so it could. The Russians are gonna stop that. I can't even do that. So we cannot mobilize the shame, as it is so beautifully called. Nor do we have any significant verification mechanism in Syria, also thanks to the Russians. What is possible is that we should use our Security Council position to at least allow the code of conduct proposed by the French at the time to be automatic in the use of chemical weapons, because it deprives those who are considering vetoing the possibility of not having a vote. And if they do, they have to explain. It's a somewhat long explanation, but it's a very difficult and complex story. I think Mrs Kaag knows exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	And since I know exactly what Mr Ten Broeke means, I would also like to reflect on an answer. I will come back to it in the second term, if necessary. The problem is, of course, that the French did not really come back to it. There has indeed been a lot of groundwell on the initiative. It is also symptomatic of the critical view many have on the functioning and lack of functioning of the UN Security Council. It often comes back to the use of a veto in situations where people really don't want to see it anymore. So it is an extremely important initiative. Whether we are going to use it for a statement on the use of chemical weapons; I would say, yes, try. But it also needs to be extended. I would like to come back to this and see what is feasible and desirable. If you look at accountability, it is in line with accountability as one of the three themes that the Netherlands has taken to the Security Council as a non-permanent member of the VNVR. But, frankly, I have to come back to this briefly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	You're actually through your interruptions. But you still have a second term. Then you can still thank the Minister. For nice things, I always have room. Mrs. Karabulut, you didn't answer another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	Yes. The Minister's international advisor states that the mandate to bomb in Syria is very thin. He has serious doubts about that. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	Two things. Professor Nollkaemper has, of course, spoken in his capacity as an eminent professor of international law, but not as the external international law adviser. I am also Minister for Foreign Trade and OS and I am speaking here as Foreign Minister. So I'm putting on the State Department hat now. He doesn't speak in his capacity as a consultant. I also said "eminent professor." However, I do not know whether it is appropriate to have the debate now on what capacity he spoke in. What is more important is that we often tell the Chamber that we are monitoring the situation and the international legal basis for intervention in Syria and Iraq. We'll keep doing that. If the cabinet estimates that there are any changes, they will also be reported directly to the Chamber in accordance with the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr Van Helvert. No, Mrs. Karabulut, you have a second term. No, I'm sorry. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I would like another response from the Minister to the links between Turkey and jihadists. In general consultation, the Minister said at the time that if he found out that we supported armed groups with Dutch money or European money in which jihadists are active, and that might well be the case at the moment, he would stop it right away. Is there anything to report on the state of play at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	As soon as there are indications that Dutch money would be used and thus abused for this type of event, immediate action will be taken. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you for that. I have another question about the burden of proof. At first, Turkey lays down the burden of proof to show that they are not doing anything wrong, whereas we prefer to see it reversed. Turkey is doing something and so they must provide proof that it is necessary. Do I understand correctly from the answer so far that the cabinet is now also aiming to increase pressure on Turkey because the burden of proof lies with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	Indeed, the country relying on Article 51 is also considered to provide the basis for the reference to Article 51. That's why we're constantly in contact with allies to see if we can get even better support. If not, then there is another moment of reflection, as we have discussed before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you. Does that moment of reflection, as the Minister calls it, go in the direction we think, namely that at some point with allies you are deciding whether or not to condemn something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	I don't know how you think you're doing. I assume that you point to an appreciation and a choice, for example a bilateral step or a call from the Netherlands. Like I said, I'll come back to this in a few weeks. On the basis of support, the quality of that support, our own assessment and, above all, the intensive contacts with allies EU and NATO, we will look into how to proceed. Ultimately, the commitment is always and preferably multilateral because of its impact and impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	No, no, I wasn't talking to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes, this is my fourth and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	No, we agreed on three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	Oh, three, I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	I meant Mr De Roon's last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	The Minister has promised the Chamber a letter reflecting what Turkey has put forward and will submit in order to justify the attack in Afrin plus an appreciation by the government of it. My question is: will the Minister send that letter to the Chamber well before the EU-Turkey Summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	I'll be back on the dates in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	That's good. Mr. Voordewind, you too are through all the interruptions. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	I've committed one interruption to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	I really checked. You still have a second term. I'll see if there's any more questions. Has there been a question left, Mr Voordewind? Well, of course, you can ask about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I thought it was a farmland. I asked another question about Hayat Tahrir al-Sham. That would be the Al-Qaeda organisation that is now working with Turkey to attack Afrin. The reports are getting more serious, including in the international press. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	I don't have any independent information on Hayat Tahrir al-Sham. I do have my own review of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham. The question is indeed whether cooperation is taking place. I will come back to that in the second term so that I can check with the officials if any new information has been provided. If that is the case, then of course that is a major concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	Okay. I'll take a look around. All questions have been answered. I thank the Minister. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mr. Chairman. Turkey is essentially out of control for the Western world. They do exactly what they want, they don't care about anything. This possibility is, of course, created by the fact that it is always being papped and kept wet. I do not know if this is good Dutch, but you know what I mean: there are no clear limits for Turkey. That is exactly what I am trying to do with this transactional approach. Just put the whole of Turkey away from the West; they don't have any real friends, so they can't cry or find support. Put them away, clear the boundaries, take them and let them know that we're not served by all these tricks and we have to do things differently. If the government does not want to do so, then that is a pity, and then we will see that Turkey continues on its path, because that head of Erdogan is so hard. We know that by now. I think I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	That's the way it's gonna be. Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then I'll go to Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey launched the attack on the predominantly Kurdish Afrin in northern Syria on 20 January;]] [[noting that the Turkish claim of self-defense as justification for this intervention was not substantiated;]] [[Considering that Turkish military action has already resulted in more than 100 civilian casualties and thousands of refugees in an area where it was relatively quiet;]] [[Considering that there are many indications that the Turkish army in northern Syria is cooperating with jihadist organisations;]] [[whereas the Kurds in Syria are the main allies to the West in the fight against Islamic State (IS) and there are reports that Kurdish fighters are leaving the front against IS because of the Turkish invasion;]] [[Considers that the Syrian people do not need another battle scene in the already very complicated war in which many other countries have directly or indirectly mixed up militaryly;]] [[calls on the Government to condemn Turkish military action in northern Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	Anyone who is serious about the value of democracy, freedom and international law should now support this motion, precisely in order to move forward. At the moment, the Minister says: we're going to wait three weeks. I hold my heart and the people in Afrin can't hold on for another three weeks. Mr President, for Syria as a whole. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that all kinds of countries have mixed in with military means in the civil war in Syria, which has aggravated the bloodshed, prolonged suffering and further out of the picture a political solution;]] [[Notes that recent calls for a ceasefire from the UN have been repeatedly made for humanitarian reasons;]] [[calls on the Government, inter alia, in the UN Security Council, to call on all warring parties in Syria to cease fire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Turkish army invaded northern Syria;]] [[noting that military equipment has been delivered to Turkey from the Netherlands in recent months;]] [[calls on the Government to stop arms exports to Turkey and to investigate whether military equipment supplied by the Netherlands is being deployed by Turkey in Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. I think that the Chamber, although it did not always seem to be united, is united in one respect, namely in the search for means, ways of ensuring that what Turkey does remains within the limits of international law. The House is also unanimous in the search for this, and I would like to say this, because that has been a little under-exposed in this debate to ways of ensuring that the immense suffering in Syria, partly due to the use of chemical weapons, is stopped. The Chamber seems to be falling apart a bit in two camps. I'm waiting for Mrs Karabulut, who's now standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	Do not repeat the debate. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	I agree with the latter on Syria as a whole and all Syrians. Can I count on D66's support for the motion calling for a ceasefire for humanitarian reasons? That would really do Syria a good thing, and that is a wish from the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	I think it's a wish of everyone that in Syria the weapons remain silent. I think everyone's wish is for the use of chemical weapons to stop. I think it is a wish of everyone that international law and human rights in Syria are finally respected. In that respect, therefore, a ceasefire can be very useful. I would like to point out one point. Where there can be no ceasefire, of course, is in the fight against IS. There is no way to stop it. Often you read and often you hear a triumphant tone: this organization would have been bombed away. But it's not that far. I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut the counter question: do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	No, no, no, that debate has been. It is now about Mrs Karabulut's motion and about whether you are prepared to support it. Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	I really want to have another debate on Syria tomorrow or tonight, but my question is really: do you support our motion which, following the UN, calls for a ceasefire for humanitarian reasons? And of course, of course, IS must disappear. Everyone thinks so. But this is really the question and I would like to hear a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	I think I have just said that quite clearly, I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut. If she can't hear the answer in there, I don't know how to make that clearer. Mr. Chairman. However, I think the next point is important. Sometimes a bit was pretended by the parties as if we could stop condemning violence and as if we could restore human rights in Syria by condemning it, but of course that is not true. It is about effective pressure on Turkey, effective pressure on militias and effective pressure on Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	No, no, Mrs. Karabulut. You're not getting the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	We must work together to achieve this effectiveness. That is also why my party is under the motion that Mr Van Helvert will table so immediately to ask the Minister to take joint action at NATO and at EU level, because only then will Turkey listen to us. I'm absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr President, thank you for your patience and for your leadership during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. I don't hear that much either. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen. She speaks for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister. I would like to draw attention once again to the humanitarian situation in and around Afrin. Members of the family of the people who live there in the Netherlands are very concerned. I hope, I expect, and I assume, that the Dutch cabinet will continue to pay attention to this. My second point is that there should be no room for cynicism and indulgence in diplomacy either. That is why, together with Ojik's colleague, I will table a motion asking the Netherlands to have an active lead role within the EU and NATO in the search for political solutions to the situation in Syria. My third point is a question. Yesterday, Turkey promised to come forward with what they consider to be the basis of that operation Olive branch. If that is the case, why do we need two or three weeks before the Dutch Government can come up with an appreciation? I think it's okay if the Minister says something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now turn to Mr Ten Broeke. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that the key question of this debate was: do we strengthen the self-image that we have, even if that is at the expense of our own position within NATO? The Minister was very clear about that. She says: I choose effectiveness and it is not effective at the moment if you send me there with a unilateral condemnation, because we are already on our own. We were alone in Rome and Kuwait two days ago. We were alone in the NATO Defence Ministerial, in front of the Turks, and we were the only ones claiming them. We were only standing when the Turks gave an explanation at Dutch request on 6 February. We were alone in the UN Security Council on 23 January. We can only stand, but that is not the intention, because we want the Turks to change their behavior eventually. I therefore believe that the motion tabled by Mr Van Helvert, who sees that there is a call for proof, or at least the justification, to be finally given, is sensible. We have heard that the Minister is also prepared to inform us of this within three weeks. I think that is wiser than putting very big words into this and perhaps making part of this Chamber implicit and even explicit co-responsibility for what is happening in Syria, if they do not support the other. That's what happened. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to respond to the proposal I made in 2015 in an article in the Clingendael Spectator, which I will give you to give a pragmatic interpretation of that French proposal, because it can provide a basis for the mechanism that is still missing. I look forward to a new debate with the Minister on what we can do in Syria to improve humanitarian supplies, solely through the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. I have tried, on behalf of my group, in the first term, to draw attention to the 'wider relationship' within which the debate on the Turkish invasion of Afrin must be conducted in my view. The Minister said, and I welcome that commitment: in the letter that comes in two or three weeks' time, I will reflect on that broader framework and pay attention to it. In order to give this reflection a little bit of direction, I would also like to present on behalf of my colleague Mr Ploumen, who has already announced the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the violence of war in Syria is still not ending;]] [[whereas the peace talks for Syria are at an impasse;]] [[Whereas a necessary political transition in Syria calls first of all for a clear strategy that protects citizens and puts an end to violence;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to work at EU level and in the UN Security Council for a renewed effort towards a cease-fire, access to humanitarian aid and restoration of basic human rights;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her accurate answers. I believe that we can conclude that the Chamber wishes to see Turkey present the evidence as soon as possible. In fact, the Chamber itself says that Turkey's invasion in Afrin alone should be condemned in terms of proportionality. Mr. Chairman. It is now a question of what message the Chamber sends to the cabinet for the discussions within NATO and within the EU. The coalition has said about this: try to find as much support as possible within NATO to bring Turkey with the burden of proof. The Minister has now also indicated that she will try to do so within three weeks. And if she doesn't, she'll come back to the Chamber so she can see what's going on. I really hope that we can reach a verdict towards Turkey, preferably in common. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion on the performance of ISIS in recent years, as we have all been able to observe. I do not think there will be much discussion about this in the Chamber. I'll give the Cabinet the following order for his intervention in the Security Council. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the US House of Representatives have classified the atrocities committed by ISIS against Jezidis, Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities as crimes against humanity and genocide;]] [[Considers that ISIS fighters should be prosecuted and tried for genocide in Syria and Iraq;]] [[calls on the Government of the Security Council to provide support for the recognition of genocide by ISIS fighters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate was about conviction or not. Especially for an outsider, it may seem as if condemnation is an end in itself, but it is of course a means of getting a lot closer to what we want, namely that violence stops there. The discussion is then mainly..... and I actually liked that discussion.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How do we put the cabinet in its power the most? I have come to the conclusion that, in order to increase the pressure on Turkey as much as possible, if the Netherlands does not have to do so alone. And luckily, I'm not alone in that. It is a means and not an end in itself. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 20 January last, with the help of Free Syrian Army (FSA) units, Turkey started military operation Olijdtak against the Syrian-Kurdish enclave Afrin;]] [[Whereas, despite requests to this effect, Turkey has not so far provided any justification justifying the use of self-defense;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself within NATO and the EU to a joint condemnation of the Turkish attack on Afrin as long as Turkey does not provide justification for recourse to Article 51 of the UN Charter (self-defense),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u106	I would like to inform the Minister that the word 'legitimate grounds' is, of course, about justifications which we consider adequate. That is different from the grounds that Turkey may consider adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Following on from the last speaker, I wonder when a justification for the Netherlands will be sufficient. I would like to ask the acting Minister for Foreign Affairs if she wishes to comment on that. We are also satisfied with the answers given by the Minister. I also mentioned in my contribution the impact on the Netherlands and the way in which groups of people deal with it. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that German authorities in Cologne and Leverkusen have banned demonstrations and flags of the terrorist organisation PKK;]] [[Considering that the PKK, like Daesh, is an internationally recognised terrorist organisation by the UN and by the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit, in consultation with the local authority, demonstrations showing flags and symbols of organisations appearing on the terrorist lists of the Netherlands, the European Union and the United Nations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-195]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to return briefly to a few questions. The first one was Mr. De Roon's. I was told that the EU-Turkey Summit was indeed on 26 March. You will receive my letter well before the summit. Mr De Roon also asked whether Turkey should have asked for a mandate for the offensive in Afrin. Invoking Article 51 does not require an ex ante authorisation. Turkey then immediately informed the VNV and NATO. So a notification has been given. Furthermore, I do not want to repeat the debate on the justification. Mr De Roon also asked whether Turkey supports terrorist organisations, such as Al-Qaeda. Mr Voordewind also suggested a link with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham. I just want to confirm that we do not have any independent information. We do not have a complete view of the facts. So I can't judge it now. Apart from information from the media and through other channels, we have no independent source at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u111	Authorisation ex ante is not necessary in the case of an appeal to Article 51. It's a well-known fact. My question was whether you are prepared to ask Turkey why they did not ask for a mandate from the Security Council. They were preparing that attack weeks before. So they knew what they were up to. In those weeks, they could have turned to the Security Council with the story: this is what is happening, so we need to intervene in Afrin and so please give us that authorisation. Why don't you ask the Turkish government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u112	Well, it's possible. This can also be done in the case of a number of other countries which rely on Article 51; it can be done. I think the broader consideration is very important. In our letter, we can return to a wide range, to our assessment, to the questions we have asked, to the information that has been or has not been obtained and to our estimation of the quality and factuality of the possible justification that may have been obtained. I come to Mrs Ploumen, who has asked for a careful timetable. Minister Bijleveld raised the issue again today. It has, of course, once again expressed its concern on behalf of the cabinet about the Afrinoffensive and asked Turkey to support the appeal to self-defense. We are still looking, as I have shown in this debate, for consultation and joint action, preferably with as many allies and partners as possible. That is why I referred to a period of a few weeks. That does not mean that it may not be possible to do so sooner if our assessment is that there is simply nothing left to get and to obtain. So there is, of course, that flexibility. As you and I know each other, that also goes with our common sense shared category. But I don't want to rule out anything, and I don't want to commit to an artificial date, so a door could be closed while we could have gotten some better information. Then we may be able to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u113	Yeah, yeah. The motion in part No. 189?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u114	Oh, excuse me, sorry, I didn't say anything because I forgot whether you or I were reading them. On the motion in part No. 189 of member Karabulut is the opinion of the cabinet: dissuade. On the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). The text says "all countries." It cannot be the intention, but I want to make it clear that this cannot in any way mean the Netherlands. Secondly, there should be no implicit reference to any ceasefire that would involve the ISIS coalition. We don't want to burn a peat fire. So we do not want to hinder or hinder the anti-ISIS coalition. The Swedish-Kuweitse resolution in the Security Council, to which I referred a few times earlier, discusses a one-month ceasefire. The resolution also excludes the fight against ISIS from the ceasefire. I wanted to make that clear in this text. In this way, the opinion on the cabinet could be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u115	I fully support the UN's call, which is indeed doing so for humanitarian reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u116	That's right. However, you will see in the UN resolution that the fight against ISIS is still being qualified. That is probably what the Security Council will come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u117	Everyone wants to beat ISIS. That is not what I want to do, but it is about all kinds of parties that are fighting with each other and in Syria. This complicates the humanitarian situation and the delivery of aid. That's what I'm talking about at the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u118	I understand your point, but I made a suggestion before concluding that it is up to the Chamber to decide that I would like to see this qualification. If that qualification isn't there, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it is not sharp enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u119	Then the question is whether you are prepared to amend your motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'll take that back and I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u121	This can be done until Tuesday before the vote. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u122	As regards the motion in part No. 191: We do not want a unilateral arms embargo. We believe, as I explained earlier, that this is not effective. Of course, we are still looking for the application of a restrictive case-by-case delivery and permission. Research into weapons delivered in the past is practically not feasible either, because we do not have an inspection authority with regard to the Turkish armed forces and what happens to them. So we are sticking to a very restrictive weapon delivery system, including rejections as I mentioned them earlier. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u123	However, I would like to add my voice to the criteria applied in Europe and also in the Netherlands. In Yemen there is a similar problem and there has been a request to investigate whether Dutch weapons are being used. This is just a new and growing conflict. It is about the use of weapons in Syria that are affecting the civilian population. I know it is difficult, but I would like to ask the Minister whether she can look at this, examine the possibilities and make an attempt to map it. It seems to me to be quite relevant. The Germans have shown that German weapons have indeed been deployed. That's suspended. I would like to know whether this also applies at the moment to Dutch arms parts supplied to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u124	As I have already mentioned, we do not have the power to conduct retrospective investigations. Secondly, we already have a very restrictive control policy on arms delivered, including to Turkey, but also to the United Arab Emirates, the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, etc., etc., etc. We apply very strictly the EU criteria and the Wassenaar Arrangement, as it is called. On top of that, as I mentioned earlier, Germany has not suspended its weapons. This had more to do with the outgoing status of the cabinet in Germany. In the meantime, the ordinary process in Germany has started again. We are in close consultation with everyone who joins the EU and the Wassenaar Arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u126	The motion in part No. 192 members of Van Ojik and Ploumen are very sympathetic. Of course, we say that the verdict is up to the Chamber, of course, again, provided that the cease-fire qualification does not apply to the fight against ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yeah, I can confirm that. That does not include the fight against ISIS. If that requires an amendment to the text of the motion, we can see how that is done. There are examples of this. The Minister just pointed that out. We can then conform to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u128	I'd love to. If that is the case, we find the motion sympathetic, as I said, and it is up to the Chamber to decide. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 193 of Mr Voordewind. For my opinion, it is true that the Netherlands has rightly found that ISIS is most likely to have committed genocide. We are at the forefront of this position in the Council of Europe. As Mr Voordewind knows, only the US and Canada have so far recognised genocide by IS. In order to obtain recognition, the government needs either a determination by the Security Council or a ruling by an international court or criminal court. We believe that we can stand up for this position, just now that we are on the UN Security Council. As Mr Voordewind probably knows as no other, a resolution was adopted in September last year stating that crimes committed by ISIS could amount to genocide. Of course, that wording is very important. We have also tabled and supported this resolution. On the basis of the motion before us, we can make an effort to tighten up this Security Council resolution and then we could also arrive at a determination that is important to the cabinet. If I may interpret the motion in this way, i.e. step by step and in the sense that it is an effort to reach a decision by the UN Security Council, then I would like to leave it to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u129	It is a task for the cabinet to adopt a resolution and to reach that conclusion jointly in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yeah, clear. Thank you. Then I come to the motion on part No. 194 tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind. If in the operative part the word "as long" could be replaced by the word "as" it would make the reading more stepwise and it would also be more about the commitment that we have now discussed, namely consultation with others, with allies, the EU and NATO, with a return to the Chamber within a few weeks or earlier to see if it has led to results. The word 'if' seems to me better in a conditional sense and in an escalating sense with regard to diplomatic action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u131	I understand, and I understand that from a diplomatic point of view, words and the way in which they are written are very important. I am concerned that this burden of proof actually ends up with the Turks and not with us. With regard to 'as long' you might actually say: at the moment there are no grounds for evidence, so you could actually start right from the point of view of NATO to seek acceptance. If you assume "if" you could basically say the same thing, because now it is not the case because they have not yet given it to you. At least I understand that you're stronger with the word "if." When that's the case, I'm willing to adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u132	"If" is more like "when," i.e. to timeliness, temporaryity and "in temporary" because "as long" actually goes in now, so we do not give room to the diplomatic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u133	Clear, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u134	The minister says she wants to do the diplomatic process first, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u135	That is also the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u136	...it may of course be that this diplomatic process is coming soon to get support for it, but well, that's up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u137	But I understand now that you're going to amend the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u138	Otherwise, I would very much like to invite the coalition to support our motion, because that is what the operative part comes down to. But let's talk about the "if." Is that the three-week deadline? The Turks are allowed to go on, but within three weeks they have to prove it, and if not, we're gonna convict? Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u139	No, it's not. It is, of course, about room for the diplomatic process. Then there is the inference to say that I quote: 'the Turks are allowed to go their own way'. No, I'd like to leave this motion to judge Chamber if the timeline gets a little qualified. I have outlined the timetable to be real and to make maximum use of multilateral and international support and to obtain parallel support for the use and use of Article 51. If we come to the conclusion very quickly that this is absolutely unacceptable, it can of course be done much faster, but I am not talking about two or three weeks, otherwise I would have said: add another date. It is more a question of having to do the reading in stages. The petitioner was able to agree, I presume on behalf of the coalition, with which I am pleased. With that adjustment, as far as I'm concerned, it's Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u140	Then it is up to you, Mrs Karabulut, to vote for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u141	Just in Dutch: the Minister does not yet want to proceed to judgment. Earlier in her speech she talked about three weeks; therefore I would like to ask her again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u142	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u143	Is there or is there not a deadline of three weeks for the Turkish Government to provide that support, as the Minister calls it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u144	I think I've already answered everything. It's not clear to me what I have yet to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u145	Please continue. No, Mrs. Karabulut. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u146	The last motion, the one in part No. 195, I advise. This is a matter of freedom of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-15-tweedekamer-8.u148	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:40 p.m.
