ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security, who is replacing the State Secretary. The question is about the message that Merkel has indicated that the UN migration pact is indeed legally binding on all countries. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV continues to oppose the UN migration pact from this point on. The Netherlands should withdraw the agreement given in Marrakesh to that pact. The PVV won't let us destroy our country. Angela Merkel said last week in the German Parliament that if two thirds of the UN Member States agree tomorrow to a resolution on the Marrakesh migration pact, it will be valid for all Member States. She was clearly in her line. We see here a brief explanation of how the population is being fooled. First, a horror pact is approved and the government parties say that it is not legally binding, and at the end, after the deposit sheet, which is never legally binding in any case, the monkey comes out of the sleeve: the UN is going to introduce it. That's what the PVV warned us about. Nevertheless, I am standing here again as a PVV member to make a final attempt to stop the migration pact. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister still maintain that the content of the migration pact, following the adoption of a resolution on its entry into force, is still not legally binding on the UN Member States? After so many debates, does the Minister finally see that the Netherlands finally cease to be a sovereign nation state with the agreement of the Pact, and that our Jewish Christian values and culture are finally being destroyed? If not, I'd like to get a solid support from the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to be Minister for the Netherlands and not the Minister for half Africa, who calls for half Africa: come here all together? Does he therefore want to be a minister who closes the borders for immigration from Islamic countries and for asylum? Will the Minister arrange that the Netherlands will not support the UN resolution on the Marrakesh Migration Pact and will urge other countries not to support it? Finally, is the Minister prepared to withdraw the approval of the Marrakesh Pact now, after all these facts, or will he persist in the horror scenario that has been rolled out for our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say very briefly how we should see this pact and then I will go into what Mrs Merkel said. The Global Compact is an instrument of global governance. For the first time, it provides an international framework for cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination and expresses the joint desire to strengthen cooperation in the field of migration, with the strong support of everyone, including the countries of origin, to take responsibility for it. What did Mrs Merkel say in Marrakesh? If you will excuse me, in order to make no mistake, I would like to present it in German. Then I'll translate it into my best German-Dutch school. "Bei der Auseinandersetzung um diesen Pakt geht es um nicht mehr und nicht weniger als um die Grundlagen unserer internationalen Zusammenarbeit." In other words: "The Pact is nothing more and nothing less than the principles of international cooperation." A little further down she says: "Es unterliegt der souveränen Selbstbestimmung, was in unserem Intereste liegt. Das besagt der Pakt ausdrücklich: die Mitgliedstaten bestimmen souverän ihre Politik. Gleichzeitig is not legally binding." Translated into my school-German-Dutch language: "The Pact underlines the sovereign self-destination. That's in our best interest, too. The Pact expressly mentions this. The states decide their own sovereign politics. At the same time, it is also not legally binding." That is the end of Mrs Merkel's quotes. I would like to add something to that in response to the questions. In my view, I have now answered the first question, the question of sound justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister also has two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	Oh. I just want to say: yes, I am the Minister of JenV for the Netherlands and, of course, for the Kingdom. Finally, the Netherlands has said quite clearly: we are going to support the pact with that declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's a nice, nice or clever distraction the minister is making here. First, he tells us how to see this pact. So he wants to impose on the people how to look at it. He is not going to tell the people: this is the pact. I asked a question about what Merkel said last week in the Bundestag, in the German House of Representatives, and he comes back with a remark made by Mrs Merkel in Marrakesh. That is no way to debate, I say to the Minister. As far as I'm concerned, he'll have half an hour to answer my questions, but I'll have to get an answer. What Merkel said there does not matter either, because tomorrow the resolution will be put to the vote in the UN. Then it becomes legally binding. That's the question. Mr. Chairman. How is it possible that, after all these warnings given by the PVV, the Minister continues to persevere in the migration pact with these open borders? This cabinet and the minister also just now say to all Dutch people: you are not enough, because we need others who come to strengthen us, for example illiterate people, people with a totally different culture, different standards and other values, for example another, not so positive view of the role of women, people who refuse to build their own country but seek their salvation here in the candy jar of the Netherlands, which the minister opens up to them. I cannot even blame many of the people who want to come here, because they are lured by the smugglers, such as Minister Grapperhaus here, but also the EU, the whole of Rutte III and thus the United Nations. I am not asking the Minister for the first time, and with that I am asking the whole cabinet. Why must the Netherlands be destroyed? What the hell did the Dutch do to treat them like that? Why are Dutch people wrong in your eyes? And why should our culture be replaced by other cultures, with Islam first? I would once again urge the Minister to withdraw the agreement under the Pact, not to support the UN resolution and to ensure that other countries do not either. So answer the questions I have just asked. If you stand up for the Dutch people and you are Minister for the Dutch, for Dutch people like them, you may get applause from the Dutch people in your short political career.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr President, I will stay within two minutes. It is a non-binding pact that formulates the principles of cooperation. It does not suddenly become binding because a UN resolution is being adopted, according to Mrs Merkel, I have now omitted German too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	This question is asked following information on the Voice of Europe site, a site that has been linked several times to Russian fake news. My question to the Minister is therefore: what does the Minister think of the information on this site? And are there indeed links between Voice of Europe and Russian information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	I've taken all the videos over the last few hours, including this video on Voice of Europe. That little film by Mrs Merkel seemed to me to be original. But she also says that I have just paraphrased that it is a non-binding pact, which does not become binding suddenly by adopting a resolution. For the rest, the services, including those under me, are of course very closely monitoring the extent to which the sites that comment or start to comment are or are not original.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	You will be aware that 50PLUS was not in favour of this pact. We have always listened very carefully. Whether it is legally binding or not, we have always received the answer: it is a pact between states and therefore it is not binding. My question was always: what will happen if individuals who think they can derive rights go to court? I want the Secretary's guarantee so badly. What is the government going to do if that happens and therefore it will have legal consequences? We have always been guaranteed that it is in no way legally binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Pact is not binding. To emphasise this, the Secretary of State in Marrakesh made a very clear statement, and the Dutch Government will do so within the framework of the UN General Assembly. This means that even an individual who would like to claim this pact as a possible coloring, let's say: as a possible colouring of an existing legal obligation, will get zero on the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	The text of the Pact at least gives reason to suspect that there are several layers in it, which means that the Pact can be interpreted differently. In connection with the vote in the United Nations, the cabinet has indicated that it wishes to come forward with a statement, with an inlay sheet. In doing so, the cabinet has absorbed the farmer in Europe. What's the deal with the lay-in sheet, with the intended statement? And by which other countries is it supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	I must remain guilty of the question as to which group of countries that is at the moment. I know in any case that until a few days ago it was the Nordic States and that the United Kingdom also indicated its intention to sign, as well as a number of countries in Eastern and Central Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Maybe that information could be searched and sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, I can promise. Today's state of affairs can be reported to your Chamber in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	I have a follow-up question. Of course, it is interesting, particularly in relation to this oral question, whether Germany is also in that list. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	I can't do that right now, but it's up to me and not the Secretary of State. I cannot confirm that with 100% certainty at the moment, but I promise you that you will be given a ruling on this in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	In addition to the question I just asked, I received a half answer. The Minister says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But my question is: if that happens in due course, what are the consequences of this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	I don't always make myself popular with that, but I really don't think that we can get any further with like-dance reasoning in life. We just need to establish things at some point. I have made it clear that in this situation, someone who invokes an existing treaty obligation at the European Court of Human Rights and says that it is being coloured in by the Pact will get nothing from the European judge. That's all I can tell you. If-then we're gonna go into speculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you.
