ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now turn to Mrs Kuik's question, on behalf of the CDA, to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would also like to welcome, on the message 'Pepdrink only for 18-plus'. I call Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I do want to talk about those ant-sweet energy drinks. The Association for Pediatrics raises the alarm about the use of these drinks by children. It may seem innocent, such an energy drink. And of course, anything you take too much is bad. But we know from research in 2012 that energy drinks are being drunk by many young people. We are now also getting the signal from pediatricians about serious consequences, such as restlessness and cardiac arrhythmias. Then, of course, it is often a high intake. But what scares you completely is that the NVK indicates that there are also some deaths, where high doses proved to be the cause. In 2012 the GGD warned about this as well. Now there's another clear signal. Good thing the Secretary of State wants to do research on the health of energy drink. Fine, but is he also willing, because we know that it is bad, to get to work on better information and information right now? And what opportunities does the Secretary of State see to make it less attractive for young people to buy energy drinks? Is the Secretary of State going to investigate this, too? Now we see there's a warning on the can. Those are such small prints that you can wonder if it has any effect at all. We consider that to be insufficient as a CDA. We would like the Secretary of State to work for clear warnings here too, as is the case with cigarettes. My third question is: what role does the Secretary of State see for industry itself? For example, do they also comply with their own marketing guidelines? We see that at 140 out of 400 schools the drink is banned. It is, of course, very nice that these schools are working on this. Can the other schools be called upon to do so? Finally, is this also included in the prevention agreement, in order to make agreements with sports associations, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Clear questions from Mrs. Kuik. Firstly, on behalf of the cabinet, I would also like to say that the cabinet understands the concerns expressed about the excessive use of energy drinks. Everyone will agree that too many energy drinks are simply not healthy, because of the caffeine content but also because of the multitude of calories and sugars in them. Mrs Kuik asks what we are going to do in the short term. I did say yesterday on behalf of the cabinet that we intend to launch an investigation. In the very short term we also commission that research, to a renowned institute such as the RIVM or the Health Council, to present a number of things. For example, we want to give an idea of the extent of the problem in the Netherlands. We take the signals of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics very seriously, of course, but what exactly is the extent of the problem? I don't think anyone in the Netherlands knows that. In which setting is this excessive use especially taking place? Those are research questions I'd like to put to you. To what extent, for example, does it happen in combination with alcohol? It could also be a question of research, and I think that is a very good suggestion from Mrs Kuik, in addition to the question of how it is regulated in other countries, how we can possibly design restrictive measures in the Netherlands if we are convinced that they have added value. This could include how to make the consumption or purchase of this product less attractive. I admit that will also be a research question, so we will certainly take that with us. Mr. Chairman. A lot's been going on. The sector itself does a lot of things. Mrs Kuik rightly referred to the code made by the Dutch association Frisdranken, Waters, Juice itself. I would also like to promise Mrs Kuik that I will talk to this sector to ask how seriously they comply with their commitments. As far as I am concerned, very important is the National Prevention Agreement, which we are taking steps towards. I would like to raise this point. I have another meeting on Thursday with a whole group of people involved in society about this prevention agreement. As far as I am concerned, it is a very important issue to address this too, partly in the light of the research I intend to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. One more question remains: the one about the fine print, the warning. When they're so small, I wonder if it's having any effect at all. Thank you for taking into account the question of restrictive measures. Finally, I am curious when the Secretary of State expects to have the investigation completed so that we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	As far as the small print is concerned, you are talking about the category "possible direction of solution." It's no use to anyone reading small prints that nobody can read. That's just a fake solution. I want to make this one of the themes I discuss in the search for solutions. In the context of the national prevention agreement, we are also thinking very carefully about such matters. So I would like to take the suggestion with me to pay attention to this. I am not saying that from August it will be very big letters or very bad pictures, like smoking, but I will take the suggestion with me. So it's being discussed. As far as the scope of the research is concerned, the national prevention agreement should be concluded by the summer, so we need to move very quickly. If it is up to me, this research will therefore be launched in the very short term and will also be completed before the summer. That's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. Then Mrs. Kooiman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	This time they are pediatricians, but visit any dentist and he will say: yes, we also see the enormous damage to teeth of young people, if they come to us already. Year after year, agreements are made with industry and industry does not stick to them. I mention the agreements on advertising specifically aimed at these young people and the adjustment of, for example, the sugar content in the energy drinks. When Minister Schippers threatened the salt content...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	...in dealing with the bread with a law, you could do it at once. Shouldn't we be a little stricter for industry and perhaps just threaten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I don't know if threatening is my favorite hobby, but I take this signal very seriously. We need to keep all options and variants open. I would like to talk about this with those involved, not only with the sector but certainly also with those who understand health aspects. It's got a lot of business going on. If you're talking about the damage that sugars can cause and about products that contain a lot of calories, we can still go for a round in the supermarkets. I also think that we should be careful not to shoot too much hail or what is it called? Shooting a mosquito with a cannon. I don't think energy drinks are mosquitoes, but we should be very focused on this. The problem is, of course, wider. There are many more consumer goods that are super harmful to health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	But I started my answer by saying that I want to keep all the options open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	I was in line at the grocery store the other day. To me, a grandmother took care of both her grandchildren, two boys about ten years old. Both a sugar drink. I'm sure the grandmother was for the best with her grandchildren, but she took care of it. I thought to myself, "What shall I do now? Do I have to say something or not?" I let it go for a while, but it did give me the idea that people just really don't know what they're buying. In addition to all the good commitments he has already made, will the Secretary of State also include in the study how we can improve information on sugar drinks in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think that's a fair question. I would like to admit that we are also taking that aspect into account. In my answer I would also have liked to say "I didn't know exactly what questions I'd get "that this is a primary responsibility of parents, but certainly also of grandparents." You can also make yourself very popular as a grandparent with such things. I do not think that this is the way the grandmother wanted to do it, but I would like to include the information on how people deal with health aspects and especially with energy drinks in the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	Not all grandmothers do that. Not even grandpas, huh? No, I'm hearing from the clerk. Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	There's a lot to worry about. I am also glad that Mrs Kuik is aggregating this. The Secretary of State has agreed to investigate. I'd love it if the results could get a little further before the summer, around April or something. This is a very important subject. In addition, the Secretary of State may be able to include it in the European connection, because, of course, it is also an important issue for our whole Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm aware of the urgency. Not for nothing have I also said that I am prepared to start that investigation. I'd like to make a very serious investigation of that. We can do some sort of quick scan, but I'm committed to doing careful research. In answer to your question I say that I also see the urgency and want to translate it into the research assignment. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. There are a number of options that he would like to explore. I've always learned from my mother that everything "too" stands for isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Except "satisfied."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yeah, except "satisfied." Too much soda is not good. Taking too many sugars is not good. So too much energy drink is not good either. Apart from all the options that are now coming along: does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is primarily the responsibility of parents to bring in children's education that everything that stands for "too" is not good, so taking too many energy drinks? Does he agree with me that there is a primary role for the parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's the best I can say. I think it is a primary responsibility of parents and, by the way, of schools. Mrs Kuik rightly referred to the fact that schools are also doing what is necessary. So it's a primary responsibility of the parents. Taking that assumption into account, we obviously have a culture in the Netherlands in which many young people take on a lot of energy drinks. Maybe we should take a closer look to see if we can organise an approach. But I would like to return to you in the context of the prevention agreement. Then I will explain what measures we think we can take and which are most appropriate. But the primary responsibility of the parents is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	When's that gonna work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	Around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	So that comes in the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yeah, this calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. After the suspension, we will continue with the arrangement of work. We don't have any votes, so the Secretary of State can leave.
