ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the budget for Education, Culture and Science (35000-VIII). I warmly welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media and give Mr Beertema the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just say straight away: the Rutte III cabinet has made a mess of the public sector. There is even a system crisis in education. I do not leave an opportunity to say this, and I do not say it lightly: there is a systemic crisis. Primary education is in a state of chaos. In primary schools there is no rest, no structure, no discipline, no transfer of knowledge, but unrest and chaos, a huge administrative pressure on teachers because fearful managers and directors want to cover themselves against even imaginary demands that the government would make, parents who walk in and out and put pressure on teachers, which has also been reinforced by making the school's advice leading instead of the imperfect Cito test for the choice of further education, chaotic schedules by the many part-timers and too low initial salaries. Result? No thoughtful talented youngster with ambition still thinks about standing in front of the classroom. The PVV has warned about this for years and now the consequences are evident. Primary schools that have to introduce a four-day week. That's a big deal. Classes sent home for weeks because there are no invaders available for a sick teacher that is also quite a burdening the parents with often insurmountable problems. If that is not a system crisis, then we do not remember it. All the solutions put forward are symptom control. The extra effort to tap into the quiet reserve teachers, seduce people to work more days; it doesn't help enough. The extra investment the cabinet made in the reward is very much earned for the teachers. But a few percent more purchasing power is not going to convince young people to opt for a career in education. Why don't they want to go to class anymore? That's for the same reason I've ever left education. Dozens of years as a teacher I practiced a wonderful profession, which was challenging, where I had the freedom to decide together with my team in what way we shaped the core goals of the qualification dossier in daily teaching practice. We did so in a mixture of direct instruction and practical assignments. You should google, Chairman, on that term "direct instruction." This is often opposed to self-discovery learning, but where direct instruction always comes out more favorably: greater learning earnings, more effective teaching time but above all satisfied teachers. We were still the teachers with knowledge, real knowledge that we transferred to our students. Yes, transferred; passing, I must say. We were the teachers with a "story," as is now called derogatory by the education innovators of the past and now. Because the teacher with the story is out of date. That is what the modernists of the second phase, of the competence-driven education, of the 21st century skills whatever they are and of Curriculum.nu say. Mr. Chairman. I have said it many times, and I maintain that: we can only make education attractive if we create all those organisations that are engaged in innovations that make the educational provinces so overcrowded, throw out all those fellow-eaters from the educational grape, thereby saving millions, creating peace, making the teacher lead again and making knowledge lead again. Small-scale education where students are known. Where a sober serving management is that facilitates teachers to do their beautiful work as autonomous professionals, as autonomous teams. Only then will the profession not become attractive; then it will become a wonderful profession again. I know, Mr. Chairman, that my analysis is not shared by the Cabinet. The education innovators I have called the administrative nomads have hijacked the education and they are almost without exception D66-nehaucht. I'm not under any illusions. They don't know about neighborhoods, especially now that they have their own D66 minister. But I'm sure of one thing: a system crisis doesn't go away by itself. I have said what I have to say, and I await with great care the disaster that we are facing with open eyes. One slight consolation, a very weak one, I say to it that the shore will turn the ship. Then we come back to you, the rulers under whose responsibility this happened. You're a system operator. Under your responsibility, schools must now move on to even put parents in the classroom, because no one wanted to. Higher education, President, is also getting closer and closer to a systemic crisis. It is a crisis that is deliberately sought by drivers working in a shrinking market. "A shrinking market" because they have made education a pseudomarket, while it was once a utility. We have a situation where there are fewer Dutch students to serve. That's a natural, demographic given. It should be the first and only responsibility of these directors to serve Dutch students. However, there is a lack of awareness among the administrators that education should still be a utility. As a result, they move to attract students from all over the world. And even they want to set up affiliates in faraway China. To this end, only for reasons of competition and survival, universities have moved on to far-reaching engulation and internationalisation. Our Dutch students must therefore compete with students from all over the world. The consequences, which the PVV has warned about from the outset, are now being felt. There are massive lectures. I hear they're on the stairs. There is a lack of personal guidance, lack of accommodation, lack of academic depth. Even the universities themselves are now beginning to see the bad consequences. The budget for higher education remains the same, the number of teachers and professors remains more or less the same, the available student accommodation remains the same, but it must all be divided among 122,000 additional students from 162 different countries. There goes the study site for our own children in the fixus studies. There goes the dorm room for our own kids. There goes the personal attention and guidance for our Dutch student. That is where our beautiful Dutch language of teaching, and therefore as a language of culture, is placed in the old dirt of history, to be replaced by the primitive "pidgin English" that we know from, for example, the EP in Brussels. Here too, there is only one workable solution: stop ensnaring higher education in all those studies where the use of English has no demonstrable added value. Then foreign students are still welcome; of course. But they will have to learn Dutch, and therefore also get to know our beautiful Dutch culture. That's an adventure they don't know now. The uninhibited influx of foreigners will then be much better controlled. It is high time that the Minister and the Chamber asked the following fundamental question. What exactly is the problem? Do we fight with a shortage of Dutch students? Or do we have too many universities? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. On November 24th, by the way, the students will come to The Hague to protest against the policy of..., yes, of their own D66 minister. I wonder what she's going to say to the students, most of whom voted for her. I wish her a lot of strength from this place, and a good story. I would just like to make one more point, Mr President. The first is about the more or less mandatory mosque visits, especially in primary education. They're annoying for a lot of parents, and for my party. Again and again those pictures and videos of children who even learn to pray to Allah. Why are they sent to mosques to even learn to pray there, to mosques which the Turkish President calls "the barracks of Islam"? And he's right, Chairman, that Turkish President. Mosques are the barracks of totalitarian ideology that is Islam, an ideology that is completely contrary to our freedoms, even our Constitution. Why do our kids have to go there? I ask the Minister to put an end to this practice, which raises so much resistance in the country. I intend to table a motion on this, so I would like a response from the Minister in advance. Finally, Mr President. The politically correct culture throughout education, but especially in university education, is becoming more and more evident every day. The minister, like her predecessor, the PvdA Minister, continued to deny this bravely. She did this every time, despite the many examples I gave, such as the sharia workshops at Vrije Universiteit. Other examples of professors who manifest themselves much more as left-wing activist than can be read in my article on ThePostOnline entitled "We don't need this intellectual elite anymore." I'll refer you to it. There's a whole zipper of examples there. Once again, this week, there is a threat of a riot at the University of Amsterdam. Room for Discussion invited Jordan Peterson from the University of Toronto. What's going on? 78 academics from the UvA are trying to smother the open debate with him. They want to put a guard next to him, apparently to keep Mr. Peterson in check. They didn't think that was necessary when the anti-Semite Abou Jahjah and the Black Piethater Sylvana Simons were invited there. Those are tough activists without any academic credentials. The manifesto that sends out these 78 is a disgrace. It's an attack on academic freedom. As far as I'm concerned, every signatory has disqualified himself as an academic. They are left-wing nooses with a desire for totalitarian thinking, which was characteristic of both the left-wing regimes of the GDR and the Soviets and the right-wing regimes of the National Socialists. We must take a political stand against this. Today, by the way, a letter was published in Folia, from some of those confused academics of the UvA. It is an incomprehensible letter, in which it was also incredibly opposed to this meeting. I therefore call on the Minister and my fellow spokesmen to join me in attending this debate tomorrow in Amsterdam. We should not do that so much to side with Jordan Peterson or the side of his opponents as to take one side: take a stand for the open debate and academic freedom. Moreover, this is my final remark, Mr President, and I expect the Minister, together with her colleague for Justice and Security, to ensure that this meeting is conducted in an orderly manner and that extreme left-wing, hysterical scum does not have a chance to compromise the safety of the participants and the listeners. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now give the floor to Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u4	I'm kind of missing the interruptions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u5	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u6	Mr. Chairman. A teenager with a bald day probably prefers to turn around once more when she hears: getting up, time for a day of good education! At least my teenager does. But most parents, students, teachers, administrators, employers and politicians think good education is very important. But is good education good enough? What is the quality of education? And what can quality cost? This cabinet has a high priority for education, and that's nice. Also next year, more money will go to education, a total of EUR 33 billion. That is 3 billion more than last year, because extra money leads to better quality, so we hope. In order to assess whether this is the case, we must first agree on what education quality really is. Today, this Chamber is discussing the Education Budget for 2019. For the VVD, the main question is: does this budget lead to better education quality? My contribution concerns the quality of our further education: secondary vocational education, higher vocational education and university education. My colleague Rudmer Heerma will later discuss primary and secondary education. Quality is a container concept. This was already apparent in the debate on quality agreements. The VVD is pleased that this minister and the VSNU, the Association of Colleges and the student associations have managed to establish quality agreements together, and that they are tested by the NVAO. However, the VVD does not find the reward for the institutions that actually implement the agreements well on the skinny side, or vice versa, the punishment strong enough if institutions fail. 3% it is. The VVD would like to know from this minister how it came to that 3%. What are her considerations? And is there room to increase that percentage? I have some ideas about that, but I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Quality, therefore, is at the heart of good education. I've asked students what they think of quality education. That's gonna get some really nice reactions. On the basis of six quotes, I would like to mention our concerns. In every contribution it came back: a teacher of quality is at the heart of quality education. Knowledge transfer, inspiration, a hold for some, for others a source of confusion and new ideas; that is what teachers can bring. The balance between research and education, especially in university education, does not always seem the right one. Career at the university can only be done through the research route. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that educational talents should also be part of a career path, including at universities? And what opportunities does she see to stimulate this route? I'd like a response. Sanne says: "Quality of course begins with the basics, the results of education." Show what you've learned, what you can and know by now; that's the result of education. Getting a diploma within a certain time and thus finding a suitable job is a result of education. We can also call it return. Yield's good. It shows that education does what it promises. It shows that the investment of community money in education is worth it. Let's not put those results into perspective, that return, so please. As far as the VVD is concerned, yield is and remains an important criterion in the agreements with the institutions and in the budget and accountability in this Chamber. Can the Minister make a commitment to this? Gwenny says: "I think that my teachers also work at companies. I know that they teach us things that are now and later relevant in the labour market." Our Dutch vocational education is of high quality and is at the international top. The OECD also concludes that. That's how we put our MBOs on the map. Matches such as WorldSkills Netherlands and EuroSkills are also successful. In those competitions, our Dutch mbo's show why they deserve the title Best Vakman or Best Vakman. They're inspiring events. The MBO ambassadors and best MBO teachers also contribute to the quality of the MBO. In secondary vocational education companies already have an influence on the requirements of substantive quality. 25% of training courses have qualification files compiled by the labour market. We think that is a good development. In this way, education will be better adapted to the questions of today, tomorrow and the next century. A mechanic is no longer someone with a toolbox full of English keys. He's got a laptop to read a car. The construction and engineering sectors seem to be at the forefront of this in relation to, for example, health care, where smart and loving care goes hand in hand and the knowledge of e-health and home automation is a crucial complement to the profession of caregiver. Can the Minister indicate how she and the SBB are shaping the preparations needed for all these skills in all sectors? The link between labour market and education also plays an important role in higher vocational education. The B of vocational education seems to fall somewhat behind in this respect. As far as the VVD is concerned, that B can get a firmer push at the colleges. Are all colleges now in conversation with entrepreneurs and the business community in order to implement the content and development of qualifications? What about on a national level? We think it is a good thing that much more exchange is taking place. Some colleges already do that very well with business premises and breeding places, with teachers who give a few days of lecture and are just ICTs or entrepreneurs for a few days. But far from everywhere, exchange is the standard. Students argue that the internship they want is not approved despite the good internship supervisor. But the company is too small or it exists too short according to the college checklist. Or students' practical experience is rejected for unclear reasons when applying for a master's degree because the teacher actually doesn't understand much about professional practice. How can the Minister encourage colleges to create much more exchange? We have three suggestions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u7	There is an interruption by Mr Futselaar, but perhaps you will first mention those suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u8	Yes. The first is about the grant for practical learning. That's a very good way to support that B. In any case, this subsidy is already well used in the MBO. Fortunately, during the General Political Reviews we decided by a majority of this Chamber to maintain that Grant Scheme practice. This is a positive signal for the vocational apprenticeship, but participating companies are now uncertain about the continuity of the grant. It has now been committed for a year, while stretches sometimes go longer. The grant is in the budget for three years, which is why VVD and CDA want the scheme to go through on a multiannual basis. Students, learning companies and schools will then be assured that these leaders of the future and in the coming years will actually be able to follow the appropriate training. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Then there's the second suggestion. The HBO does not know bbl but does practice learning via the dual route. Students who wish to further develop their professional skills through exchanges with the labour market can do so in theory either in dual or by doing part-time study, but in practice it still does not work as well as in the MBO. Education does not fit in well with the rhythm of study and work that students and companies consider relevant. Can the Minister talk to employers and colleges to improve this connection? I'd like a commitment. The third suggestion concerns attention to education by people who are still working in practice. A number of companies sometimes lend employees temporarily to teach. Or employees find such a double job very valuable themselves. We would like to see the obstacles encountered by employees and companies eliminated. Can the Minister discuss with employers and educational institutions what obstacles there are now and see with us how this exchange can be improved? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u9	In general, my picture of how colleges work with companies is a little more positive than that of Mrs Tielen; but that aside. I felt triggered by her comment about internships. She said: then an internship is not approved because the company is too small or too short. I felt attracted by this, because I myself sometimes rejected an internship because the company was too small or too short. That usually happens to protect students. From a one-man business that drives his company on twelve trainees, who actually do all the work, one can really ask: is this an internship or is this competition in the labour market? And if a company doesn't exist after two months, a student misses his internship and gets delayed. Does Mrs Tielen therefore recognise that such rules often have a purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u10	I'd like to acknowledge that. I totally agree with Mr. Futselaar that internships, apprenticeships or whatever name you attach to them should not be a way of taking advantage of the energy and motivation of young people. At the same time, I also know plenty of examples of small businesses that just do not comply with the FTE standard of the university and which university counsellors very often don't know about because they don't visit them. Then it really becomes a paper reality rather than a good match between business and college. I also agree with Mr Futselaar that some colleges are very good at it, but there are still a number of courses and colleges that are a little distant from daily professional practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u11	I can imagine that, but then my follow-up question is: do you expect the Minister to really intervene? You can talk to colleges to encourage them to do better, but I think that's the kind of conversation that's been going on for years. There is a VVD every two years who says: HBO and business need to work better together. What do you expect more than is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u12	It's nice that Mr. Futselaar recognizes me in a tradition of VVDs calling for a link between labour market and education. I would like the Minister to answer that question at the Association of Colleges, which is likely to have a new chairman in the short term. What I hear from employers is that the contact between colleges and businesses is really lagging behind in this respect. I believe that the Minister can play a stimulating role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u13	Mr. Kwint, you're not registered as a speaker. I can see your name on the list, but there aren't any minutes. Oh, those minutes you do together. How did you split it up? Can I know that, too? Eight and eleven minutes. Well, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u14	Mr President, you didn't think I was gonna pass up this opportunity, did you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u15	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u16	No, exactly. Then we agree. I was intrigued by Mrs Tielen's comment on practical learning, precisely because I think we could find each other there. What exactly is the question she put to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u17	In the budget there is a three-year amount of practical learning, but the Minister has only promised this grant for the coming year. This means that it is uncertain for the people involved, companies, schools and students what happens next. I would like to ask the Minister for a commitment, perhaps by means of a motion; that also depends on you to record it at least for those years, so that continuity also leads to certainty everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u18	That motion will be fine. I've got it right there. A month ago we discussed the VMBO and the MBO. I literally made the proposal 'boys, give certainty to those SMEs who now do not know what the future of this scheme is'. That motion was immediately referred to the gross waste by the coalition. I appreciate moving insight, but I do like to hear what the VVD has triggered to suddenly come to this progress of insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u19	I would now have liked to have the two-for-12 bell so that I could ask my second how over time and at what point that insight came or didn't come, because as you know, we meet less often in debates because I am not a spokesperson mbo. So I do not know how that moving insight came about, but we are convinced that it has a good reason, so let us shake hands there, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u21	Almost all students said: "Quality I think I can make my own route to development." The VVD considers the creation of your own learning path, flex study and modular learning crucial elements of the quality of our education. That is why we are also pleased that the Minister wants to extend the pilot flex study and pay per study point per coming year. We would also like to extend it to first-year and part-time students. That has just been mentioned in a VAO. We would like to hear from the Minister how she can ensure that as many institutions and training are involved as possible. Tessa said: "I consider the added value of a training and the distinction that I can make with respect to others to be important in good education." Of course, no individual, no student, no colleague is exactly the same. Everyone's unique. Distinction is a logical element of good education for students. It is then a distinction between institutions and between courses so that students can distinguish themselves You can also call this "differentiation." That is also what the 2010 Veerman report recommended. The VSNU is now revisiting that report. We are curious about the developments, but this is also a good reason to look at the colleges. If the Minister is going to talk to the colleges, can she tell us what she expects of them? In addition, the distinction between training can be demonstrated by the special characteristics, by means of the labels "good" and "excellent." The Minister has indicated that the visitation report will become public and that it will thus implement the Tielen motion on these labels. However, that is not enough for Tielen. The training that already has a label "good" or "excellent" is proud of it, because they have made an effort to distinguish themselves. We would have expected the Minister to indicate that training could voluntarily apply for such a feature and that this could therefore become specifically visible. Can the Minister respond to that? Then about the labour market, because in the end all students also say: "I just want to do nice work later and learn to do it." Demand on the labour market and the supply of graduates are not always synchronised. The demand is particularly high for technical training and care training. A lot of these courses have set up a numerus fixus. The VVD is pleased that the Minister also sees this as a problem and that she is working on a solution, but a solution also requires insight. Does the Minister know where the students who have missed registration in the past due to a numerus fixus end up? What professions are they going to do? What training courses? Does the Minister have an insight into that? Does she agree with us that it is a shame that those motivated students end up somewhere else, if that is the case? It remains unclear to us how much money will be needed to allow more students, preferably next year, to join the beta studies and technical studies on which a numerus fixus is attached this year. Does the Minister have an insight into this and, if so, can she share it with us? Speaking of cost insight, I would like to devote a few more minutes to the question of transparency and understanding in three areas, namely the figures, the funding and the agreements. Does more or less money go to every student now? What are the amounts involved? We find it awkward, or perhaps annoying, that a lot of decisions we make are based on facts that are either not harsh or incomplete and at least lead to conceptual confusion, whereas the estimates are accurate, yet for six years in a row they have caused millions of additional reversals. Can we get more accurate windows? Every year, we're gonna have to add up to millions. It seems that this also has to do with unknown predictions about students from abroad. Is it perhaps an idea to window the foreign students separately? That way we might be better able to evaluate how accurate the numbers are. Then it's about the funding. I see I have one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u22	Is that what it is? Asking for a technical trick to estimate foreign students separately? To do what? 122,000 foreign students: we're being stormed. We are at international level the threat of internationalisation. I heard a story this morning from the mother of a group member of mine who is half Greek and who was surprised at a city bus in Athens with a huge plaque with 'come to study in the Netherlands'. What are we doing? That's your party working on that. Your party is actively recruiting Greek students to study here in Athens. And now you come up with: let's go windows. What do you want to do with that? You open the border and then you come up with an estimate. Do you agree with me that it is much better to call that idiot to order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u23	It is nice that Mr Beertema asks me that question, but he also knows what answer I have to it, because we have had discussions on this before in various debates. We believe that internationalisation is an integral part of our higher education. On the one hand, because our position is important internationally, on the other hand, because we need good people. Why I raise this point is because, despite the accurate estimates, we have to turn millions every year. You can predict how many children pass through higher education courses after certain courses in secondary education. You can predict that very well when you look at Dutch demographics. One of the explanations is that we cannot predict very well who is coming to us from Europe. Now let's get this straight. At least we can see how we can prevent millions of euros from being magical every year in the middle of the year. There's my irritation far more than yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u24	Then all those students who miss out on these fixus places on those Greek students or who can't find a dorm room, shouldn't be at the VVD? We're being flooded, the house is being washed away and you're doing something with a toilet unstoppper. That doesn't make any sense. You facilitate it all and all your talk is technical tricks that don't make any sense at all. All these students should know that. Don't vote for the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u25	Mr. Beertema, you make it a beautiful metaphor. I've got some great footage there, too. The point is that here in the Netherlands we have very good education, which our Dutch students must use, but for which we also want very good talents from abroad. I do not want to close those borders at all, something Mr Bertema always wants, because I believe that the Netherlands benefits from its international position. This is also reflected in all the figures that are known about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u27	Transparency of funding. The minister's gonna work on that funding system. Good, because we would like to do so quickly and we do have some wishes for that. But the degree of funding per student is quite different from one study to another. Different institutions or organisations have different figures on this. The difference between a language student, a beta-technical student or a medical student is always different. A ratio of 1 to 3 or a ratio of 1 to almost 4 influences the distribution of educational funds. I would like to have one clear and complete overview of how these ratios are between the differences, so that we can better conduct the debate on funding on this basis. My question to the Minister is whether she can give it to us. Then we'll talk about the O.V. agreements. It is unclear to the Chamber how much money from this OCW budget is spent on how many kilometres travelled by how many students. There doesn't seem to be any insight into the distribution of the money between the various O.V. companies, let alone any idea of the cost of every mile travelled. Then it is quite difficult to decide whether the amount is good for our education. That is why the question to the Minister is how far she wants to go to force the public transport companies to give more insight into this and whether she is prepared to ask the public transport companies to make the travel movements of students public. I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the academic climate. In the spring, the Minister screamed about the VVD/CDA motion about academic freedom: there was still research done by the Academy and that showed that there is no problem at all? Last week it turned out that this practice might be something different than we all want. A lecture at the UvA by Canadian professor Peterson was made difficult because his academic work does not please a number of students. We would really like to call this "self-censorship." What is the Minister's response to such incidents? Or are they now called "developments"? The Tielen/Van der Molen motion on the prevention of self-censorship has been adopted. Can the Minister explain how she's going to carry out that motion? Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports any ambition for quality education. That is why we have asked many questions, so that with real insights we can also make a stronger contribution on behalf of students, teachers and future employers to education of a fantastic quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u28	Mr Bertema has another question, Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u29	In the field of the academic climate, of course, we recognize each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u30	Part of it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u31	I've indicated that I'm going there at least. Will you ride with me tomorrow? It saves CO emissions and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u32	That's a friendly challenge. I don't know if I'm gonna go into that, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u33	It starts at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u34	Then I guess I'm doing other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u35	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u36	Mr. Chairman. Freedom, responsibility, but no commitment. For many years we have spent more money on education, the OCW budget grows, the amount available per student and the reserves of schools grow. Last year, in primary education alone, this amounted to 120 million euros and the reserves there would amount to about 1.5 billion euros. There is only one problem: the quality of our education is falling. We fall on international rankings and children can count worse and read less and less well, for example, and move less and less well. More money but less quality is a bad combination. Mr. Chairman. This coalition invests heavily in education. An additional 450 million have been made available to combat the workload in primary education. I understand from a lot of schools that this extra money really makes the difference within the school. Has the Minister updated the picture of how schools are using these resources? What choices do they make to reduce the workload? And do we actually monitor which choices ultimately have the most effect? In addition, thanks to this coalition, there is a substantial increase in salaries for all teachers in primary education. We have more applications with the pabos, there is more career perspective for teachers, the workload is reduced and there is more room for side-intromers. These are all positive signals to tackle the shortage of teachers that exists. And no, we can't do that tomorrow or next week, but developments are moving in the right direction. In short, as there is more investment in education in all kinds of areas, we can expect that quality will increase. If, after everything we do, that is still not the case, then apparently more money is not the solution. To be honest, I think that we are now allowed to draw that conclusion. That brings me to the lumpsum, that big bag of money that any school board can spend almost at its own discretion. That gives great freedom. That's a big good. That requires responsibility. A number of boards may have something to do with that, but the lumpsum has been far too non-binding in our opinion. When introducing the lumpsum, we assumed that each board had the intrinsic ambition not only to get the best out of the student but also to strive for the highest possible level for the school. This assumption appears to have been wrong, because five out of six schools consider the basic level sufficient and then invest insufficient in improving quality in order to get more out of the student and the school. We give fantastic education internationally to the student who needs extra help, and rightly so. But that should not relieve a school of responsibility in order to get the best out of the large group of students who, in principle, do roll through that education. The best students, the talents, the students who can do something very special, often get far too little attention. And we, the House of Representatives, the highest body in this country, can hardly or hardly send for that. It cannot be the case that very similar schools with similar pupils in similar neighbourhoods and with similar staff can achieve such different results. The total amount involved is around EUR 33 billion in taxpayers' money. That's why the VVD wants to get more grip on the lumpsum, based on the principle: more quality and more result also gives more space. What does that look like? This means that schools that do well get more space and more time for innovation. They get more development space, less inspection and fewer rules. And schools that only pursue the basic level get the reins a little more attracted. We must help them to achieve more results and to rise above the basic level. That is what we need to look at the results and we may need rules there. We also demand more accountability from these schools. We're gonna have a big talk about the lumpsum soon. I wonder if we can get further than, for example, just placing bulkheads to make teachers earn more. I'd especially like to see how we can get a better grip on the lumpsum. For schools, they should not accept that the basic level is sufficient. They must strive for the highest possible level for their school, in order to enable the student to perform at the highest possible level for him or her and to challenge himself to achieve the best of himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u37	I find this a very interesting speech by Mr Heerema of the VVD. He says maybe we should get a little more grip on the lumpsum. But I have also heard him say twice that there are schools that only pursue the basic level, which apparently do not want to get out of their pupils and who think that a tight enough is enough. Does Mr Heerema really think that there are people working in education who say: well, I don't have to run so fast; I'm pursuing the basic level and that's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u38	This is not what I think, this is what I see following, for example, the State of Education. It states that five out of every six schools have the highest level and that only one out of every six schools strives for a higher level. It's in the State of Education. That's not something I find or what I think of. It's something I read in the State of Education report. In a previous debate just before the recess, Mrs Westerveld reminded me of taking reports seriously. Well, I'd like to return that to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u39	I am very pleased that my colleague from the VVD has read the State of Education so well. It is true that in the State of Education it says that a whole number of schools are at the basic level. But this is mainly due to the fact that the workload is enormous. Schools have trouble rowing with the belts they have. Teachers, for example, have full classes and some schools have quite a few children who are lagging behind in teaching. That's what's being cut back. I would therefore ask the VVD to include in that plan schools that simply have a more difficult population. Is that part of your plan? Are we also going to look at schools that have a more difficult population, to give them extra resources to be able to give good education to all pupils?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u40	I don't know what it looks like, either. I think that's what we need to work out. We've done that before on other subjects. We look forward to 2019 and we note that very similar schools in similar neighbourhoods with comparable students and staff achieve very different results. If that is up to the students, because they would be in a difficult category, then we absolutely must take it with us. I honestly don't know how we're going to weigh that up with funding. We want to get a better grip on the lumpsum. The fact is that the amount we pay per pupil increases from €2,500 in 1994 to €7,600 in 2023. There is actually only an ascending line in the funding. In 2014 there was a slump. That is the only year in which there was a slightly lower level of funding. For us, therefore, it is simply crazy that there is apparently more money available year by year for each pupil and that the budget of OCW is growing year by year, but the quality of education seems to be falling. As a government, I think we can send too little on that. We have the lumpsum discussion. We have a number of MPs in the preparation group of the lumpsum. How can we get a grip on the lumpsum? I have some ideas about that, and I'm putting it here. I hope we'll find each other on that in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u41	Mr Rudmer Heerema is familiar with the fact that international studies show that we have relatively good education in the Netherlands for relatively little money? Education is efficient, it's in the reports. Could it be that Dutch education through the lumpsum is so good for so little money? Is that also an option Mr Heerema would like to consider?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u42	I do not share one observation made by Mr Bruins. I find it too easy to say generically that our education is so incredibly good. There are different types of pupils in education. I named it, too. We are incredibly good at teaching the group that needs extra attention, to children in the classroom who could otherwise miss the boat. This puts us in the top five of the world, but it also brings us down on the international rankings. We are good at guiding the group of children who do roll through education, but we are not doing well enough in education for the group of children who have talents. Generically, we may have very good education. Is that because of the lumpsum? Yeah, that could be an advantage, but it could also be a disadvantage. Let's take a look at that. But we must also note that there is still a great deal to gain, particularly at the top of the education system, in order to ensure that these children get the best out of themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u43	I think every teacher and master with heart and soul every day is trying to get the best out of the kids in class. What I'm a little afraid of is the VVD's excellenteritis: everything and everyone needs to be excellent. Each school has to give proper education that is set out in the law, the inspection looks at it and that's what happens, but you can't expect everyone to become excellent. Then the new average becomes excellent. Then we'll drive each other crazy. The masters and teachers work very hard to provide proper education. This is just of good quality internationally in the Netherlands and this happens for relatively little money. I would like to say to Mr Heerema that this might be due to the freedom of use and to how the money of the lump sum is used in the workplace itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u44	Five out of six schools have that basic level, as I have already said. I don't think we should settle for that. We need to be able to help lift them to a higher level. I think Mr Bruins should be able to share with me that we should at least question it if comparable schools in similar neighbourhoods with comparable student populations, comparable teachers and comparable funding achieve very different educational outcomes. Is the way in which we help and support these schools, but can also control them, properly arranged? That's what I'm looking for. That is why I believe that we should be able to try to conduct the lump sum debate in this way. I have given a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u45	Very briefly, Mr. Bruins, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u46	As far as professional accountability is concerned, we can find each other. I agree with you that freedom and good accountability belong together. But let's not throw away the baby with the bathwater and start to cast doubt on the lumpsum here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u47	I'm a little lost. On the one hand, I hear Mr Heerema saying that there is nothing more beautiful than the lumpsum, because it gives a lot of freedom. He doesn't want any bulkheads. At the same time, I hear him say that precisely in terms of quality, getting a grip and being able to steer, something must happen to the lumpsum. According to him, the differences in the quality of schools, which exist, are apparently due to the way in which they are financed. Can he be a little more specific about what he wants with the lumpsum? Is the lumpsum gonna stay or are we gonna send? It can't be both true at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u48	Somewhere in the middle of this part of my input I indicated that the large bag of money that goes to every school board and can be spent at its own discretion gives great freedom. That is a great good thing, but I also put a few questions straight away. The VVD is ready to see if the lumpsum we have now is the best we have to offer schools. We all have very different schools, but we approach them in exactly the same way. Shouldn't we make some sort of division? Shouldn't we deal with schools that are doing very well, a little more freer and more spatial than with schools that might need a little more help? The lumpsum is the only control device we have. You could put that in for that. That's the course I'm trying to sail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u49	Of course, it is an interesting question whether the lumpsum is the only instrument that we can control. I've also made other suggestions. We will have discussions about how you pay, for example. I've made some suggestions for that. You could also pay directly for the schools. That's a thought, too. That's all gonna come around one more time if we've looked into that properly. However, my question is whether we should not be focusing much more on the quality of those in charge of these schools and administrations. 'Cause maybe that's where the big difference is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u50	I'll share that opinion. When I look at schools in similar neighbourhoods with similar students, comparable funding and similar student populations, I notice that the difference is very often made by the one at the top of such a school. What is the background of such a person? Is that driver trained to do so, or is that someone who, for example, passed through and perhaps would have preferred to stand in front of the classroom? I'm looking for that, too. We could be very comfortable with how drivers end up dealing with the lumpsum. I have indicated in my contribution that we must note that not all schools or school boards could handle it well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u51	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u52	However, through the quality of those in charge, Mr Heerema now comes back to just one aspect of leading, namely how the manager then deals with the lumpsum. Does Mr Heerema not agree with me that it can be at least as important as how a manager deals with his staff, for example? Not everything is controlled by money, is it? It is also a question of, for example, educational leadership or a director who really wants to use all his resources to get his school leaders to move forward. These are very different aspects from financial ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u53	I believe that we share the view that we want the quality of education to be as high as possible. I find it equally difficult to say this honestly in order to put the staff aspects and the qualities of a driver along a measuring bar. I do not know if that is what Mr Van Meenen means. I still don't see how we can do that best. So if Mr Van Meenen comes up with a proposal, we will assess it on his merits. Because I believe that we need to ensure that the school has the highest possible standard of all aspects of a driver, whether financial or personnel policy, or through both and perhaps even a third aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u54	Let me try to make it a little more positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u55	Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u56	That sometimes takes me some effort, especially if it is said very easily that five in six schools would not be motivated enough to do something about their quality improvement; but still. I am glad that the VVD is putting the issue of the lump sum on the table here, especially since we have been trying for years and so far we have regularly run into a closed door, not only at the VVD. But what exactly do you ask the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u57	We have the 2019 budget in front of us here. I have tried to indicate what direction we intend to take in this budget with regard to the freedom of schools. I also said that we want to get a grip on the lumpsum. I do not need you to know this from me, too, so that we can now move forward with motions and amendments without having had a good discussion in the Chamber. I would also like to give an example from some time ago, namely from the sports legislative consultation in November 2016. The VVD said: we would like a national sports agreement; I do not know what it should look like, but I think it is important to do so. And a year and a half later, we had one. I think that this is also one of the subjects where we say: this is the picture we have of it and we have to go roughly. Soon the Chamber will speak extensively about the lumpsum. This is the bet the VVD will choose. Maybe we can find each other somewhere. But this budget debate is too early to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u58	That's not really an answer to my question. I said, "What's the question to the cabinet?" And then Mr Heerema says: in 2016 I wanted an agreement, and that is what we are going to do now, and I'm sure we're going to talk about the lumpsum in the future, and then we're going to finish that. It is the VVD that chooses in this debate on the budget for Education, and rightly so, as far as I am concerned, to raise the issue of the lump sum and to see where we can tighten it up. I welcome that, but Mr Heerema says that we need to discuss it and we are doing so now. And then my question is: what is the approach the VVD chooses in that discussion about the lumpsum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u59	I believe that I have made it very clear what the VVD course is for the lump sum; that schools that do well will have more space, more time for innovation, more development space, less inspection, less rules, and that we should help schools that are less well placed to get the result to rise above the basic level. I don't have a question for the Ministry. In this review of 2019, I would like to tell you how the VVD on this important topic is not the most important, because the lack of teachers is also very important, thinking about it and to see if we can get some adjustment in the field of the lumpsum in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u60	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u61	So I'm not asking the Minister at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u62	You may, of course, be free to do so, but first you problem the lumpsum and then I ask: what is the plan? And then you say that we need to see how we can give fewer rules to schools that are doing well and more inspection for the schools that are doing badly. Those are just things that have nothing to do with the lumpsum three times. That is simply the policy of our national education inspection. That's why I'm looking, just because I want that lump sum adjusted. Then what are we gonna do in that lump sum? As you know, I have my preferences. The SP has long had preferences in this area. I'm looking because you say you want to start a discussion, but I don't know what to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u63	I find that difficult, because I think I have made it very clear that we want to increase that grip on the lumpsum. With more quality of the school, we want to give more space. That means we need to get more insight into the lumpsum. What's it spent on? If there were any cuts in staff, which is a wish of your group, how big should they be, for example? I don't think we'll find each other there yet. In the end, we have to find out that in schools that are very similar, in similar neighbourhoods, with similar pupils and teachers, we get those differences as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u64	I'm trying to think along, too. We also have ideas about the lumpsum, but all those examples that the VVD gives now have nothing to do with the lumpsum, as the SP also said. In schools that do well, these inspection frameworks are relaxed. In schools that don't do well, a little more is being looked at. We've been working on that for years. That has nothing to do with the lumpsum. That lump sum is indeed the bag of money. You are talking for twenty minutes about the lump sum; that there should be more grip on it, but you say nothing. You say you're not gonna ask the government, no motions, yes, what are we doing here? Then you'd better keep that kind of story in a JOVD backroom or something, to talk about it in a café, but this is a budget treatment. I don't understand where it's going. You have a problem with the lumpsum, but you do not say what should happen, such as staff ear tags. You're not entirely satisfied, but you don't say why you're not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u65	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u66	I can give you examples, such as huge establishment of administrative offices, artists who get assignments to make chandeliers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u67	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u68	Come with that! What's wrong with that lump sum and what's to change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u69	In my opinion, the differences are not in the money in schools, but in the effect that schools have. As long as we have no control over the lumpsum and cannot see what that money is spent on, we cannot do anything about it. I want to go to a situation where we can reduce the differences between schools in similar situations. I have mentioned a number of things and you mention a number of things. I think that we can find each other on this in the near future, if we are going to have this whole lump sum discussion in the run-up to 2019, for which this budget is intended. We've talked about it a few times. This should also take shape next year. I understand you're dissatisfied with what the VVD's approach is like. I think it really is a different approach because the VVD has always been a supporter of the freedom of the lumpsum. I think I am one of the first to say from the VVD that we need to get a grip on that. So I think that's really a handle that you can take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u70	I shall see it as a sign of hope, but you will have to tell us a little bit more about that 'greater grip' in this budget debate. I believe that this budget debate deserves that. Then you need to be a little more specific about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u71	I told you, I don't know exactly what it looks like. I have said this before on other subjects. I refer, for example, to the Azmani plan; everyone was laughing at it and a year and a half later, most of the Chamber thought it was a good idea. I come here with the idea of getting more grip on the lumpsum. I think this is a good move to have this discussion with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u72	It's not an idea, is it? I don't understand why you're launching that as an idea. We need to get more control over the lumpsum; that is not an idea, but that is a kind of starting point or an objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u73	Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u74	Yeah, but that's an empty cry. I hear you say two things. On the one hand, you say that schools that do not do well should have higher administrative burdens. They need to report more so that they can teach less. They need to keep track of what they're spending the money on. That's how they can start teaching less. If I've learned one thing as a director of a large school community, it's that they've wasted a lot of time on this kind of thing. You want to increase again in bad schools that are already struggling and which are less performing. If you would propose to provide support to certain schools, as also happened with that board in Rotterdam, in the sense that you have a team of experienced people with different backgrounds, weak or very weak schools supporting and coaching them to a different level, then you have me, but you now make a kind of chocolate from which I don't come out. If you say we need to get a grip on the lumpsum and that's why bad schools need to be checked more, then I've lost it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u75	It's not just checking. I have indicated the importance of helping to achieve a higher level than the basic level. It is not just weak and very weak, it is the basic level which apparently five out of six schools agree to. I'm looking for how as a Chamber, as a government, we can minimize those differences between schools. As I have already said in previous parts of the debate, I do not have the appropriate answer to that right away, but it is a look ahead to 2019 to get the grip on the lumpsum to minimize the differences as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u76	In support of the observation the following. In the State of Education, it has been reported for 15 to 20 years that education in the Netherlands is declining on average, especially in relation to the countries around us. This concerns mathematics and mathematics in particular, and now there is also a report on reading performance. So I'll share what you see. I would like to think about what appropriate measures are, but if you come up with the idea that we need to get more control over the lumpsum, then I just don't understand. But I'd be happy to wait for your further argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u77	Okay. Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, the Chamber has expressed its views on appropriate education on several occasions. In line with freedom and responsibility, but not without commitment, and leading to more quality, I would like to ask the Minister what progress has been made in this regard. I believe that the Minister does not need any motions on this subject to make improvements to the appropriate education. Different groups have very different ideas about what needs to be improved. For the VVD this means that we have to accept that regular education is not always the best place for a student and that we need to be able to act quickly and decisively if necessary with sufficient places in special education and a shorter transition time. Appropriate education must be available for every student who needs it, not only for those who are lagging behind, but also for talented children who need more and are not sufficiently challenged and supervised. Mr. Chairman. The VVD would like to ask specific attention for children who are severely multiplely limited. It is about a clear number of children who do not grow or hardly grow in number. We also have a limited number of schools for this particular group of children and we know what the funding per pupil is about. Then scraping together that money, which parents, schools and institutions spend a lot of time on, should be easier to arrange than it is now? I really understand the bottleneck of care and education. But since it's such a clear group, shouldn't a solution be possible? Mr. Chairman. Last year, during the budget debate, I asked about the possibilities for more talented students to use the dance and music scheme or the Loot scheme for top sport. An evaluation would be carried out, and I recall that you would then come forward with a proposal. We are a year away, and I would really like to know how far you are with this evaluation and your proposal. Our stakes are next. Any pupil entitled to benefit from this scheme does not have to make concessions in terms of the quality of his or her education and can therefore choose the most appropriate school using the DAMU or Loot facilities. We want every school to have the freedom to offer these facilities. This allows them to choose the responsibility of helping these special students to get the best out of themselves. Mr President, I am waiting for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u78	Thanks for bringing up the VVD on appropriate education. I heard Mr Heerema say that the Minister does not need any motions, but things need to be improved and things need to be changed, especially for children with severe multiple restrictions. What exactly should these children improve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u79	This is a very clear group of children. We understand that these are certain restrictions, which simply do not occur very much in terms of the percentage of the population, making them a very clear group. The group does not grow or hardly grow. We know what it takes around a year to get this group to enjoy the education they need. There is a problem with care and education, because they are different regulations. But you have that pot of money that's meant for these kids. Then why do parents, pupils and institutions have to scrape into partnerships to get it all together? I feel like it could be a lot easier. And my question to the Minister is: isn't this easier to settle? Simply put: could you not share the amount you have spent on average over the past ten years for this group of children simply because of the number of children and directly transfer them? I don't know if it can be that simple, but why are we rigging everything up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u80	I am very pleased with these words from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u81	Good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u82	I will make a proposal in my contribution on how we can help these children better, hopefully, so I am very pleased with these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u83	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the gift. In fact, the above also applies to highly gifted pupils. There are many initiatives to provide the best possible education for highly gifted pupils: sometimes in regular classes in mainstream schools, sometimes via plus classes, sometimes through special schools, and there are initiatives that are at the border of care and education. The VVD wants more room for highly gifted students, and money is available from our coalition agreement. Is the Minister prepared to use this extra money in such a way that we pool the knowledge that is available about high-genius so that we can get structural solutions? What works and what doesn't? We feel that we are doing a little bit too much bite right now. There are international organisations like Mensa, with a lot of experience. Are these organisations also consulted? And what can we learn from other countries? Mr. Chairman. When we talk about quality, about a diploma of value, about opportunities for a job and so can take care of yourself, I worry about one group of students. This concerns the pupils attending practical education. I am not talking about their teachers doing fantastic work, or about the companies where they are allowed to work internships, or about the quality of the professional certificates they get, or about the protected environment where they can just be themselves. No, I'm talking purely about the paper they come from school with; or rather, with which they don't come from school. They are children who are very good at simple construction jobs, or perhaps in some more difficult construction jobs, or in kitchen work or in care care in a nursing home. But these students don't get a diploma. They can only get professional certificates. As a result, they are less likely to enter the labour market. That stings. Not only do I heartily give these children the proud feeling of graduating, with a graduation ceremony in which the whole family can attend, but I also think that the qualities these children have should be expressed in the form of a diploma. Is the Minister prepared to examine the possibilities of giving, for example, a collection of professional certificates a role in a diploma with value for practical education? Mr. Chairman. We have thrown a number of stones into the pond, but that probably doesn't get us there yet. The lumpsum discussion is interesting, Curriculum.now is coming, but I doubt if those are the solutions to the problems in education. It's not about shifting a few percent of the lump sum or an hour less of this or an hour less of that, the question is whether our current education system fits the demand of the future. Is that building we're going into and ever coming out of, now the very best way to prepare children for a social career and also makes them a bit of a pleasant person? These questions will not be answered in this budget. That takes more than a little more here and a little less there. This calls for a fundamental discussion, for example at the lumpsum. We want to feed them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u84	That heartbreaking story about those practice schools... I think we've been working on that for a long time. I do not have it ready at the moment, but we are already very much in the process of collecting vocational certificates into a diploma for practical education. I think it's already taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u85	My image is different. We have carried out a number of work visits to practical education. That is precisely what it showed us that we are so keen to offer this diploma for practical education. It is purely an example, a proposal and a question that comes from practice, from the work visits I have made in recent times. So if we are going to work on it, and I would like to hear it from the Minister, then at least we are a good step further. That'd be great. If that is not the case, then I call on you to make sure that it is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u86	I would like to come back to the severely limited children. I do not quite understand what Mr Heerema is trying to do. I believe that we have included a very clear text on this in the coalition agreement. It prescribes exactly what he wants, and whatever I want, which I'm happy with. I think the Cabinet is working that out. What exactly is the addition that is taking place here in this debate? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u87	During all kinds of work visits, which I think you do at schools for children with an EMB, you will notice how complex the situation is for these schools and for these children. This is particularly at the heart of concern and education. My appeal to the Minister is to instead look at how it can all be understood within the existing rules, perhaps to look more broadly at how to arrange it for these children in a simple way. For example, I suggested the following idea: if you look at the funding for the last ten years, and you would take that into account in terms of the number of students, would it not be easier to transfer it one-on-one without all the institutions having to do all these calls, questions and applications? I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is perhaps too simplistic. It's possible. Perhaps there are also opportunities to arrange it very easily for those children in this way. I think we're all a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u88	Indeed, I have been at these schools for many years. Others have done the same. That has led, among other things, to the fact that exactly that passage has been incorporated into the coalition agreement. That's what it says. It is not yet being worked out, but what exactly is the desired answer for Mr Heerema? I take it that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs are also playing a role in this area. What does the Minister have to say to reassure Mr Heerema? Should he say, guys, stop thinking, I'm out, we're done? I try sometimes, but I don't think that works. Shouldn't we just work out the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u89	I think it is. And that is what we are doing on this subject. As well as indicating in my term that money will be available for teachers, for the reduction of working pressure, whatever is in the coalition agreement, I shall also give a hand-in-hand to the Minister on this point. I'll tell you how we stand in it. It stands for this part of the coalition agreement, and I give an additional description of how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u90	There is, however, one more thing about practical education. Of course, it's nice when people get a professional certificate. Maybe I can point out the following. I was visiting a school in The Hague a few years ago. I was touched that a teacher said that we didn't succeed until three years after he left here, the student had another job. So that means that for three years, after they're out of practice education, they're still being guided. Is that something we can facilitate, so they get a little coached or have to come back occasionally? It really touched me that the students were just not able to get a basic theoretical degree. This was a very nice way to guide them further. If you give them a trade certificate and let them go, you'll lose them. Then they've lost their structure too. Is it an idea to be able to accompany them for a longer time and to take something out of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u91	I have noticed that this is being dealt with differently in the different schools of practice. When I was in Haarlem, it was said very clearly: "When the students are at school, we always give them room to come back once a week, for example, to tell them how things are and where we can help them. They can tell if they still have the job. If they don't have that job anymore, we'll see if we can help them find another job with the network we have." I think schools deal with that differently. I am in favour of schools doing so; let me at least say that. It is a vulnerable group of people who are often very loyal once they have found a place with an employer and get better and better at what they do. If we can provide extra help and guidance in this way, that's very good. I can tell that schools are already doing that. Above all, we must insist that they continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u92	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u93	This is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil... Mr. Kwint is now sprinting to the interrupting microphone. Easy, Mr. Kwint! You have a burning question, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u95	Yeah, and surprise. If there was one subject that I was absolutely convinced Mr Heerema would argue for in this budget debate, then it is movement education. And I haven't heard from him about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u96	Then the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u97	Let me make my question a little more specific. For example, what does Mr Heerema think of the proposal that I made with my colleague, Mr Van Nispen, to remove the Primark premium and finally free up the money to get the professors to work in primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u98	The SP, through you and your colleague, has put forward a proposal to raise 32.2 million and transfer it to OCW to start, if I understand your amendment correctly. That wouldn't cover by far what you need for those three hours for a professional teacher. In my opinion, both of us are aiming for more teachers of movement education in primary education from group 1. We will soon have a legal review of the proposal submitted by the SP, in which we will talk extensively about movement education. My commitment was actually to keep the entire treatise on movement education in the legal treatment announced by the SP and what we are going to talk about next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u99	If Mr Heerema's main objection to this amendment is that it is not enough money, then I suggest that we take a look today to see if we can come up with alternative cover. As far as I am concerned, we can delete that whole premium, because the Primarks of this world are not really shy of income. There is a concrete proposal here that we can make a start on, in accordance with the Mulier Institute's assessment of how long it will take for you to realize it in all schools. We have adjusted the amount accordingly. Then I hope that... Well, I hope Mr. Heerema doesn't have better objections than "it's too little money," because then we'll find each other. What is the reason he says that we cannot start with this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u100	That is simply pre-empting the discussion about the SP bill that we're going to have somewhere this year. It would mean that we now allocate money to your bill, while that bill has not yet been dealt with in this Chamber. I object to that, because I think that is the wrong order. So let's deal with that bill sometime next year. If we accept that, then we must find out what money is available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u101	Thus, Mr Heerema has been pleading for more professors in primary education. Then there is a bill that will be dealt with shortly. Then there is an amendment to take an advance in advance: at least let us start with it. And now the objection is that it's too soon. For years you have said that there should be more teachers in primary education. Now there is a proposal with cover and all this is totally neat; the Legislative Bureau has done its best, in the late hours and so on, and then you say it is too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u102	Because I don't know what the outcome of the legal treatment we're going to have next year. What if we allocate the money now and the law doesn't make it? Then we've allocated unnecessary money. Then we broke something we might want. I don't want to take that advance now. I am very much in favour of vocational teachers in primary education from group 1 to group 8, as many as two or three hours a week, to ensure that we increase that quality in primary education. We are going to discuss this in detail next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u104	It is not true what Mr Heerema says. An amendment is about legislation. Even if Mr Van Nispen's own-initiative proposal fails, I would like to say to Mr Heerema that he himself can exert a reasonable influence on it. That money has not become useless at once when there is no initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u105	I'm looking at it differently. I don't think we should do it that way. That's my last contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a confession: when I started as an educational spokesperson, I had a blind spot for the MBO. My eyes are open during the many visits and the many conversations I have had with MBO students. Recently I visited the EuroSkills competition in Budapest together with the colleagues El Yassini of the VVD, Van der Molen of the CDA and Beertem of the PVV. Dutch MBO students showed their knowledge and skills at international top level. Mr. Chairman. Over the past year and a half, I have learned what creativity and intellectual strength is needed as a beautician to do a treatment that focuses on the skin type of a customer, to create a beautiful garden as a gardener, to ensure as an electrotechnician that everything around us works while we are debating in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. My blind spot was absolutely due to me, but certainly also to the wider social blind spot in our country over the MBO. In 2013, the ESC concluded that the valuation for secondary vocational education was lagging behind, that valuation had been discussed for years, but that little was done about it. The ESC was very right, because appreciation starts with recognition. This minister has taken an important first step by adopting the GroenLinks proposal and arranging for MBOs to officially name students from next year instead of participants, as is currently the case. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is now time for the next step. Mbo-students become students and this includes a graduation title. Why does a graduate historian have the right to the title of master or doctor, while a graduate chemical-physical analyst is sent home with a piece of paper with only "level 4" on it? Appreciation begins with recognition and I therefore hope that we, as a parliament, will arrange graduation titles in consultation with the whole field. My group very much welcomes the Minister's positive response to our proposal. We're looking forward to how she's gonna work it out with the whole field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u108	There is a laugh in the gallery, but that is not right, because Mr Özdil is here openly expressing his appreciation for boys and girls who become professionals or women through the MBO and who are going to work. I do not agree with you that there would be a social blind spot, because our society is full of MBOs. They'll see for themselves. I think it's often been a blind spot here, because people can be unfamiliar with it. I really like your approach...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u109	But?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u110	Very good. I would like to comment on that title. People who are highly educated often try to stack as many titles as possible. That's their thing. They think that's important, while an MBO thinks: I really don't go to school for a title; I go to that school because I can put together a fantastic closet afterwards, do the boarding on a boat or beautician. How did those students respond to your plan? I'm thinking, what do we do them a favor? They are not going to make that step to a rock because they come out after a number of years with a title.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u111	Mr Van der Molen is quite right, of course, that there has also been a blind spot in politics. That's what my point was about. Indeed, that social blind spot is not so much the workmen and women themselves. The ESC itself points out that one of the main causes of labour market shortages for skilled women and men is the low appreciation in the Netherlands for the MBO, even more so than in other countries. This was one of the conclusions of the ESC and many other research reports have shown this. Mr Van der Molen's second point is right: what about MBO students themselves? After GroenLinks launched that proposal just before the autumn recess, we had a poll conducted among 142 mbo-students, 71% of whom responded. SBS6 Hart van Nederland has surveyed 2,000 adults and young people. By the way, there you saw that people under 30 years of age were mostly positive about this proposal. But I understand Mr Van der Molen's point. That is why I ask the Minister how she intends to deal with this in talks with the whole field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u112	We as CDA fully support you in that plea for that appreciation. It is true, because I also know parents who think: my child goes to the mbo, is there something going on? You don't have to worry about that, because that's just gonna be fantastic. I agree. But I'd like to give you something. That's why we, as CDA, are critical of your proposal. In this country, you're not just someone when you can put something before or behind your name. You're mostly someone because you can do something fantastic in society. So there's no need for a title. You're just really good at the job you've learned. That in itself, without letters before or after your name, is worth our appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u113	Last Monday I had a whole group of MBO students from all over the country on the floor here in the House of Representatives. They all indicated exactly what colleague Van der Molen says. They are rightly very proud of what they do and can do. But at the same time they indicate that it is precisely for this reason that they find it unfair that they do not receive a title for the study they are doing. They're just studying. They study as much or little as in so-called higher education. If the CDA says "well, a title doesn't matter much," I disagree. But if it persists in that, I would say: if it does not matter so much, there is no reason not to be in favour of my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u115	Mr. Chairman. In general, I would like to thank this minister and also this cabinet, because they are really moving forward on the recognition of MBO students. On behalf of my group all the compliments to this D66 minister for her heart for the MBO. But on the following two points, my group is less satisfied, firstly the lump sum discount, which is a good word for additional cuts in higher education. All kinds of studies show that no higher education system in the world works as efficiently and efficiently as that of our country. In ordinary human language: we are already in the Netherlands for a dime in the first grade. The big question is: at the expense of what? What is the human price we pay by being the most for a dime in the world? Some examples: 78% of the scientific staff work in the evenings and weekends in our country. 63% have physical or mental complaints due to high workload. Overstretchedness and burn-outs among students, teachers and PhD students are increasing hand-to-hand. Companies are jumping for technical staff, but most technical universities have to stop students because of lagging funding. And so on and so on. Mr. Chairman. The rack's really out now. And what does this cabinet do? What does this D66 minister do? She wants higher education to sit in first grade for a nickel. GroenLinks calls on the Minister to listen to her own educational institutions, to the student unions and also to teachers and scientists from, among other things, WoinAction, and at least to delete this lump sum discount, a cut of €19.5 million. GroenLinks has tabled an amendment, co-signed by the PvdA and the SP, to settle this. We very much hope for broad support for this in the Chamber. Mr President, higher numbers of pupils and students than estimated are going to lead to new reductions in education, because ministers have to cover setbacks within their own budget. That is why we fear new reductions in efficiency when forecasts are again different. I ask the Minister whether she can guarantee that under her regime new discounts due to higher numbers of pupils and students will not be available in the future. Finally, Mr President. This cabinet wants to raise interest on student loans. I've read the bill 20 times, looking for a reason, a purpose, a justification. The only argument Rutte III uses is the following. I am now quoting from the bill of law. "It is desirable to make a change in the interest rate rate for the higher education loan for the sake of the sustainability of public finances." In ordinary people's language, this cabinet says, "We're going to milk students." Many groups then asked written questions and there was a written debate to ask for the basis of that one argument, namely the sustainability of public finances. And there wasn't any evidence, because there isn't one. The Minister himself writes: "The government does not believe that the study funding system is financially unsustainable. However, the government sees scope to improve the financial sustainability of the system." The system is therefore not unsustainable, but the sustainability needs to be improved. That's weird. And, the Minister admits, "There are no findings from independent parties to this." Mr President, all this is bad enough, but this proposal also undermines the aims of the loan system. Socially, fairly and affordable, remember, I ask the Minister through the President. Well, there's nothing social about higher interest rates for student loans. Moreover, no party in its electoral programme had the intention to raise interest rates on student loans because of public finances. Not even the Christian Union. So, Mr President, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the substantive discussion on this plan is complete. The planned increase in student interest rates is not substantiated, is not democratic, and undermines the support for the loan system. That is why I would like to ask the Members of Parliament present, after the interruption of Mr Van Meenen, whom I see standing at the interrupting microphone, to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u116	Mr President, just for the record, GroenLinks is a fellow architect of the loan system. One of the arguments for the loan system was that we would no longer give a lot of money to people who do not need it, but that we would give it to the people who do. That is why, for example, the supplementary grant has been increased. And we also promised that interest rates would stay very low. Does Mr Özdil agree with me, despite the very big words he is now choosing, that the ten-year interest rate on government bonds is still extremely low? Does he agree with me that working people who have completed high education will, on average, cost a tenner a month later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u117	Mr Van Meenen from D66 says: as it now looks like, this interest rate increase will only lead to a tenner per month more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u118	Well, I'm asking you to agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u119	Well, I'd like to reverse that question. If it's really cat piss, just to sum it up, and if it doesn't work out, why don't you support me to wipe this proposal off the table? A second point is that over a period of 35 years it will be a minimum of €5,000 per student. So that's actually quite a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u120	Yeah, I know these equations. They say, did you know that on average you spend four months of your life in the bathroom? That's something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u121	We don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u122	Yeah, if you add up almost nothing for your whole life, you get a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u123	No one understands the example you just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u124	Oh, no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u125	Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u126	I see all these amazing looks around me. Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u127	If you do something a few minutes a day your whole life, that's a lot of time. If you have to pay a tenner a month, it's just a tenner a month. But the words Mr Özdil chooses here suggest something and contribute to the creation of resistance to study. That's what I'm worried about, because that's exactly what we didn't want to do. So I ask Mr Özdil to really moderate his tone. I'm not happy about that raise either. I wish I hadn't seen that one either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u128	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u129	I'm very honest with you about that. I'm against anything that means a deterioration, and this is a deterioration. Let there be no misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u130	So you actually agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u131	...but it's a marginal deterioration. I beg your pardon? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u132	So you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u133	Yeah, if you're gonna come up with over 200 million dollars to clean this up, I'm gonna be your husband. I wonder how you're gonna do that. But that's not my problem, Mr. Chairman. For the clarity...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u134	But what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u135	Mr Özdil chooses very big words here and I ask him not to, because this is precisely why those vulnerable groups, which he is just about to give titles... That's all very nice. I wish I'd thought of it myself. That's fine, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u136	Clear, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u137	... those are the people who are shocked by Mr Özdil's words, while when they do that higher education, it costs them a tenner a month later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u138	Mr Van Meenen, Mr Özdil has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u139	I will take it as a compliment that Mr Van Meenen here suggests that my words deter students and potential students. What are the facts? The facts are that, from the outset, since this proposal for an increase in student loans became public, all student unions have called on the door. They said 'we are afraid of that proposal', the proposal which Mr Van Meenen has signed up for. So thank you for the compliment, but I don't think it's because of my words, but because of this bad, antisocial proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u140	They are shocked by this proposal because its consequences, which are marginal consequences, are not highlighted, not even by Mr Özdil. I'm asking him to do that. He's screening the fact that this wasn't in any election program. No, I didn't. But half the tuition fee was also not included in any election programme. Is he against that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u141	I do not understand this from colleague Van Meenen. When the Millions note came out last year, GroenLinks was perhaps the first party to see the cigar out of its own box. The halving of tuition fees in the first year, which Mr Van Meenen is talking about, should give students 175 million euros in structural terms. In the long term, the increase in student loans should provide EUR 225 million in structural terms in 2060. We said this is a cigar from our own box. Mr Van Meenen, the minister and all the coalition parties, except Mr Bruins, who was honest, all said "no, the two have nothing to do with each other; you cannot link them to each other." But you're gonna do it anyway. So, what is it? Is it or is it not a cigar from your own box?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u142	No, I am not linking them to the way Mr Özdil does. Mr Özdil says "this is a bad plan; it was not in any election programme." That seems to be very important here these days. You can only do things like...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u143	Democracy is important. You should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u144	I haven't read the titles for the MBO in any election program either, so it's a bad plan and we should never do it. That's not how it works, is it? I say: just like this was not in every election programme, there was no halving of tuition fees in every election programme. So my question is: is Mr Özdil against that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u145	I do not agree with Mr Van Meenen's position. In many election programmes, the appreciation for the MBO is very explicit and has been mentioned for a long time. One of the effects of this appreciation is, as far as we are concerned, titulature. A reduction in tuition fees was included in a lot of election programmes, including ours. So it's not true what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u146	I am also in favour of very low costs for the loan system, but I would like to ask the following question. You indicate that national trade unions et cetera, all these groups, say that it is not a good idea and that we should not do it. But it was your own youth club, DWARS, who, when your political leader was negotiating, indicated: we shouldn't want this, because we don't know what to pay later. You didn't listen then either, so GroenLinks has a little butter on his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u147	In my opinion, Mr Azarkan does not mean last year but much earlier, when the study advance system became...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u148	2014. In 2014 you have been one of the tolerant partners to negotiate against the advice of your own youth club. You could say that these clubs know best but are often not allowed to talk. Then we will decide here in The Hague. Your political leader decided it would be different. They also indicated that we do not know what the interest charges will be in the future. You're actually a bit screwed in the suit!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u149	The study advance system, i.e. the loan system, was introduced at the time to make the system fairer and affordable and to keep it social. One of these measures is that supplementary grant. It went up thanks to us. That's still a gift. Only then, as GroenLinks, we have constantly, always, every time the Rutte cabinet tried to undermine the social aspects of these agreements, made proposals to improve them, to achieve those goals. We have not always achieved a majority for this. That is why my point now is that if you also increase interest rates, it will disappear under the loan system. I am fighting for that social aspect that we agreed on at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u150	But that shouldn't be a surprise, because you then made four demands to be able to compete, to tolerate. You have given that up again, because one of the demands was indeed about affordability. Another demand was about higher quality. And now the president of the dome of universities says: we don't see that quality impulse at all. So at that point, too, you will not get what you agreed to, while others say: don't do that! So you didn't listen at the time. I support your plea to keep those costs low for students, to clarify, but you were there and you've been a little bit in the suit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u151	Mr Azarkan's last point is not correct. We made quality agreements at that time. We have agreed on pre-investment for this generation of students who have not yet been able to enjoy the money released by the abolition of the basic grant. Mr Azarkan is right, however, that last year it appeared that these pre-investments were not made. The General Court was very clear about that. At that time, I had hard debates here with other colleagues, including the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u152	But you do know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u153	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u154	On two points, the cabinet does not keep its word because it is convenient, but once again, that cannot be a surprise. You're not really needed for a majority anymore. So we can now try to fix something afterwards, but you could have prevented it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u155	I'm a little less cynical than my colleague Azarkan. I normally assume that when you make agreements, those agreements will be kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u156	I will resist the temptation to torment Mr Özdil with the consequences of Jesse Klaver's loan system. I will go into the words of Mr Van Meenen. I found it very curious that he accuses Mr Özdil here by saying: you discourage people from studying with those words. But if you want to discourage people from going to college, you have to make it more expensive. To say to those who point that out, "Yes, but you are discouraging people by pointing that out" is really the opposite world. The last thing I would like to ask Mr Özdil is whether he agrees with me that asking for cover for a proposal that is to generate money in 2060 is quite absurd because you cannot have any idea about the revenue in 2060. Perhaps Mr Özdil could refer to a tax on nuclear fusion or on space tourism. Or maybe we can all pay a little more if we go through flooded Amsterdam by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u157	Mr Futselaar points out what Rutte III thinks is the purpose of this increase in interest rates. By 2060 it should yield 225 million in structural terms. Mr Futselaar asked very good questions about this in the written consultation. I'm not very good at math, but if I remember correctly, he asked: what is that calculated from 2018, in the same period? Have we been able to predict that at that time? I do not agree with Mr Futselaar that this whole thing of 2060 knowing how much it will yield is quite absurd. I'd say it's incredibly absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u158	Mr. Van Meenen, have you forgotten a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u159	No, Mr. Chairman, a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u160	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u161	I got carried away thinking that the increase in interest rates wasn't in the election programs. That is true, but according to Keuzes in Map it is in the programmes of two coalition parties. At the CDA there is an increase in the five- to ten-year interest rate and in the Christian Union from the five- to the fifteen-year interest rate. So you're gonna have to read those election programs a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u162	Then you've made your point, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u163	I'd like to respond to that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen should read the election programmes better, because I said earlier in my speech: no election programme says 'for this reason'. I mean the reason given by the cabinet, namely public finances. The explanatory statement says literally: "The purpose of the interest rate increase is not to counter excessive borrowing. The aim is to improve the sustainability of public finances." On the other hand, the ChristianUnion Party programme says: "It is undesirable that young people enter the labour market after their studies with a build-up of debt. That is why we are going to increase interest." That's a completely different reason. The government says that's not why we're doing it. So I'd say read yourself the programs a little better. The explanatory statement states literally: the purpose of the interest rate increase is not to counter excessive borrowing; the aim is to improve the sustainability of public finances. On the other hand, the programme of the Christian Union says: it is undesirable for young people to enter the labour market with a build-up of debt after their studies; that is why we are going to increase interest rates. That's a completely different reason. The government says that's not why we're doing it. So I'd say you read the programs a little better yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u164	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u165	But do I have to say that if Mr Özdil had the good reason in the bill, it would have been okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u166	No, that's not my point. My point is about democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u167	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u168	As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the substantive discussion on this plan has been completed, after all written submissions, all written debates. The planned increase in student interest rates is not substantiated, is not democratic and undermines the support for the loan system. I would therefore kindly ask the Members of the House present to give collective leave under Rule 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, so that I can now, in the first instance, table a motion, co-signed by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Futselaar, Mr Beertema, Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan, to wipe this antisocial plan off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u169	In order to be able to table a motion in the first term, there must be a majority. If there isn't, you'll have to file the motion in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u170	Mr. Chairman. This strange figure must be meant to put a few more thick stripes below this point. But we're back here on Thursday, we're not voting until next week and filing in second term is actually normal. It doesn't save any time, so I wouldn't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u171	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u172	I love creativity and democracy, but I do not support Mr Özdil's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u173	The motion is a careful instrument that you use if you are not satisfied with the answer and are trying to achieve something, but in the first term I find it a strange style figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u174	Mr. Chairman. At the risk of the SGP being suspected of being involved with the coalition, it is not clear to me what the added value of filing in the first term is. So I don't support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u175	I'll support it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u176	I agree with Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u177	Mr President, we also have our support, as far as it still matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u178	It doesn't; we can count. But I would certainly like to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u179	Then you have no majority, Mr. Özdil. Has Mr Van Meenen said anything about it? Yes. He wasn't for it either. Then you save the motion for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's a shame. I'd like to ask my colleagues for leave of absence. That is permitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then we'll file the motion on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u181	Are you ready? Or are you finishing up? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u182	Mr. Chairman. I will end with an appeal to the government parties. The aims of the loan system are a fair, affordable and social system. GroenLinks still stands for these goals, but the Rutte Cabinets have taken out the social element in many ways in recent years. For example, the promises of the study advance funds have not been fulfilled, and the supplementary grant stagnates and stays rigid. The money that educational institutions receive per student continues to fall. As a result, the acceptance of the loan system in society is very low. That is why I would like to say to the government parties that, if they increase the interest rate on student loans without any justification, that support is in danger of disappearing altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u183	One final point, however, is that it is fair, social and just. I have always been concerned that there was little attention to the risk that people from poorer families would not study. That has not so much to do with the rational considerations surrounding it: you pay low interest rates, it is fairer and so on. But there is also a group of Dutch people who do not want to build debt. The CBS has calculated that 9% fewer people from lower-income families are going to study. I didn't hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u184	Mr Azarkan has a point to make. He could have heard about it, because we have had a lot of debates on this issue. Indeed, many studies show that first-generation students, even regardless of ethnic origin, are increasingly facing obstacles in flow, especially from MBO to HBO. But I would like to repeat what I said to Mr Azarkan once again. The agreement we made at the time was also intended to benefit this group of students and people. That is why the supplementary scholarship remained a grant, a gift. It hasn't gotten as high as we'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u185	No, but then we understand each other. I understand the search for another system that is fair and socially just. That is a good intention, but we also know that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Sometimes it really doesn't work out that way. In this case, I find it very acidifying that this inequality is being increased, in particular, because of the lower social classes and poorer families who are going to study 9% less. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u186	It is a very valuable saying: the road to hell is paved with good intentions. That's what I agree with. I just don't think there's a saying that says the road to hell is paved with good agreements. Again, I'm a little less cynical than you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u187	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My contribution will be mainly on primary and secondary education. "The Netherlands is on the verge of a dramatic quantitative shortage of high-quality teachers. The deficit was predictable. Many initiatives have been taken over the past 15 years to reverse the trend. I'm afraid that didn't work out." This quote is striking for the current state of affairs, but it actually comes from the report LeerKracht!, that Alexander Rinnooy Kan wrote in 2007. I was also talking about this report last year. The opinions were topical at the time, and they still are. Also the preface of then Minister of Education Plasterk in the action plan could have been written by the current education ministers. I quote: "With the threatening shortage of teachers, we are facing a huge problem. That is why it is important that we take immediate action. We don't have a day to lose." We didn't lose a day, Mr. Chairman, we lost 11 years. The lack of teachers didn't drop out of the sky for a while. We saw it coming from miles away and we have been warned enough about it by Alexander Rinnooy Kan and by various trade unions and teachers. I welcome the investments made by this cabinet, but GroenLinks also believes that there is not enough in the coalition agreement and that colleagues here too often refer to the coalition agreement to do nothing extra, which is so badly needed. Almost all opposition proposals are voted down because the coalition too often expects confetti and applause. For example, our proposals to close the pay gap, to tackle the workload or to make agreements on educational money leaking away to headhunters and temporary employment agencies. I find that annoying, but the real loser is, of course, education itself, although lately it is also often the case that coalition spokesmen vote against our plans first and then, after a while, make their own proposal that is suspiciously similar. Of course, that is all right, and I am glad that it will be settled, but it will slow things down. Mr President, it is important to recruit and retain more teachers. That's why I've been hard on putting in the silent reserve before. If we can only get some of those people back in education, an important step has been taken. For example, there are already 31,000 people with a right to work in primary education. If we add MBO and secondary education to that, we will reach out to a number of 51,000 people, people who all have a degree and could be in front of the classroom. Basically, two thirds say they'd like to go back to class. If we could get some of those people back, it would solve the shortage of teachers in one go. I would like to ask the Minister what his specific short-term plans are to address, write and see if some of them are going back into education. Then people who, after a career, go elsewhere into education, the side-instromers. More and more schools are using the funding for side-intromers. Schools can apply for up to €20,000 and that amount can be used to guide and train someone. This subsidy now applies to primary, secondary and MBO education. We've talked about this before in the Chamber. I would like to propose that this grant be used for janitors as well. They can relieve teachers by taking over practical matters. Today we have sent an amendment to the Chamber proposing to release and deploy 2 million for this side-inflow grant for concierges. If we were to comply with the current regime, at least 100 schools would be able to use it. I wonder whether the Minister would like to respond and whether he could take stock of whether there is sufficient training for janitors. For example, schools that want a few extra hands can apply and we can also do something about the enormous workload in education. It is also a job with which we might also be able to help people with a distance from the labour market, for example a man or woman who has worked in construction, is over 50 years old and has a broken back, but who is very handy and could therefore help in schools. It also seems to us a good way for the cabinet to keep the now withdrawn promise to help 25,000 people with disabilities to get a job. In short, profit for everyone. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Then the appropriate education, because especially the students who need the most attention, are the victims of overcrowded classes and teachers with a burn-out. We also know that many teachers see appropriate education as one of the reasons for the high workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u189	Let's get back to the part about the teacher shortage. Mrs Westerveld again mentions a large number of new ideas to seduce people into education. They all sound very sympathetic. Of course, we still have to wait and see how that can be done. She did say something interesting. Mr. Rinnooy Kan, by the way, not a very big friend of mine and of my party, has of course already put the finger on the sore spot at that time. I have indicated in my contribution what I believe are the reasons why these people have run away from education screaming. It was precisely at that time that those scale increases came, that the men in suits, the ties, came into the schools and went to tell them how it was all supposed to be: that all those teachers were out of date and that they were "what do you call it"? Progress managers and coaches had to become. Does Mrs Westerveld agree with me that this was indeed the watershed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u190	I do use a slightly different word than Mr Beertema, but I can partly agree with him in his speech, in which he says that we have actually taken the course from the teacher and that we have actually ensured that the teacher is no longer someone who decides for himself what is done in the classroom and who teaches in the classroom. To a large extent, we have removed responsibility and placed it on drivers. That also gave rise to the scaling-up. I share that criticism with Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u191	I love that very much, but for example those terrible innovators of curriculum.Now are all the same people from the second phase. It's always the usual suspects: those are the men in suits or women in suits and on pumps. It's always the same people who come back up. I would like to ask Mrs Westerveld: do you agree that it is really being looked at in order to throw that out and simply restore the teacher by a method of direct instruction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u192	I think that step is taken very quickly, because it is precisely at curriculum.now that teachers and teacher teams are being set up to look at a new curriculum. They're not done yet. They're on their way. I know Mr Beertema's criticism and there are more people in the Chamber with the same or similar criticism, but I think it is very early to say that you are on the road for a while and we are stopping that development. So I do not agree with Mr Beertema that it is those same men in suits and women on pumps who organize this. I think curriculum.now is an example of people from education themselves who are thinking about it with each other and we still need to see what the outcomes are. I am not positive about this in advance, because I do not know the results yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u193	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u194	I predict, Mrs Westerveld, that this will be the same tribal struggle we see in education with every project. It's not gonna work, it's gonna bleed to death, and a lot of energy and a lot of money have been lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u195	I understand Mr Beertema's remark, but if we have the outcome, we will certainly look at it critically. I'm not going to judge that in advance. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed in appropriate education. I indicated that many teachers see appropriate education as one of the reasons for the high workload. I ask the Ministers whether it has nothing to do with the government's decision to introduce an additional management layer in the introduction of appropriate education. The choice was made not to distribute the money for the care pupils directly between schools, but to set up a partnership by law. Or, in fact, 152 partnerships are divided across the country. They all have their own administration, their own office and their own supervisory board. Yesterday it became clear that these partnerships now have 238 million on the table. This was demonstrated by a study carried out by the General Education Association. That's 238 million that should go to children and not to a bank account. I would like to ask the Minister how the bank account of the partnerships can be increased, but also, for example, the number of homeowners. And what is the Minister going to do to make sure that this money goes to the classes, to the children and to the teachers, in short, to the people who need it and who work in education? Mr. Chairman. The people working for the partnership are undoubtedly people with a heart for education. But I would like to ask the Minister what would happen if we left it to schools themselves to choose how they want to work together. We will at least remove a lot of compulsory bureaucracy and release schools in how they want to ensure that children receive the right education. Would the Minister consider whether the legal obligation to have a partnership can be removed? Would he like to take part in the debate on what would happen if we moved away from the partnerships? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we need to do more to help vulnerable children. GroenLinks has already called for a debate with the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health, because there is too much going wrong in practice. Children with an additional need for care also need education, and some children need extra care at school. I ask the Ministers why we have not yet received the letter, which has already been promised in spring. So when can we finally have a debate with both ministers and can we continue to talk about this important issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u196	I would just like to go back to the partnerships, because that went very quickly: abolishing partnerships or looking at what will happen if we no longer have them or if we should choose as schools ourselves. Does Mrs Westerveld want us to get the situation as it used to be when there were no partnerships? Or do you want something to replace it? I'm just looking, aren't I? I think it's an interesting suggestion and maybe we can find each other in it somewhere, but they have an important role to play in certain places in the Netherlands. In some places they work less well, but we do have to keep a situation where the children are being helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u197	I understand Mr Heerema's question very well. Let me make it clear that we do not want to go back to the situation of appropriate education. We welcome the starting point that children, even if they have an additional need for care or learning retardation, participate in regular classes in ordinary schools as much as possible. However, five years after the introduction of appropriate education, we see that a lot of money remains on the shelf. And so we see that, apart from school boards and domes of school boards, an additional partnership has been chosen. We believe that this may have been a mistake in designing the system as well. In some places that goes very well. That's where they're supposed to keep going. In some places in the country we also hear from people that they want to work together in a different way. We are therefore asking the Minister whether we can remove this legal obligation, which might also remove a whole lot of bureaucracy, so that we can free schools and at least ensure that a lot of governments and supervisors can be removed from education. Hopefully that will allow money to go faster to the schools themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u198	Should I imagine that existing administrations without further cooperation with others will have some of the resources available for appropriate education? Is that the shape I'm supposed to imagine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u199	I imagine we'll transfer some of the money directly to the schools. This is often done by means of a partnership. In some places they also channel the money directly to the schools. You have partnerships that have an entire agency and you have partnerships that are a bit smaller; they channel the money right through. We can imagine the money going straight to the schools. We can also imagine that cooperating school authorities say: we are looking for a way to work together, for example through the construction of a partnership. I think that's all very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u200	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u201	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the education care letter we haven't received yet. I would like to ask the Minister to look, together with his colleague for youth care, at the education of children in a youth care institution. I am in the GroenLinks Chamber also spokesperson for youth care, so I go to these institutions a lot. I hear from the children themselves that they often do not receive the right education because it is not available in the institution. I would ask the Minister to respond to that. Then I'm gonna move on to education deficits. We know that it is more challenging for teachers to teach children whose education is lagging behind. The shortage of teachers is particularly hard on schools with these students. Over the past five years, schools have received 100 million less. This cabinet says: we are investing in educational backwardness policies. That's right, 15 million. But if you take away $100 million and add another $15 million, you're not dealing with an investment, but it's still a cutdown. My question to the Minister is therefore how he can meet these schools with this student population, because the need in these schools is really high. Mr. Chairman. The education inspector points out year in, year out the inequality of opportunity in education. Deficiencies often occur in the first four years. Scientific evidence builds up that precisely the first four years are crucial for the rest of life. Teachers and neuroscientists point out the enormous development that the brain is going through during this period. That is why GroenLinks has already argued with a number of other parties for a basic provision for young children, so that all children have equal opportunities. In an earlier debate on this issue, the Minister transferred responsibility to municipalities. The minister said that they can decide the target group themselves and that municipalities can take measures to counter segregation. But when we look at the facts, we see that in large municipalities with many children at risk of an educational disadvantage, the preschools are drained. If we look at Amsterdam and Rotterdam, for example, we see that things are not going well there. Who's the one here to ensure equal opportunities for every child? That's this minister, isn't it? Moreover, we also hear that government policy often gets in the way of municipalities. According to the current law, a municipal allowance for pre-school education for working parents is not possible, even if those working parents have low income. Municipalities wishing to do so cannot therefore take appropriate measures in all cases. I would like to ask the Minister to make a legislative amendment possible with his colleague from SZW, so that municipalities can really work to counter the division. I saw that about 15 minutes before this debate began we were given the answers to our written questions, but unfortunately I have not yet been able to read them. Mr President, I am about to close. I still have a few shorter points. For example, we regularly receive messages from organisations that ask for subsidies because they do useful things. Every time I think, you're right, and you could get a grant. But I think it's wise to prevent clubs that happen to find us from getting a pot of money and others don't. When I look at the budget and policy, I do not make much of it. I would like to ask the Ministers if they could tell us a little more about the policy. Is there an overview of which organisations receive funding and on which these amounts are based? Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my colleague, Mr Özütok, I would also like to ask a few questions about emancipation policy because it is also in the portfolio of the Minister for Education. It is striking that there is little diversity in education in, for example, governance and supervisors. Five years ago, the VO Council issued its own report, which found that the people in front of the classroom are mostly women and the people in the boardhouse are mostly men. I would like to ask the Minister if we have a better view of what is going on with this relationship. Because I couldn't find any newer figures. Would the Minister like to carry out a broader study on diversity in education and in governance and among supervisors? Mr. Chairman. Emancipation is, of course, a much broader subject. It's about equality between women and men, but it's also about #MeToo, Ihbti acceptance and equal rights despite your sexual preference or your sex. Almost all parties in the Lower House have signed the Rainbow Voicebus agreement. But with the performance it doesn't seem to be getting any better. GroenLinks would like to know the state of play by subject from the ballot box agreement. When will the Minister send the necessary legislative proposals to the Chamber? Could we get a timetable per measure? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Everyone in the Netherlands deserves equal treatment and equal opportunities. Education is the perfect place to treat children equally at an early age. Therefore, Mr Kwint and I have written an initiative law in which we arrange that children should never be excluded from school activities. It was sent to the Chamber today. But, of course, much more needs to be done. Our teachers are now working literally and figuratively to give our children every opportunity. I sincerely hope that the coalition parties too will look at the facts here and see that there is insufficient investment, that opportunities are growing and that teachers are simply burning up. And I'm still waiting for the outstretched hand of the coalition. I would like to conclude with an appeal to both ministers to visit their finance colleague and perhaps also the Prime Minister, also because we heard a few weeks ago that there is 2 billion to be distributed. I would ask the Ministers to do their utmost to ensure that education is communicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u202	Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks asks us to stick to the facts. I have a state in front of me that says that the starting salary L10 in primary education since 1 September 2018 is €2.563. The starting salary in secondary education, LB, is €2,662. That is a gross difference of €99. That's a fact. You called that a "gap." The difference is about €45 net. Do you think that with these facts is still a gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u203	I don't have the exact figures in front of me; you do. Of course, there are different scales that you can compare in different ways. There is just a big difference between teachers' salaries in primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u204	That's mostly in the final salary. The starting salary, I think, is either modular or upper-mode. That's actually just good. At L11 it is €2,639. LC in vo is €2,679. That's a gross difference of only €40. So I find it a little difficult for you to keep calling this a 'gap'. I did sympathize, for example, with my colleague from the CDA, Mr Rog, who simply calls it a difference. Because with these facts, you can't keep saying it's a gap, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u205	I shall come back to this in the second term. Then I will also get the exact figures myself, because I do not have them in front of me now. We will continue to call it a "gap" until then, because there is a difference in salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u206	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Actually, I'd like to propose that we suspend until 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u207	We will continue with the discussion of the budget Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA. I didn't limit the number of interruptions, but I hope you'll be very careful with that. Only if it's really necessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u208	Madam President. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. It is therefore very good that this cabinet invests in the position of teachers, so that our students eventually get the best education that is conceivable. We are removing unnecessary rules and controversial honking obligations. For the first two years, we're gonna cut the tuition fees for teacher training. And after years of zeroing, this cabinet invests heavily in a fair wage increase for primary education staff, with an additional investment of 270 million euros. This significantly reduces the pay gap with teachers in secondary education. As of this school year, 237 million euros have also been available to reduce the workload. The use of this money is discussed at school level, in teacher teams, together with the school management. At the end of this cabinet period, the available workload is even up to EUR 430 million, i.e. almost double the resources already deployed. Even more room for schools to decide in consultation how to reduce the workload. In some schools a janitor is chosen, others reduce the classes, appoint an educational assistant or opt for a professional gym to relieve the burden on group teachers. Also the involvement of sports clubs or sports coaches can contribute and provide more fun in moving, so that children also develop motorically healthy. The CDA welcomes the fact that the use of resources in this way leads to widely supported school policies. Teams feel like they are really responsible for the policy choices at their school. This has also been different, as with the performance box, where we have to note that many of the goals set by the government and by the PO Council have not been achieved. A new governance agreement between the government, employers and employees should be reached by 2020, in line with a motion from my hand adopted by the Chamber. Can the Minister confirm that this will happen in 2020? How does he feel about the idea, which has also been brought out by CNV Education today, of using some of the resources tied to the agreement that is now in place, for example, to improve the salary position and career paths for teachers in primary education? In order to cope with the shortage of teachers, more is needed than just a good salary and professional autonomy of teachers. It is important that we get enough influx into the pabo and teacher training courses. In the meantime, many initiatives have been developed to seduce students on havo, vwo and mbo to teachership, such as the teachnasium in Rotterdam. Can the government map these initiatives and measure their effectiveness so that we can extend good examples next school year? The CDA also wants structural money to be made available for side-intromers who want to retrain themselves as teachers. Fortunately, the mood for this is great and the Minister has made additional money available for next year. The CDA wants to keep the available amount at that level structurally, for example by using the structural under-exhaustment of the teacher grant for this purpose. How does the Minister view that? In order to improve quality in education and stimulate innovation and development, the CDA aims to provide the Teachers Development Fund, the LOF, which, with the disappearance of the Education Co-operation, faces an uncertain future, with security for the future. To what extent can structural funds currently included in the budget in the Education Co-operation be used for this purpose, so that innovation and development can continue to be structuralally viable in the areas of education, education and training? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet pays attention to the transition in education. The coalition agreement states that parents and students should have a choice, for example with broad and extended bridge classes, so that students for whom the selection time is too early at the age of 12 can choose at a later date. But the promised nationwide covering offer is still waiting for it at the moment. In fact, we have to note that the proposed new funding system for secondary education is negative for schools in shrinking regions and for broad school communities. Where are the concrete plans to promote broad and extended bridge classes? There will be a thresholdless transition from vmbo to havo and from havo to vwo, but such a thresholdless transition is not now for VMBO students who are in the basic vocational or framework vocational learning pathway. If they do not have enough for their general education, they will not receive a diploma and will not be able to enter the MBO. Would it not perhaps be more challenging for these students to continue their professional skills in the MBO, on the condition that they then re-launch the missing profession? Do the rulers see an opportunity to discuss this with the VMBO and the MBO? In this context, the CDA also sees the importance of learning growing in practice. Already we know the learning path in the basic vocational learning path. Is the Minister prepared to consider giving this a place in the framework vocational learning path as well? In addition, we noticed that there are initiatives such as the Vakhavo, where students who are learning some higher education, but also want to do business with their hands, can gain practical experience. Is it possible, I ask the rulers, to encourage this further? For example, we see that in Germany you can also continue to do vocational training at a higher cognitive level. Smooth transitions are important not only for students, but also for teachers. Vocational teachers in the MBO may not, however, give the same course in secondary education after obtaining their teaching-eductic certificate. Why is there a difference? Is the Minister willing to change this? In order to prevent pupils from falling out of VMBO, we also ask for attention to Dutch language skills in primary education. Handwriting development, spelling, comprehension reading: it all runs backwards. Could it be that the widespread digitalisation in many schools is partly responsible for this? Has this been investigated? Parents now have to buy their own textbooks, because otherwise their children will no longer be able to see a tree in the digital forest. Mr. Chairman. My group is concerned that 10% of primary school pupils are still leaving education as functional illiterate. At VMBO schools, too often there is no structural reading policy. The Minister promised to come forward with a follow-up approach to low literacy in the spring. My question is whether she would also like to pay particular attention to the prevention of low-literacy in basic education. Mr. Chairman. Then citizenship. The King asked society a striking question: do we live together enough in the Netherlands and not too much side by side? Because the school is small in society, we have to acknowledge that it sometimes, as in other places in society, grinds and learners grow up in separate worlds. But school is also the place where children can learn to deal with these differences, where they learn about their rights but also about their duties. Fortunately, there are many initiatives that contribute to a secure, inclusive society. Samira Bouchibti wrote the excellent manual Why are we Dutch? It is a method that initiates citizenship and dialogue and seeks to combat polarisation and radicalisation. Many organisations work together in the Respect Pact and organise the Week of Respect next week. I myself may give guest lessons again. The CDA would like such initiatives to be brought together in a clear window so that schools can have optimal access to the available educational material and be able to carry out their citizenship mission even better. But social service can also play a role in strengthening that sense of community. Students from different levels of education who meet to volunteer for a social mission or task. Especially in schools where experience has been gained with the social internship, social service time could be rolled out easily and successfully. As it turns out, there is only one experiment or experiment of that social service assigned to a school. Do the Ministers see opportunities to encourage the realisation of social service from secondary, secondary and higher education as well? Mr President, this was my contribution. My colleague Harry van der Molen will give you further information on our views on MBO and higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u209	I'm very curious. I call Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u210	It is always good to hear that the President is at least on the edge of her chair. Mr. Chairman. In his contribution, my colleague Michel Rog has made a plea for a thresholdless transition in secondary education, and I would like to conclude with a plea to improve the link between secondary education and higher education. At present, young people with a degree in law and the profile of the economy and society or culture and society cannot pass on to technical or green education, while in the Netherlands we have a chronic shortage of technicians. When you're 21, you can take a test to get into a non-related education, but the majority of young people don't get on their 21st of the HAVO or the VWO. At that hard age, we are right to make an exception for refugee students. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that all students should be able to take a test in order to be able to enter into a non-related education and is she prepared to amend the law for that purpose? Strong cooperation between MBO and business is crucial for a good connection and for combating the shortage of teachers, which is particularly important for professionally oriented subjects in the field of technology. What can the Minister do to promote that more people choose to combine work in business and stand in front of the classroom? What problems do these people face in practice in both education and business? What opportunities does the Minister see for doing something about it himself? Mr. Chairman. There has been a great deal of work to be done on the austerity of the grant scheme in practice. Fortunately, the Chamber has virtually unanimously chosen to remove the austerity. Many MBOs have benefited from this subsidy which allows many companies to offer a work place. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are not once again entering into a discussion about cuts in the subsidy scheme. That is why, together with the VVD, we are proposing to make this scheme legally mandatory until the end of its term. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is committed to ensuring that there is sufficient education in all regions of our country. As a CDA, we have advocated that not only the start of a new training course but also the end of an MBO course, for example. This is in order to prevent a training which is necessary for the region from ending in the labour market before we have found a solution to keep it alive. My question to the Minister is therefore what is the state of play with regard to this effect. I would just like to call it technically the inverse macro-efficiency. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet invests 850 million euros net more in higher education than the previous cabinet. In September of this year, the first group of students who can benefit from the halving of tuition fees started. For example, green education seems to benefit significantly from the transition from Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Education in the coming years. All developments that we as CDA are positive about. Colleges and universities have indicated that some of the financial pressure they experience could be solved if they had the resources released by the introduction of the loan system. In a letter, the Minister indicated that he wanted to participate in this process by looking at the budget to see if it could move with money. As a CDA, we basically support that plea to bring that money forward. It's money being raised by the student. But I would like to hear from the Minister what possibilities she sees, because the OCW budget is not the most flexible when it comes to shifting amounts. As a CDA, I'm gonna put two things in the front line of that investment. First of all, the fact that higher education has not made sufficient efforts to meet the pre-investments that students have been promised in the introduction of the loan system. The Minister now refers this discussion to the administration and participation of the institutions, but as far as we are concerned, that cannot be the end of the discussion. If the Minister were to raise funds for educational institutions, students should not suffer again from the lack of pre-investment. And if there is to be a move, as far as the CDA is concerned, the money that is now reserved for the educational vouchers is also being shifted, so that students can use the money sooner, and perhaps also for the financing of a master's degree. I can imagine that these two things will be linked together: if we move in front of the educational institutions, then we will also move in front of the students who have been duped by the absence of the pre-investments. In addition, the educational institutions must take a serious look at how, for example, they manage the influx of international students. The number of international students is again increasing by 20%, and that is going to be in the papers. That's gonna have to be paid for. And if we're not careful, we'll have another story of budget cuts next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u211	I don't know how far you're going with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u212	I still have a little bit left, but I saw Mr. Van Meenen at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u213	So do I, but if it is a little bit, I would suggest that you finish your speech first. Is that a good idea? I should never ask a Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u214	You're the boss, so if you think that's a good idea, we're gonna do it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u215	I think it's a really good idea of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u216	Good. The CDA urges the Minister to quickly work on a numerus fixus on English language variants of courses, for both students from within and outside the EU. And the CDA insists that higher tuition fees for foreign students be made possible quickly. How does the Minister look at statements that we hear more and more often in HBO, namely that they are ready, like universities, to welcome more and more international students? And how are we going to finance that with each other? Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the academic year, the student organisations again drew attention to the impact of the loan system introduced by the previous cabinet. Many young people underestimate the impact of a study loan on, for example, the level of a mortgage, or on redemption amounts. As a CDA, we think it is important for students to be able to assess the impact of a loan and not to borrow too much unnecessarily. This starts with good information and clear language. Together with the SP, I call on the Minister to stop using the word "study advance." Because it's not an advance, it's a loan, and that has to be clear to everyone. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she wishes to respond to that call. Mr. Chairman. The shortage of teachers is high, and we have to do something about it in many ways. This is why it has been agreed for students in education-oriented studies that tuition fees should also be halved in their second year of study. Yet there is a group that falls between shore and ship. These are the teachers who have already acquired educational competence, but in practice find it difficult for them to get to work with that competence. We do not want these people to be lost to education, but if they want to obtain a second degree, they have to pay institutional tuition fees. Once again, as a CDA, we call for attention to this group. It should be possible for them to also receive a discount on the institution tuition fees. We could make this possible financially by aligning the halving of tuition fees for small-scale training with that of regular training courses. The first question is: does the Minister recognize this problem? And does she see any possibility of doing anything about this? Because we as CDA really think that a concession to this group of students would be a good start to do something about getting between shore and ship. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u217	Mr Van Meenen has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u218	As always. You know me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u219	That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u220	I would just like to come back to the fact that I would like to mention the funds for the study advance, for as long as that is still possible. Mr Van der Molen is linking this to the raising of vouchers. In doing so, we await the Minister's response. But wouldn't it make much more sense to link that with making the pre-investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u221	There is, of course, a lot of discussion going on about whether there is sufficient funding for universities and colleges of higher education. I note with you that, in this coalition agreement as parties, we have made fine agreements that there is a lot of extra money going to higher education. On the other hand, we hear the call from higher education that they also have a number of wishes. You pointed out in the daily newspaper that there are quite a lot of resources at least in the universities and perhaps also in the colleges, and that this money should be invested. I noted in a previous debate that the universities have really failed to deliver on these pre-investments. So at the moment when this minister would come forward with a proposal for raising these funds, there is no doubt that we are talking about calling on the institutions to make these pre-investments happen. In an earlier debate, I have successfully argued for this with a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u222	"There's talk to the CDA about that," that sounds like it's some kind of contrecoeur. That sounds like: we shouldn't bother these universities too much with the realisation of those pre-investments. Among other things, the report in the general newspaper and the research I have carried out, I shall come back to this later, shows that the institutions' reserves have increased in recent years, while you would expect them to fall because additional pre-investments would be made in the run-up to the loan system. I can only assume that the CDA is really in favour of making this a condition. It is of course fine to bring things forward, but also to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u223	I couldn't agree more. That's what we're CDA for. The only surprise I have is that I have made exactly the same plea for compensation for these pre-investments. I tabled a motion to that effect which I had to help a majority outside of D66 because D66 absolutely did not want to vote in favour. So now that you've moved our way, that's what I count as a blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u224	This calls for a response. This was about the situation in which the government was still taking responsibility for these pre-investments. I say that these institutions should still make this pre-investment. That is quite different from what you suggested at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u225	Then I note that you voted against because you did not understand the motion. I can't imagine that, because that discussion was broad here, and it was very intensive here. At that time, as a CDA, I had a spicy debate with the Minister. In fact, if we are going to raise funds, I do not think it is too much to ask to talk again about pre-investment. The fact that they didn't show up is really impossible to sell to the students. I say that as a member of a party that was against the loan system at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u226	And that's due to the institutions, not the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u227	I also appealed to the Minister at the time. Also when the loan system was introduced, the cabinet at the time said: this is part of the deal that we conclude with students for the introduction of the loan system. We were the CDA's opponent. And when I found out that there were no pre-investments, I also wanted to keep the Minister's political promise to the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u228	No, Mr. Van Meenen, you came. I call Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u229	The SP is always willing to help the CDA get a majority if they make a good proposal. It's just too bad it's so rare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u230	That you're helping us get a majority? That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u231	I was struck by Mr Van der Molen's comment on the vouchers, and above all by the possibility of bringing out the vouchers for masters. Then I thought, "Fuck, that's a good idea!" And then I thought, "Yeah, that's because it's my idea." That was in the motion I tabled in April of this year. I wonder why the CDA voted against that at the time. Didn't you understand the motion or change your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u232	No, I haven't changed my mind. I raised the same points in the debate on pre-investments as you did at the time. In other words, I said: I can only imagine that we are going to look again at student vouchers as a means of compensating for these pre-investments and their lack. So we were already on the same page. That's one. We are talking about this budget. The Minister said: I want to see if I can move with money in the course of next year. And here's what I'm gonna say. If you then free up funds in favour of institutions, you cannot sell it to students that their resources do not move forward. And then I think they could be well used to finance, for example, a master's degree. They will then immediately benefit from what they have been promised, including in the financing of their training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u233	The main difference I hear is that we are a budget later. Mr Van der Molen is right about that, but I honestly do not think it is an explanation. But I will no doubt support him if there is another proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u234	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u235	Mr Futselaar finishes his sentence walking to his place, but well. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u236	Yeah, it's called running commentary in English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u237	Yeah, something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u238	I heard Mr Van der Molen say something that I thought was: I have to ask myself whether I understood that correctly. Did he just say that it doesn't matter what profile you chose in high school but that if it's up to the CDA, you're doing some kind of Cito test? Even though you've spent years in languages, history and cultural and artistic education, you take a Cito test, and if you get one, you get to study physics? Is that what the CDA is proposing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u239	Well, at least not so automatic. If you choose a social profile and you still want to take the step towards a technical education, you also have to realize that that is quite a big step, because they do not match each other. So I could have just said: there doesn't have to be a test at all. That could have been done; I could have suggested that. I don't think that's right. You really need to see if you have everything you need to take that step. I think that is a good one; that is why I am in favour of letting go of the age limit of 21. In practice, I see the following, for example, when I am at colleges and talking about what we share with each other, namely that we would like to have a high influx of technical training or in green courses, wherever this is going. They say: we really see a lot of girls and boys getting stuck on this when we don't have to. There are actually only two options: either you do this 21-test, but then you have to wait until 21, or you're going to catch up on the vavo-route. The Vavo is not really meant for that, because that is really more second-chance education. Then I think: what could be easier to do in The Hague than to abolish such an arbitrary rule? Then we can try to break that threshold for the boys and girls who still want to take that step to technology because they only find out at a later age what they really want. I think that would be a very good measure, which is why I asked the Minister if she agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u240	But if you want to make this possible, shouldn't you rather leave it with the institutions rather than with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u241	Another measure, which we placed in the budget last year, was about the MBO. There were also pre-training requirements. We have said that they were also very hard and that this can really hinder young people. The Minister has made this a possibility in the law. At least, she intends to do so. This means that there is room for institutions to apply or not to apply them. It'll fit in your alley. I say that this is a national regulation, which the legislator has put in place in this way. If we want to do away with it, we will have to do it here in the Chamber. On behalf of the CDA, I would like the boys and girls who want to take the step towards technical training and really can do that, to be able to take that step and to let go of that arbitrary 21-year-old limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u242	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is specifically about higher education. Mr. Chairman. One of the major educational questions at this time is the funding of higher education. This is all the more underlined by the large student influx this year: 5% more than expected, mainly due to international influx. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether this extra influx, which we were confirmed last week, will lead to even more consequences for the lump sum. But it also shows the urgent need for a new funding system, because internationalisation is strongly driven by funding. Foreign students are just a earning model. There are other issues: the technical universities with their claims, the VU which has above average many second-chance students, the links and the major problems at humanities at different universities. We see where this leads in practice: protruding lecture halls and overworked lecturers and researchers. The first institutions are also beginning to indicate that they do not know whether they can meet the quality agreements that have been made in these circumstances, because they are going to use money to close holes. In this context, I would say to Mr Van Meenen that it does not help to spend the reserves of universities when parties distribute incorrect figures about the reserve. In this light, the Minister's decision to postpone the funding debate for almost a year by setting up the Van Rijn Committee is incomprehensible. The investigation has already been done and we already know the problems and possible choices. The person to make difficult choices is the minister. That's what we assigned him to do. So if you give a committee as a precondition that no extra money should be added, then you actually let someone else, someone without any democratic legitimacy, do the dirty work for you. I call that administrative cowardice. It's like sending a friend to break up with you because you don't want to bring the bad news yourself. I would therefore urge the Minister to take responsibility for himself and to come forward with a proposal for funding in the short term, as she has promised us several times over the past year. We do not have time to spend on committees until there is an opinion in April. I would also like to make it clear that the additional savings of more than 100 million are still above the Spring note. Can the Minister already make a commitment that it will end up in education? In this case, I must say 'the ministers': they can choose who is responsible. Meanwhile, internationalisation remains a problem. Universities break new records in bringing in foreign students. Despite all the good aspects of internationalisation, our institutions are almost succumbing to student numbers and the Dutch taxpayer is paying for large numbers of foreign students. In this Chamber and also in the Minister's office, there has been a drop in the awareness that there is a problem here. It's different in the field. I am also seeing more and more ambitious internationalisation programmes and English speaking at the moment, and I expect a problem there. I would like to ask the Minister whether she recognizes these signals and what she intends to do about them. Mr President, I suspect that this is a good time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u244	A very brief interruption, Mr Van Meenen, because Mr Futselaar has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u245	But he's also starting to say some really weird things, which is that I'm using the wrong numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u246	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u247	Oh, Mr Futselaar's already out. It's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u248	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u249	Look, I am surprised that Mr Futselaar is acting here as patron of the university boards and goes along with the story that it is all so very bad and that there is no extra money at all and that there is considerable savings, while hundreds of millions are arriving, there have had to be pre-investment and over the last four years Mr Futselaar will not be fighting that. In any case, reserves have risen by 400 million. I'm gonna ask him to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u250	I am very pleased with this interruption by Mr Van Meenen, because then I can go into this a little further. I'm actually mad at Mr. Van Meenen. I agree with him in general: it is very good to look critically at the reserves of universities and it is true that there are probably opportunities there for finding resources. But the moment a party starts saying "the freely disposable resources of universities are 2.8 billion" while that is demonstrably bullshit, while at best about half of them are... Yeah, one billion is something, too, but you, Mr. Van Meenen, put us at a disadvantage by yelling this kind of thing in the A.D. and on Twitter. They're totally unfounded numbers. As a result, you are simply putting us at a disadvantage in the really critical approach to these institutions. That would be my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u251	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u252	Very special to hear this from the mouth of a SP'er, because they are of course known that they will never exaggerate, that all numbers have been checked seven times, that there is a debt system and you name it all. I can talk for hours about all the bullshit I've heard here from that angle in the last few years. But that's not what I care about. I am asking a very specific question. It is a fact that the general reserves, no matter how you fill them in, whether they are stones or money, have increased by EUR 400 million. You're not fighting that either. My question is: how can that be if it is expected that these reserves will be reduced with the additional pre-investments? How does Mr Futselaar view that fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u253	In the first half of his speech, Mr Van Meenen accuses me of being correct. I'll accept that accusation. When it comes to growing reserves... Mr Van Meenen has looked at general reserves where the value of the buildings is also present. In recent years, student numbers have increased and universities have set up new buildings. So that means that group is growing. That does not mean, I repeat, that we should not take a critical look at it. For example, Utrecht University does not have 314 million in reserves as Mr Van Meenen thought, but 165 million, but I still think that is quite a lot of money. That is what we should be discussing critically with these institutions, but on the basis of facts and not by walking to the AD and saying: look how terrible this is, they are undermining the debate. The credibility, the acceptance will go away in your opinion, while you will approximately double the size of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u254	Mr President, may I comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u255	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u256	I spent two and a half days of my recess looking at a lot of university accounts. I've read a lot of accounts. I turned 16 in to the Ministry myself. I mean under a general reserve the freely expendable part. We also know destination reserves. We have facilities. We know the equity. That is generally a much larger amount than the general reserves, because that is precisely what the stones are in. That's the difference. It is difficult for you to blame me for the fact that there are universities throwing all this together and saying that this is the general reserve. But I am glad that the debate can now be held, because we agree, I understand. Whether there's 600 or 300 million left in Groningen and whether it's 400 or 165 million, we all agree that that's way too much? That is why I do not understand why Mr Futselaar is here behind the university boards who are coming to complain that they do not have enough money, with all the investments that are still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u258	I am really sad that Mr Van Meenen spent two and a half days on an investigation with numbers that are incorrect. I have not looked at 16 annual accounts; I have gone into three. Groningen is a good example. That's where you see the equity, about 600 million, and then the own reserve, about 580 million. If at that time Mr Van Meenen did not get alarm bells ringing, such as'maybe there are buildings in here', then I have to say that he is even worse at reading balances than I am. And that is an impressive achievement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u259	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u260	No, no, no, Mr. Van Meenen. I'm sorry. You've really expanded... You'll be on your own term. Carry on, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u261	I'll come and bother you in your term, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u262	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u263	Mr. Chairman. I was working on internationalization. The key to this problem lies in funding. But even if we do not adjust the funding, there are other measures that we can consider. Two months ago, I was in a tent in Groningen. That wasn't because I was celebrating the recess holiday, but because I wanted to see the temporary reception of the University of Groningen for foreign students. The British, French and Pakistani students I met in an unheated tent did not understand why Dutch universities continue to recruit as actively as the housing situation is so bad. They were right about that. How a number of student cities deal with foreign students is unacceptable. I would therefore like to propose that higher education institutions should be given a legal duty in housing foreign students, for example, by requiring that a minimum percentage of housing be guaranteed. The Minister is not about housing, but about institutions. I would like a response to that suggestion, if the Minister can stop talking to her colleague. It can no longer continue that our universities from all over the world are bringing in students, but do not want to take responsibility for housing. Then access. About the same week as the Groninger tent, I did something that I rarely do, namely express my full support for this minister's proposal. In fact, in her speech at the opening of the academic year, she had announced that she would like to set a legal ceiling for the number of points in the binding study opinion. An excellent proposal, Mr President. Okay, she had offended the institutions by not involving them in any way in advance. And a 40 point limit is extremely awkward for colleges, who often use three-point scales, but the basic idea was good. I was therefore very excited at the first meeting of the parliamentary year to ask when we could expect the legislative proposal. Two months later, the minister sent a letter stating that this plan is completely out of the question. It turned out to be a test balloon the size of the Hindenburg and about as spectacularly exploded. I would like to ask the Minister today to explain himself on this matter. Why did she come back to her proposal? The result is unrest among students, annoyance at the institutions and, frankly, grumpy with the opposition and accessibility has not helped anything. The best way to increase accessibility is, of course, financial. The best thing to do in this area in the short term is to withdraw the proposal for an increase in interest rates in the loan system. I will not go into this further, because we still have a separate debate on this to highlight the many ways in which this is a bad idea and also because it is irrelevant to the budget. This is because it is only about many years ago. But if the Minister wants to do something concrete, the proposal has to be removed. The students and students have understood this very well themselves and are going on the streets in The Hague on 24 November. Right they are, come all! The Minister has sent us a letter on various aspects of selection and accessibility. She calls this a policy letter herself, but although it is long, the letter actually contains remarkably little concrete policy. A lot is written about existing policies, about new investigations, rounds of talks, etc., but there are few concrete things. She does say exciting things about studying not just about return. I fully agree with that, but I would like to say to the Minister that it is not enough in her position to find sympathetic things; you also have to do something concrete. Specifically, I would like to mention the decentralised selection. At the beginning of this year, we adopted a motion by Mr Van Meenen to establish clear frameworks for decentralised selection. That motion was also supported by the SP. And now the Minister states that she will actually see at the end of 2019 whether its implementation is necessary. I cannot speak for Mr Van Meenen, but I do not think that is enough. The motion asked for frameworks and I would like to ask the Minister if she would simply come forward with them. Mr President, in January I had a consultation with this Minister on selection and accessibility. Not only did I have that meeting, but the whole committee. I said at that time that the Minister said good things, but that concrete proposals were not forthcoming. I quoted Thorbecke, who once said to a critical chamber, "Wait for our actions." And I suggested that the Minister judge those actions. We are almost a year away now, and I have to say that I am still waiting for the Minister's actions. And, Mr. Chairman, I'm not gonna wait forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u264	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint, also on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u265	I have one minute left for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u266	That's okay. The emotions are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u267	He's always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u268	Also in the group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u269	Sure, right there. We welcome that, too. "For many parents, a new school year means, in addition to hopeful expectations, the necessary concerns about the heavy spending. A study of the SP among 100 schools shows that the contribution can vary enormously in height. Moreover, this contribution is far from always voluntary." Remi Poppe said in 1997. And what was the solution of politics? A meeting with school boards. We've been 21 years and the cabinet is still talking to school boards. In 1997, I was 12. We're out of patience, and I think it's okay, after about 20 years. That is why Mr Westerveld and I have tabled our law today. Never again a child who sits alone in school while the rest of the class goes to Efteling. Never again a list of names at the entrance of the auditorium with names of children who are not allowed in when the rest of the sintering class or Christmas is going to celebrate. And never again the political reflex to have a friendly conversation with the schools, but just a law that regulates it. We have great confidence in the majority of schools, but a small minority has for years shown insufficient awareness of this. We are counting on all your support, because it is urgently needed. Stichting Leergeld sees parents' applications explode. The average contribution increased by almost 50% in recent years. For example, the SP and GroenLinks join forces against this exclusion in education. And that's what it takes, because education isn't always very good. Actions in primary education are still ongoing. We're the frontrunner in burnouts. The shortage of teachers forces schools to make terrible choices. Think of a four-day school week, parents who are allowed to play childcare, secondary schools where for some subjects there is hardly anyone left to find, leading to an accumulation of between hours. The level of education is declining and the separation between rich and poor is increasing. The SP said here last year: education is no longer doing what it should, education can no longer do what it should. The old emancipation engine is failing and needs a little more than just a cock. We're seeing a sneak privatisation in education. That is a movement that is politically fueled, because where the shortage of teachers is spreading, personal attention in the classroom will become less and less and parents who can afford it will increasingly resort to paid tutoring. And the other way around: where paid tutoring becomes the norm, teachers who are under great pressure will increasingly refer to this. Here in the Chamber, this is praised as "responsible parenthood." It is suggested that each school offers free tutoring, even though it is evident that this is not the case. Earlier, the Minister said that we cannot forbid individual people from buying tutoring. That's right. So we're not going to reduce the total amount either. The latter, of course, is not correct. A sevenfold increase in shadow education is not only caused by increased performance pressure, but by the fact that people see education decline and therefore hire tutoring if they can afford it. This also has its impact on regular education. Does the Minister at least agree with us that we need to reverse this trend and, above all, to reverse it? In the meantime, I was talking to Mr Heerema about children moving less and less well at school. It can simply be different, for example by getting the money from big companies that become stinking rich by not paying people decent wages. That money we can, for starters, invest in professors gymnastics for primary education. This makes a sick labour market, pupils and education healthier, because where the professional teacher comes, the workload for the rest of the staff is reduced. I hope that the Minister can embrace this proposal, because teachers and students really need this money more than international companies that, despite millions of profits, do not want to pay their staff normally. Doesn't anything good happen according to the SP? I have considered deleting this paragraph, but I would like to leave it aside, because there are certainly nice things to mention, such as the extra money for salaries, a work pressure agreement, the failed education cooperative that was sidetracked and the teachers who, partly because of the pressure agreement but of course mainly because of their own movement in which they started organizing themselves, have come into a decisive position. The profession is strengthening and that's nice. My criticism of this cabinet is therefore not that the intentions are not good, but above all that the targets are not going to be met in this way. What was the last time we received a study of the state of education in our mailbox with a positive head above the press release? I'd need that someday. While education policy-making The Netherlands has been engaged for years with a megalomaniac total curriculum review that is not coming to an end, our education is deteriorating. It had to and it would go on. Each builder can tell you that it is impossible to replace the foundation of a building if you put a floor on top of it at the same time. But that's what's happening here. The basis is rotten and there is no support, but still the cabinet is slowly building on. What are we going to judge this project on in the end? How much longer will the Minister give this project? And, perhaps most importantly, when curriculum. is finally ready, is the Minister prepared to send these proposals to the Chamber only after a comprehensive study has been carried out into the support of teachers? Because please, not another education renewal that no one was waiting for. This now has all the characteristics of one of those out of control infrastructure projects, which are three times more expensive than estimated. Why? Yeah, we've been going on for so long now, we'd better keep going. While trade unions could play an important role in the professionalization of teachers, they have lost most of their time fighting in curriculum.nu. That is why I am also proposing that these trade unions should be better supported, so that teachers in secondary education become the master of their own development and develop not only within their own school but also within a stronger trade union. What does not help is the so-called efficiency reduction, which hangs around the neck like a millstone of educational institutions. Last year, we were going to do everything we could not let that discount go at the expense of the class. We are now a year away, but the gap in the budget is not getting any smaller. In fact, it's growing. Does the Cabinet repeat that children in the classroom won't notice? I am not saying that there is no money to be raised anywhere in education, but the SP does not believe that this problem will be solved with just a discount. When I see that the cabinet intends to close previous setbacks, for example, with a discount on the training places for practical learning and the removal of summer schools, just such an initiative that should be extended to promote equal opportunities, I am not necessarily optimistic about that. About that first: over and over again, the SP has put forward proposals to prevent the practice learning scheme from being destroyed. That has inspired others to table a motion, and we are pleased about that. But we're not gonna do this again. When does the Cabinet come up with a structural vision of this arrangement? 'Cause it's really been a mess. And aren't we afraid that the summer schools will disappear if we just dump the money in the lump sum into a school? Then one of my favorite subjects in this Chamber: the climate of establishment. It is incredibly important that we attract and retain companies and that they have well-educated staff. We all benefit from this and we all pay for it. That is why my amendment to close the pay gap once and for all. This will only cost a fraction of the tax rebate that companies are about to receive, and I'm sure they'll be happy to pay it, especially after decades of discounts. When I was born, corporate tax was more than twice as high as it is now, and I'm not that old. We owe this to the teachers and the students at primary school. Is that the fault of this cabinet? No, it has been accumulated wage moderation in many Cabinets that have caused the current shortage of teachers and the pay gap. But now it's up to us to fix it. Finally, all signals are red when it comes to the opportunities offered by education. I started my contribution with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u270	You were in the middle of a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u271	Well, I took that "finally" widely, Mr. Chairman. So I think it would be a good thing if Mr Rog asked his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u272	Do you really need a lot more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u273	Another full sheet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u274	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u275	Mr Kwint of the Socialist Party talks about teacher salaries. He says it's all wrong, despite the amount of money that's come in. But how does Mr Kwint explain that the tax measures in the SP election programme make teachers fall by 0.4%? What's a teacher getting at with this story from the SP, naming it's all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u276	I think that Mr Rog did not expect such a complimentary tone from me in preparing this interruption, because I do not think I have said at all that it is all wrong. I've praised the extra money for the salaries. All I see is that there is still room to do more and that I think that this is more just than letting the money go to the highest rate of corporation tax, which has been reduced and reduced and reduced year by year. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. You're welcome to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u277	My question focused on the SP's fiscal measures. The teachers who are employed for fifteen years and earn one and a half times the standard of education can now count on the support of the SP, but in the election programme they are seen as great earners, who need to be caught, and fall by 0.4%. And if such a teacher has a partner who earns half a morale and who works a few days a week, he also loses child benefit once more. What's a teacher gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u278	Mr Rog is now shopping selectively, but I think I was quite clear: a nice wage increase has been achieved. That was badly needed, because the delay really was no longer sellable. As far as we're concerned, it's still unsellable. There is now a proposal. I would say: if Mr Rog is so concerned about it, let us look at that wording together and see if it can be accepted. But I really don't see where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u279	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u280	Finally. Mr Kwint first takes money from teachers because they earn one and a half modes, takes away the child benefit and then repairs it. What's a teacher gonna do with that? Can Mr Kwint comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u281	Yes, but since Mr Rog spent three quarters of his time preparing reading those CPB records, I'm a little surprised that he hasn't noticed that people with an income of up to €90,000 are on average making progress. I still have to meet the teacher who touches it. Some college drivers might touch that. I would like to do something about that with you, but up to €90,000 practically everyone is making progress. So I'd say those teachers should all vote for us or maybe you. If you are going to table this amendment together with me, I will recommend it to you. The signals are red when it comes to the opportunities that education offers. I started my contribution with it: children from poor and wealthy families go to school less and less often. This not only leads to an accumulation of problems and challenges in some schools. It also affects the cohesion of our society. We're not gonna fix that today. We have to be real about that, but we can get started. The SP chooses the children in schools where things are harder, so that they get a fairer chance than they get now. That is why I make two proposals. The first proposal. In some places the preschool is slowly empty, not because there is no longer a child behind, but because the law forbids municipalities from asking for their own contribution. That's awesome, isn't it? If there are any municipalities that do what we want, I believe that Tilburg is also doing what we want, and then it says in the law that that is not allowed. Can we not agree today that municipalities that are so committed to these children receive a compliment instead of messing with The Hague? We have seen that teachers disappear in schools with a lot of pupils who are lagging behind. That's where it's hardest to fill vacancies. There classes are assembled out of pure necessity. That's where we're going to go to that four-day work week, when you'd actually need six days a week of education there. You know from us that we would like to have smaller classes everywhere. But could we not start with schools with the majority of students who are lagging behind, with schools in the poorer neighbourhoods of the country, with schools that are difficult to find a teacher? Try to set the maximum around 20 or 21 per class and give schools extra money for that. Then you make teaching there a lot more attractive. Shall we take that first step today? We believe that this is a real way to tackle the equality of opportunity in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u282	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u283	Mr. Chairman. It is time again for the budget of the most important and most beautiful subject: education. I can see you shining. Education is the biggest investment this cabinet makes. This is also very sensible, especially since education is currently facing major challenges: a shortage of teachers, high workload and inequality of opportunity. But also because education is an investment in the future, which is the investment, I would say, so that everyone can be a quarter of a dime in twenty years' time, so that we can easily achieve the climate goals and by now we are also ten Ben Feringa's richer. That's a nice win. Mr. Chairman. I'm proud of what we've achieved in one year. A lot's changed, especially in elementary school. Of course, it's still that little building in the neighborhood with rush hours around 8:30, 12:00 and 3:00, with sticky pieces on the walls and paintings on the windows. But the difference is that children from families where no Dutch is spoken or no books are read are already given language lessons at the daycare center, giving them a fair start when they go to the big school. The difference is that in the teacher's room, the entire team met about how best to reduce the workload with the extra money. And that's why now in the teacher's room is a class assistant who gives a group of kids an extra lesson in clock-watching. The difference is that the big boys and girls from the superstructure, who are good with technical Lego, can go to a good technical vmbo nearby. The difference is that the teacher gets appreciation for the fantastic work he does every day: 8.5% more salary and a previously promised salary increase realized in a one-off benefit, which they received last week. The difference is that the ballot box in the auditorium for the participation council has become extra important, because the teacher now has the right to vote on the main lines of the budget. From the outside the same school, but essential changes for more equality of opportunity, for more space and confidence in education and for more accountability to parents, students and teachers. To do so, we also had to lose the necessary things: the calculation test, the Teaching Co-operation, the cascade payment, the maximum binding study advice.We'll talk about this later on, and the improper selection at the gate. Yet we are far from there. D66 continues to fight for the best education, and investment continues to be a part of it. However, I note that there is a decline in support for educational investment. That's because we don't have enough insight into where the money is going. Yes! I see that Mr Futselaar sits on the tip of his chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u284	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u285	Okay, Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, this is because many administrations do not make it all a mess. Literally and figuratively a jar. In this education system, it is possible that, across all sectors, governments are building huge reserves. The balance on bank accounts increases every year. At WOinAction, the boards stand side by side with students and teachers to demand additional investments from The Hague, while keeping much more money in reserve than necessary and they can bank with the government. In total, the large universities have nearly 3 billion in their general reserve. I used this autumn recess for a few days to dig through all the universities' annual accounts for the last few years, and the results are appalling. For example, at the University of Groningen, the general reserve increased from 418 million in 2013 to 574 million in 2017. An increase of 156 million, while no additional pre-investments have been made. Money that should have been spent on smaller working groups, better guidance for students, lower workload, permanent staff, in short: better education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u286	The first thing I want to say is that I agree with Mr Van Meenen. However, I would like to explain that at the University of Groningen there is 363 million of that amount in the buildings. This is evident from the same financial statements; I have also been reading for a while. I actually want to go on to: what can we do about this? Because I agree with Mr Van Meenen that the reserves are problematic. In 2008 there was the Don Commission, which looked at reserves at universities. That committee has said: it is very difficult to say anything about it in general because of the huge differences between universities and so on; you should do a sub-categories study and then come up with some sort of standard of "this is enough." That has never been done; that advice has never been carried out. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me that it would be wise to ask the Minister to do so, so that we can simply have some kind of measure and not all of them are for themselves, and then you have to decide whether 100 million for Twente is a lot, 500 million for Groningen little etcetera?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u287	Two comments on this. I would have made the first one just before the interruption. You can say: oh, there's 363 million in buildings; then it's okay. But that's what you might be wondering. Why is that in buildings anyway? Why do universities own so many buildings? Why don't they go on the capital market like ordinary citizens, for example? They can do this very simply and much better and take the burden into their operation rather than necessarily want to become the owner of those buildings. Because it's also a huge burden. Suppose that you call those general reserves, they are also part of the general reserves, but I wouldn't go on about that now, but I wouldn't have to do it in the form of a reserve, then it's also stuck. So that's really bad in my eyes. That's one. As far as I am concerned, the answer to Mr Futselaar's question is: yes, I also think that this cannot go on like this. I also find it unbearable that those same boards with all these reserves can get their students and their teachers so crazy to knock here at the gate for extra money. There's gonna be a lot of extra money, no matter what you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u288	Yes. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u289	So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u290	You could have said that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u291	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u292	Mr President, Mr Van Meenen and I enjoy this kind of exchange. My second question is rather short. About thirteen hours ago D66 tweeted: "Universities have 2,800,000,000 euros (!!) free money is on the shelf." This is demonstrably incorrect. D66 is a major opponent of disinformation and fake news, so I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen if D66 is going to correct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u293	Well, I'm not planning on doing that for a while. If universities have 2.8 billion in general reserves, if they call them that, and do not write it down on own funds or on land-use reserves, then I'll stick with it. Then let the universities explain that it's different. But that's what they write down in their own financial statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u294	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u295	Then Mr Van Meenen simply has to be with the auditors who approve the annual accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u296	Well, I think maybe the universities should be with that accountant, but that's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u297	Those are hired outsiders, so the odds are...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u298	Oh, well, then it's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u299	...that they're party mates!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u300	I'm gonna let this go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u301	Mr Van Meenen of D66 admits that the general reserves are actually not freely expendable and that they are in buildings. I appreciate that. Buildings, that's mainly about lecture halls, canteens, labs. But I'm really surprised to hear a D66 room member say to our universities: you have to market those buildings, those lecture halls, those canteens, those labs. Why do you want to do that? I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u302	I'm not saying that at all. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u303	I think Mr Van Meenen just literally said...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u304	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u305	...that they should just throw it on the market and get rid of it. That's what you literally said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u306	No, I'm not saying they have to get rid of that. You might wonder why universities want to have the full ownership of buildings at all. That's a whole different thing. It is not the primary task of education authorities to own buildings. I also own a building, namely the house in which I live, but I don't have it in full ownership. I have a loan at the bank. That's what universities can do. That means something quite different for their exploitation. This means that there is much more financial scope to invest in education. So you can't just say: oh, a part of it is in buildings if that's the case, huh? So it's okay. No, it's not okay at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u307	This doesn't make it any better. Mr Van Meenen of D66 now says: universities must get rid of their own buildings, their laboratories, lecture halls and canteens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u308	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u309	He says they should only have mortgages and start borrowing on the market. That doesn't make it any better. My real question is this. What Mr Van Meenen is actually saying to universities is that I want you to start by biting on a stick, first undressing your reserves to the bone and then perhaps helping them. That couldn't have come from the mouth of a D66 chamber member, could it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u310	No, but that doesn't come from the mouth of a D66 room member either. This is merely put in by Mr Özdil, who, in my opinion, does not understand very well how it works. Anyway, I'll leave that for a while. Look, here's the thing. That biting on a stick is precisely the case. Universities save all their money and then set up buildings at once. This is very much at the expense of the resources they actually have in order to do good education and research. They could also, as a good house-father, ensure that they can simply get very cheap money from the minister via treasury banking on a normal capital market or, if necessary, on a long-term basis. But they don't. If what Mr Özdil says is true, they have hundreds of millions in property. Then they own buildings. That's not the job of university boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u311	I'll leave the disappointing personal fact alone. What I'm saying here didn't come out of my own tube. It's our university institutions that report this. You can deny that. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u312	No, I'm not denying anything. I can also see that some of them indicate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u313	Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u314	I also see that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u315	Mr. Van Meenen, he's not finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u316	Oh, sorry, I thought he was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u317	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u318	No, well, you name it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u319	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u320	There's no clear answer. We have a D66 spokesperson here who says to universities: "Go bite on a stick and we'll think about money." He doesn't even say that, but I hope he finds out. But it's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u321	That's exactly what I'm not saying. I say that at the moment the people must not be the administrators, but they are the teachers and students who are biting on a stick because in the past the university authorities have chosen to become the owners of buildings. That's why they have to bite on a stick, and that's why, perhaps, you know that apparently, you've been in contact with all those drivers............................................................................................................................................................................................ I don't know if it's GroenLinks' intention that educational money...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u322	Don't provoke me, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u323	...gets into rocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u324	Yeah, you already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u325	Mr President, it is a personal fact here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u326	Yes, a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u327	I'll be brief. You call it rocks, they're actually lecture halls and canteens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u328	You've made your point. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u329	I'm trying to understand where Mr Van Meenen is going with this. It is undoubtedly true that there are reserves. Some of them are in fixed assets, particularly in buildings and laboratories. That's right. It is also true that the universities themselves did not choose to do so. That's an assumption you're making. In the 1980s, the National Buildings Service transferred ownership. Not all universities liked that very much, because with the property they also got the responsibility to maintain it at some point and that is quite an expensive hobby, I can tell from experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u330	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u331	But I have two questions for you. What exactly do you want with these buildings? Do you want them to be alienated or otherwise financed? The second is: what is a good reserve? Do you have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u332	That will vary from one institution to another. The size of the institutions varies, the risks may vary. The Don Committee said something sensible about this at the time. You could look at that. I don't want anything with those buildings. I know what you mean. In the 1980s a number of these buildings were transferred. A lot of those buildings won't be there by now. What I am concerned about is that, and we can always talk about it, an important part of what the universities call general reserves is apparently in stone, according to them. It's okay to worry about that. All that money, every euro, is ultimately meant to provide good education. The question is whether that money will ever come out. If there are such reserves, whether in stones or otherwise, and there is a lot of extra money coming from the study advance, whatever you think of them, I find it very bad that students and teachers are actually being misled and sent to The Hague for extra money, while it is just lying there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u333	I go with you in part, in the sense that the government often prescribes by regulation how to appreciate it. This is often at replacement or acquisition value. There are rules on how that should be appreciated. Reserves must be made for them, reserve allocations if it is certain that they will be spent on them. That's what the accountant checks every year, at least that's what they did at the dome where I've been a driver for a while. In part, we prescribe things as well. We also require that there should be a certain solvency ratio, i.e. 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u334	Yeah, that's way higher at all universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u335	Some of them. I've seen that at TU, it's 45% to 46%. It's possible. That is why my question to you is: is that 30% a kind of directive of what it should be maximum? Do you have any resistance to build? I also know domes where at some point the administration is so bad that one really lacks and suffers loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u336	Your question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u337	I'm just exploring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u338	It's a very important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u339	Well, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u340	He knows what you're gonna ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u341	Yeah, how high should the reserves be? They're very high. Suppose a part consists of stones... Let's just take that and let's take half. Then it's another 1.4 billion. What risks does a university run? That is very much the question. The number of students is growing. Government revenue is rising. Of the staff, 30% to 40% are not in permanent employment, which in itself is a disgrace. Those are all risks that are actually already covered. The question is, therefore, why this money is needed at all and why it is going to increase in times when pre-investment should actually be made. Those are all questions I'm asking. I just want an answer to that. I want the Minister to take a good look at this and set standards if necessary; fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u342	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u343	Then I'll explain it as a real estate specialist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u344	Yeah, I hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u345	Let me give you an example. The function of university determines the value, especially for the university. That doesn't mean the real estate market pays for it. When the Rijksmuseum was rebuilt, about 280 million went into it, but the real estate, that thing, never costs more than 50 million to 60 million, because it had that value specifically as a museum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u346	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u347	Then you're not going to put that value up as a general reserve, are you? That doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u348	No, Mr. Van Meenen. What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u349	No, Mr. Van Meenen, that is the system that has been devised in the context of the replacement or acquisition value. That's in your mind, but I'm going a long way with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u350	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u351	If Mr Van Meenen proposes and asks the Minister to examine this carefully and see how these reserves relate...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u352	Then you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u353	I'd be happy to join him. I would like to express my sincere support for a proper examination and mapping of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u354	Then I suggest you continue, Mr. Van Meenen, because he agrees with you. So you do not have to go into that in detail, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u355	But I hope that Mr Azarkan will first send the students or the teachers, when they come here, back to their own board to ask where the money went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u356	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u357	Because that is my crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u358	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u359	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u360	Mr. Van Meenen, we can't do that based on what you're calling out in the paper. You say we'll send them back first, but I think we should do careful research first. The Minister could ask you to do that. In doing so, we map out what these reserves are, how they are in the books and what part of them we could spend, but of course we do not do so on the basis that you find them and call them in the newspapers, because that is no way to debate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u361	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u362	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u363	I'm just reading the university annual reports and I'm reading 2.8 billion in general reserves. That's what I read. That is my starting point so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u364	Please continue. You have 14 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u365	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman. Where was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u366	Yeah, that's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u367	At Groningen, with money to be spent on smaller working groups, lower workload, permanent staff and better guidance; in short, to better education. I therefore call on students and teachers to look at the budget of their own institution and where all that money remains before they go to Malieveld. There is an important part of the solution to these problems. First look at what the driver deserves, how high the solvency is and how much the reserves have increased. What's going on in the marketing and PR department? For let us be: we are in a system based on mutual competition. There's a lot of time, energy and money in there. I was a driver for 16 years. If you have a strategy and policy department, you're doing something really wrong, because that's exactly what you're a driver for. So you shouldn't leave that to someone else. So my call is: go first spend the money that's on the shelf. But also in the foundational education system, the system brings about a concentration of power among the administrations. That's because we're funding governments instead of schools. In recent years, we have seen that this system is failing. Here too, the bank account increased by 147 out of 213 boards. That money should have ended up in class. In addition, they did not reach an agreement to increase the number of teachers and did not comply with the terms of the board agreement. D66 has already called for direct funding of the schools, so that we will be in a direct relationship with the classroom rather than with a heavily administrative civil society. No more boards to which schools have to pay 22% of the funding while they have no idea what they will get in return, where there are more educational policy staff than in the Ministry and where drivers earn a top salary. So I repeat that it is precisely those school leaders who should be given the primacy again instead of having to ask the board for approval of a new language or calculation method. Joint tasks such as housing, personnel policy and ICT can be organised through a cooperative relationship. This also makes it much clearer for parents, students, students and teachers how much money there is and where it is spent. The motion I have previously tabled on this subject will be put to the vote next week on the other motions on the budget. Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, it can be better, much better. The governance agreement with primary schools will expire in 2020. Let us no longer make agreements of this kind with a dome of directors, but also with teachers, tripartite, so that we set goals for which there is support and where the Chamber is involved, but also the teachers; I told you so. Let's not pump the money into a performance box, which turns out to be a black box. No one knows where the money has gone, but at least it has not been spent on the goals set, such as "difficulter education," "wider education improvements," "professional schools" and "through development." D66 is convinced that precisely these goals can be better achieved with good teachers for the classroom. And anyone who doubts whether it is a good idea to make this kind of arrangement, I highly recommend the book De sneakende crisis, by René Kneyber. He explains again how such agreements are doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u368	Mr Van Meenen of D66 has a great deal of criticism of boards and financial reserves held in bank accounts. I know those numbers, too, and I'm pretty good at that. There is actually a low level of education in which a lot of money remains in the bank account. I have dealt with this in my contribution. Those are the partnerships.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u369	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u370	It's 238 million by now. I know that 152 partnerships are involved, but 238 million is still a very high amount. I wonder whether Mr Van Meenen also thinks that we should be stricter on this, look more closely at it and perhaps also make more demands on the partnerships and their financial reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u371	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u372	As may be well known, D66 voted against the introduction of appropriate education in both the First and Second Chambers, also because of the construction of the partnerships. We see what's happening now. You have described it well in your own contribution. So yes, as far as I am concerned, we can of course talk about that. Because the 238 million didn't end up with children. So, of course, I would like to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u373	I welcome this answer and I will certainly go to Mr Van Meenen for a further elaboration of any plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u374	Yes. Well, we will continue to talk about appropriate education in the near future, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u375	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u376	Mr. Chairman. The goals I mentioned just now can best be achieved with good teachers for the class. That requires appreciation and therefore a good salary and therefore, as far as we are concerned, another step in reducing the difference. In this way, we can prevent a similar shortage of teachers in the future. The 263 million for the performance box is entered in the budget in a structural manner. My proposal is to examine whether part of it can be accounted for by 2020 for teachers' salaries. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of salaries, during the AO Teachers, the Minister indicated that there will soon be negotiating space again in the salaries of the Empire, the so-called reference space. It is strange, however, that only the employers' councils have an insight into the whole area, while the unions are also at the table when a collective agreement is concluded. The employee representation has no insight into the pay area. This prolongs and complicates collective bargaining. Is the Minister prepared to make the space letter public? Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, a motion by Mr Rog and myself has put an end to the cooperation on education. The motion expressly stated that the tasks and powers of the cooperative, which can count on support from teachers, should be preserved, such as, for example, TeachersDevelopingFonds, the LOF, which supports entrepreneurial teachers to realize their ideas. They ensure that education continues to renew and connect with the individual pupil, current society and the labour market. There's Master Lars, who developed an transcendent project called Mission to Mars. Now that I'm reading it, I realize it could have been called Lars to Mars. Anyway, that aside. Nothing but praise for these teachers and the LOF, I would like to say. Yeah, there's been real thought about this text, as you can see, haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u377	It's almost Sinterklaas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u378	D66 wants part of the budget for the Education Co-operation to be retained for the LOF, preferably the original amount released by the Straus/Ypma motion in 2014, when the development fund was set up, namely structuralally 5 million. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u379	I actually want a little bit back in the text, if that's possible. I want to go to the performance box Mr Van Meenen is referring to. Indeed, these funds are allocated structurally by 2020 to go freely to education via the lumpsum. Mr Van Meenen is proposing to investigate whether we can identify this as an earpiece for salaries. That may be sympathetic on the one hand, but on the other hand, of course, something is happening with this money. For example, all kinds of people are paid for in school, the ICTs, the care coordinators and the support. Is the image of Mr Van Meenen that people who are now employed can no longer be paid in favour of an increase in the salary of the teachers who are now there? Isn't that work pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u380	No, that's not true as far as I'm concerned. I understand the concern, because the money is not spent at all on the purposes for which it was once given, but it will undoubtedly be spent on something. That is why I have expressly said that I want to investigate whether this can be justified. I would add that other elements are also changing. For example, there are many more work pressure equipment. In all possible ways things are going to change that might make it possible to do so, but that is also a question for me to do in a responsible way. However, I do believe that we have a duty to continue to look at this and to take another step, where this can be done, during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u381	These work pressure devices are designed to reduce the workload and not to reduce the workload that is being increased by removing people who are now working in education. If this is to be investigated, I believe that we should at least ensure that the people working in education can continue to work there and that there is no increase in workload. 'Cause that would be a real shame. That's a cigar from your own box that I don't think anyone can agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u382	Totally once...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u383	Period!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u384	... but one of the worst ways of increasing workload is that teachers leave and there's no substitute. The shortage of teachers is therefore a work pressure factor. Salaries can have a meaning in that. In that sense, I think I will meet Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u385	Mr Van Meenen spoke nicely about putting all kinds of institutions on the sidelines that do not involve teachers in all kinds of educational renewals, for example the Education Co-operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u386	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u387	I saw Mr Van Meenen look a little inquisitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u388	Yeah, I didn't mention any others, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u389	I am now going to call you another one: the curriculum review. You are also reading it all and that is why you will not be surprised how many questions there are with teachers about what will eventually come out of it. Does Mr Van Meenen not agree with me on this point?He knows the position of the SP in this regard: the least we could ask is that, together with the delivery of the finished products, a thorough study of the support of teachers is also sent to the Chamber? In this way we know for sure that we will not agree to an educational renewal, whatever the content, which no lecturer is waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u390	I think it's wise that you look at the curriculum once in a while. Let me start with that. That's quite a task. The exciting thing about what we're doing right now is that we're doing this to teachers for the first time. We should be very pleased that this is happening. I have been there recently and Mrs Van den Hul has been there, but she has to tell me herself. There, with a lot of passion by teachers who just stand in front of the class every day, is working on the curriculum renewal. Of course that's a limited group. It's hard to think of that with 125,000 teachers. But it's also something we have to give the chance to do. I do not rule that out, then I do not really know how to do innovation in education in a good and well-behaved way, because then we tried just about everything. Then we've got teachers involved. I also know that there are a lot of teachers who have no idea that all this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u391	Mr. Kwint. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u392	That's too bad, but I think it's worth it. But I agree...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u393	All right, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u394	... with Mr. Kwint that we should finally look at the basis of support. I imagine we'll have big sessions here in due course to check all that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u395	I really want the question not only to be brief, but also to be brief. You really take a lot of space for your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u396	They're very difficult questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u397	No, it was a very specific question and it could have been much shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u398	Mr Van Meenen answers a lot of things I have not asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u399	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u400	Of course, fantastic things happen in that development team and its teachers hard at work to get the best out of it. That's not my point. My point is elsewhere. Anyway, we're not gonna do the whole discussion on the curriculum review right now. It'll come later. Isn't it the least we can expect that the cabinet will also send a support inquiry to the Chamber when it comes to the proposals that are finally being developed, in which it will show its support? Of course we can organize a hearing here, but if you're talking about the usual suspects that show up at some hearings in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u401	Sorry, I misunderstood your question. I also see a role for the Chamber in that. I don't think that's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u402	Thank you. You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u403	As long as the questions are clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u404	Who was there? Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u405	I have just one additional comment to make on Mr Kwint's question. There is an adopted motion that says that in the curriculum review at every step we take, a Dijsselbloem test is sent by the cabinet towards the Chamber. So that test whether there is support will be taken at every step if that motion is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u406	Yeah, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u407	Mr Van Meenen spoke just now about reducing the pay gap in relation to the teacher shortage. I would like to ask some additional questions about the shortage of teachers. Or would Mr Van Meenen go into that further in his text?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u408	Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u409	I didn't have that impression, so that's why I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u410	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u411	Then I'll take this opportunity. We are still waiting for a handout from the Minister towards schools how to deal with the most acute forms of it. Over the last few weeks we have seen a number of serious excesses, which we have already discussed in committee; in Zaandam and Lelystad. I am very curious how Mr Van Meenen looks at such a hand-out. I called it "sandbags" in that debate. What kind of sandbags does Mr Van Meenen think of in these schools? They say: it is good to talk about the longer term, but what is the point tomorrow or in the very short term? What is Mr Van Meenen thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u412	I have also said this in general consultation, and I will not repeat it all here. Quality of teachers must always be paramount. So we should not put sandbags in front of the classroom, just to summarize it very briefly. I also said: there is no silver bullet. There's not one thing that we can do now, or maybe three things that we can do now, and then tomorrow those classes are full of very good teachers again, if only. Ten years of neglect, at least, of this problem, has caused this. We're not gonna take that back in a year. Fortunately, good things happen: more registrations with the pabo and all kinds of creative things. I have made a proposal myself for a master-pabo for people with a related study, and so many sensible proposals have been made, including by the cabinet. I think we should try everything and not rule anything out. For me, there is one thing that comes first: that there is ultimately a high-quality teacher in front of the classroom. By the way, I do think that schools should be given a little more room to respond to this, but that is something else. I myself wish you could do that from a pedagogical point of view, because I can imagine all kinds of things, but in such a four-day emergency, I would say that we should also deal with this with some understanding. Better that than a bad teacher a day in front of the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u413	I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen. He mentioned a number of proposals he made and made to the cabinet. The opposition has also made a number of proposals, in the form of long-term dikes and short-term sandbags. Of course no one wants sandbags for the classroom, but there are other solutions that can be found to reduce the workload of teachers in the short term, including Mr Westerveld's amendment and myself on more space to train janitors in the short term. We have put forward proposals for a more structural closing of the pay gap. I hope that Mr Van Meenen will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u414	I am prepared to look at all the proposals, but in the case of amendments, of course, it is particularly important that there should be proper, comprehensive coverage. I would also point out that this cabinet is investing 450 million in structural reductions. For example, if schools find the best solution to hire a janitor, they can also choose that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u415	Finally, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u416	There are still a lot of schools where janitors don't work. There are still a lot of people who want to work in education. One plus one is two. We have a very good proposal for that, with excellent coverage, even if I say so myself. I invite Mr Van Meenen to take a very good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u417	I'm going to study that very carefully. By the way, one of the best things I do... A lot of D66 departments organize the election "concierge of the year." That's a real party. I hope to be able to celebrate in many places. Mr. Chairman. In the last debate on the shortage of teachers, D66 suggested starting an educational master's degree with instruction for the primary school. I was just talking about it. This makes it attractive for students with a bachelor's degree or educational sciences to complete their studies and find their way to the classroom. This group brings new and broad knowledge into the school. I am pleased that the Minister responds enthusiastically to the plan and is prepared to give effect to it by discussing it in the spring. Is it possible to conclude those talks before the Spring Note is dealt with? Then we can see if there is any financial impetus to it. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group was very pleased with the criticism made by the Minister at the opening of the academic year on the binding study advice. The so-called BSA has once been designed to guide students with little chance of success to a more appropriate study, but in the meantime it has long since failed to achieve its goal. It has become a hidden selection to allow only students with a high return. All students who need some extra support or need some longer time will be expelled from the programme. I know plenty of stories about successful students who have to get out of training except one. Missing potential, if you ask me. In addition, the students who have fallen out simply re-enrol for the same study in another city. The students are being pumped around unnecessarily and are experiencing expensive study delays. Mr. Chairman. Students are 17, 18 years old when they start their new student life. It's grown-ups in the making, so they get to make a mistake once in a while. So please let us treat and support them in the process. Let's have a little more patience with people instead of putting that high performance pressure on us with a higher return. So when it comes to the BSA, please focus more on the A and less on the B, more on the advice and less on being binding on it. It's even more curved in the MBO. There the students have the right of admission, but they can be sent after the first year of the training if they do not make it to the BSA. D66 voted against that part of the law at the time. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how she looks at the BSA in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u418	Mr. Van Meenen of D66 is now sketching a very gloomy picture of the BSA. Of course, the BSA was also a great tool to protect young students from wrong choices at the right time. It's only capital destruction if they go on and find out a year later. That's what it's like to charge students with extra loans and so on. So as far as I'm concerned, everyone was quite satisfied with that BSA, but apparently not just this minister. There has been no consultation with the universities. There has been no consultation with the coalition about abolishing or lowering the BSA. I have even heard that the D66 Group has not even been consulted with you, Mr Van Meenen. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u419	You don't have to. I have my own views on that. That's what I'm talking about here. This is not what the Minister's letter says either. This is the view of D66. As far as we are concerned, we rely on the confidence in the choice of young adults themselves. Let's let them decorate their own lives. I do not think that this is the way we are going to steer it. We are going to have that debate with each other, but I think it is important to put it down on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u420	But for the background of the story, you do indeed confirm the image that this minister has thrown something entirely new into the world, namely lowering the BSA, without any consultation or consultation with you, as a kind of queen of accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u421	I am very pleased that we have a self-thinking minister who can do that very well. A queen of accessibility, well, I'd be happy to take it from here. Well, now that you put it that way, that's actually how I see it. So I'm only very proud of that, as you'll realize. And, well, we're gonna have the debate on that. Let us be honest, it must be reassuring for you that things are absolutely not boarded up in the back rooms. It's just an open debate we're having here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u422	And BSA is the binding study advice, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u423	The binding study advice, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u424	What disappoints me so much about Mr Van Meenen is that he blames others with great words and generalizations to get to work, but he does so himself now. The binding study advice has become... etc. Does Mr Van Meenen know how many studies have binding study advice at all and how high these points are? When I hear Mr Van Meenen talking like that, I get the impression he doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u425	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u426	Mr Van Meenen's generalization is a bit like the generalization that Minister Van Engelshoven used. Let every education choose for itself what is best to set out as binding study advice. For some, that's 60 points and just get your propedeuse in a year, which was normal in my day. It's not a duty. It's just a standard. People can really re-launch. I myself had to do this a few times to get my propedeuse in a year. Let one education choose 60, the other 38 and the other for nothing instead of putting down such a mass measure for mediocrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u427	That's the difference between the VVD and D66. Apparently, the VVD wants to give freedom of choice to the training courses. Which determine whether it's 38, 54 or 60, in the sense of, what difference does it make? That's exactly my problem. As a liberal, I prefer to leave the freedom of choice with the people themselves, so with the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u428	The nice thing is that students can choose to study for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u429	Sure, they can choose that. The fun part is that students really want this to go away because they don't see themselves being treated all grown up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u430	Finally, Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u431	That too is a generalization that is not true. I also have enough e-mails from students saying: please, boys, don't be so patronizing in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u432	That's exactly what we're not gonna do anymore. We are not just gonna send people away from an education from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u433	Freedom belongs not only to individuals but also to organisations and people working together. As a CDA, I'd like to make that point. It's not just the student's freedom. As a CDA, I think it is important that a team should be able to discuss participation where they want to set the bar and that this should not happen in this house. I have another question for Mr Van Meenen. He always says that the BSA means a huge study print. Do you know what a huge increase in study pressure is? That you now need to borrow everything together, that every choice you make really involves thousands of euros of student debt. So how do you get it together in your own head that it's okay to let students borrow heavily but that getting those 40 points is something we need to do quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u434	I see you have a lot of friends in the room today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u435	It's a lively debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u436	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u437	Opposition, coalition, it runs right through each other. One would almost think that Mr Van der Molen is not a member of a coalition that simply chooses to continue the loan system quietly. That is also very sensible because Mr Van der Molen was just standing here saying that this cabinet is investing a lot more in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u438	And now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u439	But that is the money that comes from the loan system, which no longer goes to the children of Mr Duisenberg, which we could read in the daily newspaper. It was said by the LSVb, for example, that it should come back and explained to Mr Duisenberg that it works well: my children do not need it. In the past, all those kids got a basic scholarship. You want that back. I don't want that. I'd rather give that money to the people who need it and to better education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u440	In any case, we have had a whole discussion about Mr Van Meenen's calculus here tonight. I'm gonna put another shovel on it. With regard to the prices of this cabinet for the 850 million from the coalition agreement, that was on top of what the previous cabinet had done in terms of investment. The problem with investment in the loan system is that, in general, they do not come exactly as we wanted and that the last 200 million that had to be taken out of student travel, which was also promised, must also be taken together. So what I'm trying to say is this. When it comes to student printing, we also have to look together to see that every choice you make now has a financial impact, and you have to wear it. That's what I call study pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u441	I believe that the binding study advice places an improper study pressure on students. Of course, I also think that training is free to set the bar somewhere, but that is the bar that determines what you need to be able to do to get on with your training. If you don't make it, you can do it again if you want. The binding study advice says that if you think you're gonna make it next time, we have nothing to do with it, so you're leaving. And then you can go to another university and do exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u442	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u443	And one more comment on the effects of the loan system. That money, the extra investment, is intended for much better guidance for smaller groups. That should also take away the pressure from students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u444	Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u445	Finally. I think that Mr Van Meenen is the last person here to make a fervent plea for the standardisation of the binding study opinion, because I read in the Minister's letter that she wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u446	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u447	And as a CDA, I was very pleased that that was left of it, because we do not support the idea that we in this Chamber should determine what teams and participations can better determine for themselves for the training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u448	That is fine, but we are here deciding which instruments we give institutions to deal with students. And I think this is a bad instrument. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u449	It's always nice if a nuanced middle party can take on a central function. I can say that both Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van Meenen are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u450	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u451	The loan system is indeed a curse. But with everything Mr Van Meenen has said about the BSA, I agree. That is why I have a very short question. Will we, therefore, arrange this week for the BSA to be restricted, in accordance with the statements made by the Minister in September?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u452	No, I'm not. We're just gonna have the debate with each other. We're gonna do that in a very orderly manner. We're not gonna do a quickie here right now. I am not at all in favour of a motion to abolish it right now. We're just not gonna do that. I would also like to hear the Minister about this; extended, and not just thirteen seconds in a VAO's. So you may mention a proposal, but I shall have to vote against it again. Then you can say: look! But believe me, this is really what I find. I will always find this at the end of the day, but as far as I am concerned, we are going to have that debate together at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u453	Then I must say to Mr Van Meenen: thank you for the cuckoo! The Minister gave a ruling two months ago, then wrote two months about a letter concerning, among other things, the BSA ruling, saying: I am going to talk to the institutions again. That's actually what that letter says about the BSA. Then you can't say that you actually want to know what the Minister thinks? The Minister said that in September, and the Minister said in November what she was going to do, and that is nothing. Then it's up to the Chamber to take action, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u454	No, I don't read that letter like that. No way. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u455	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u456	I note that Mr Van Meenen reads letters as he reads balance sheets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u457	I'm just a simple math teacher, so I guess I can't do all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u458	Mr Van Meenen is indeed quite right about the binding study opinion. The name says it already: binding advice. So that's like compulsory volunteering or alcohol-free beer: that's just not possible. I agree with Mr Futselaar alone. Mr Van Meenen says here: unfortunately we had to maintain the BSA in the coalition agreement, but personally I think it is just a bad idea for BSA as a D66. Mr Van Meenen also voted against the GroenLinks motion last January, which called for the BSA to be abolished. Then the question asked by Mr Futselaar remains. So what is the point of what you call debate? You keep saying here that you're against it personally, but when it comes to it, you're not prepared to get rid of the BSA. Then what exactly was your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u459	Just before there are all kinds of misunderstandings: there is no coalition agreement at all that says that the BSA is preserved or whatever. That's not what the coalition agreement is about. There are much bigger and more important things in it. And I am prepared to have that debate at any time. But we voted against the motion at the time, because that debate still had to be held. We knew the Minister would come up with a very large letter on accessibility and selection. I thought it was nice to wait and see, and I still do. Let's have that conversation. I have my point of view. You've got her ready, too. I would add that for higher education, because for the MBO, you didn't mind the binding study advice being issued. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u460	Yeah, I actually... Yes, Mr. Özdil?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u461	Mr President, briefly. Mr Van Meenen knows that this is not true. When Rutte II introduced the BSA into the MBO, my predecessor Rik Grashoff made sure that the BSA was watered down, so that students were not sent away. You know that, too. But that aside. You just said that nothing was decided on the BSA in the coalition agreement. That makes your story even weaker. If, like us, D66 is really opposed to the binding study advice, what will you have to say together with the opposition: let us abolish it? We can do that on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u462	That's what I'm saying. But we're not gonna do that. We're just gonna have that debate nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u463	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u464	It won't be long now. Just a few more weeks. There's a nice letter from the Minister. And then we'll just go on about it. Okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u465	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u466	So if you table the motion now, I shall vote against it again. And we'll have that debate in three weeks. And then maybe I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u467	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u468	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Deaf and hearing impaired. I'd like to talk to you about that. At the beginning of this month, I was visiting Dedicon. This is an agency that adapts with OCW grant teaching material for visually impaired and dyslexic students, so that they can go to a regular school. I was also allowed to leave a piece of audiobook. That is extremely difficult, I can tell you. But there are hundreds of volunteers who do this all the time. It's very nice work. But at the moment students or students with dyslexia or severe motor impairment cannot ask Dedicon to change teaching material. My question is: does the Minister see opportunities to extend Dedicon's task with these possibilities and increase the grant by €200,000 a year? That's what it takes. Last summer, the then Secretary of State said he was still talking about the tender for adapted teaching material for students with dyslexia. What is the situation and is there money in the 2019 budget for a follow-up to the production, reproduction and distribution of adapted teaching material for students with dyslexia? Dedicon will continue to suffer in the future, because there is no wage-price order on the subsidy amount. Can the Minister apply this adjustment? Mr. Chairman. I'll take you back in time. A little over 100 years ago, a 26-year-old physicist in Switzerland came to a theory about gravity waves as part of a relativity theory. That was Albert Einstein, of course. But it took literally an eternity to provide empirical evidence for that theory. There was no suitable measuring equipment and research infrastructure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The relationship between that great researcher in Switzerland and this Minister of Science in subject-K: they both believe in fundamental research. In the Netherlands this is made possible by this minister. It gradually increases the budget for basic research to 200 million a year. The same amount is also being invested in applied research and innovation. And in order not to have to wait another 100 years until there is an appropriate research infrastructure, the Minister is therefore going to pay another 100 million for that. Nothing but praise! Mr. Chairman. You're not quoting a scientist like Einstein by chance, because with the telescope named after him... Everything I say about this is also on behalf of Mr Van der Molen. Can I put it that way? 'Cause he was running out of time, but he's gonna find all this, too, I hope. I can take advantage of this! Yeah, that loan system, that's actually a really good idea... Haha! Again, you are not quoting a scientist like Einstein by chance, because with the telescope named after him, we will soon be able to look at the edges of our universe and investigate the earliest stages after the Big Bang. It is an instrument that many countries are all too eager to attract, because there are more than a thousand high-quality scientific jobs involved and because it will be a magnet that attracts scientific talent, were it not that there are only three suitable locations throughout Europe. It is only there that gravity waves can be observed because of the special soil composition. These are Sardinia, a place in Hungary and the border region in South Limburg. And they don't sit still there in the south. Dutch, Belgian and German universities, institutes and governments work together to achieve a successful prayer. The Minister took note of this and earlier this year expressed the ambition to keep the Dutch prayer in the race. An important and essential step in the process towards a promising prayer is further development and research to see which techniques and competences are needed. All regional partners together have made a European request for funding to create a so-called Einstein Telescope Fieldlab. Has the Minister taken note of this and, if so, what does she think? Does it see any chance of giving concrete financial expression to this previously expressed ambition? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions on a very important subject, which is not dealt with sufficiently in this budget. I think GroenLinks has thought about it. It's about emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u469	Before you proceed, Mr. Heerema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u470	It's an enlightening question. Mr Van Meenen indicated on the subject of Dedicon that some room should be found for an additional contribution. It was not entirely clear to me whether Mr Van Meenen is asking the Minister to look for that €200,000 or whether Mr Van Meenen himself is going to come up with a proposal to find that money. Of course, it is not a lot of money in the budget, but there are also some issues, such as the 61 million in the p.o. and the 47 million in vo. The budget is also 99.9% legally compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u471	Yeah, I know. That's what makes it difficult. It's Tuesday night now. Soon it will be Thursday and I hope we will be further, but I will wait for the Minister's response first. But I understand the assignment. It can't just fall out of the sky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u472	I think Mr Van Meenen has now come to the end of his contribution on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u473	Yes, because I come to emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u474	Then I have one more question. Mr Van Meenen says that investment is being made to reduce, among other things, the workload. That's right. There is investment, but a lot less than Mr Van Meenen says. It is not 450 million, it is 257 million. The rest of that money will not be available until 2021, after the evaluation. I ask Mr Van Meenen how sure he is that the EUR 450 million will actually be there to deal with the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u475	I'm absolutely sure of that. That is simply in the multi-annual perspective of this cabinet, so there can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u476	I welcome that reply from Mr Van Meenen. It is, of course, the case that there will be an evaluation and that this evaluation will look at how effective the money is now being invested to reduce the workload. If you then see that, per average school of 225 students, about €35,000 will be available, the question is to what extent you can measure in the very short term whether this is enough to reduce the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u477	You won't be able to solve all the workload with it. That's why it's good that it's gonna grow. The sounds I hear so far are very enthusiastic. This also has to do with the process that has been chosen, namely simply to let it be spent in schools. That is an inspiration for me to send all the money to the schools, but that aside. People feel really helped. Everyone chooses their own tailor-made solution. That is very different from the fact that we are going to decide from here that, for example, there are janitors everywhere, I say a little teasing. Well, let me put it this way: I cannot imagine that this will not be a very great success. I think it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u478	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u479	First of all, our proposal is absolutely not to decide from here that there should be janitors everywhere. By the way, D66 has suggested this before, a janitor at every school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u480	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u481	Our proposal is precisely to extend the side-inflow scheme, which allows schools to apply themselves. But that wasn't my point. My point is this. The evaluation will examine how the work pressure equipment helps to reduce the workload. Can we measure that? In a few years, that might be hard to measure. That is why I asked Mr Van Meenen how certain he is that the money will be spent on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u482	He's already answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u483	I can only speak for myself at the moment, but for me that is certain. I'll do everything I can to make that happen. You can hold me to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u484	Mr Kwint, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u485	Yeah, like that at the end of the block of education. In Amsterdam, D66 took the lead in ensuring that all children can go on a school trip and that they can never be excluded from school trips and school celebrations, regardless of whether their parents can pay the parental contribution. Would Mr Van Meenen think it wise to arrange such a thing from The Hague for the whole of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u486	You refer, of course, to the initiative law, for which I very much appreciate it. I'm gonna take a look at it first. I hope there is also an analysis of the size of the problem, but I agree with you that it should not happen to any child. It's always the question, as we see it with other things that we want to solve, whether you solve it with a law. I'd like to keep that space for a while, if you don't mind, but we share 100% of the concern about the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u487	I count my blessings and wish Mr Van Meenen a great deal of reading pleasure and b indicate that the alternative route that has been chosen, namely to talk to school boards to see if we can reach agreement, has been going on for 22 years now. I hope that will be a decisive argument in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u488	That bill's gonna come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u489	Well, it fits in with the line I used in my speech: we really need to think very carefully about how we make agreements with schools and with school domes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u490	And now the emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u491	Yes, chairman, emancipation, a very important subject. I have a few questions about that. The Minister has drawn up a fine emancipation note and the first progress letter will come in the spring. Sexual education at school is always the most exciting lesson of the year for the teacher. Luckily, I can tell from the reactions that someone else is awake. Schools can do this themselves, but the core goals are that students treat each other respectfully, with sexuality and sexual diversity. At present, this key objective is being addressed in all schools, I ask the Minister. Is she satisfied with how that works and do students have an environment that is safe enough to express themselves? With this coalition agreement, we are carrying out the entire rainbow voting agreement. That's great, of course. D66 works together with the PvdA and GroenLinks on two of the points of the agreement through an initiative law. What is the situation at the moment with regard to the implementation of the other points of the Rainbow Tuning Agreement? In the spring progress report we get an official update. Could the Minister say something about it already? What's the timetable she's planning? And finally, Mr. Chairman. With the Einstein telescope we can look deep into the past, but unfortunately not far into the future. We're gonna have to do it ourselves. I am glad that we agree on one thing: if we continue to invest in science, research and education, and actually spend the money on it, then we will be increasingly able to contribute to shaping that future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u492	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u493	Mr. Chairman. It is the hour you are in our teaching. We see schools that are forced to send classes home or even introduce a four-day school week. Unbelievable in a rich country like the Netherlands, you might say. And yet this is the reality for more and more children and their parents. At the same time, we see that the division in our society is increasing, whether or not it is right in our education. Increasingly, parents with a higher income or educational level opt for schools where most children are alike. Private education is growing like coal. More and more children with rich parents take advantage of paid tutoring, increasing the chance gap. OECD research recently showed that children with a migration background in the Netherlands are at an additional disadvantage in our education. Income, education or background of your parents should not determine your chances at school. Quality differences between schools are unacceptable. Investment in business cannot be more important than in our education. In fact, companies themselves indicate that they are jumping for qualified personnel. Without proper education today, there will be no employees tomorrow. That is why we are opting for strong vocational education that prepares students for tomorrow's labour market and we are tabling an amendment to reverse the cuts in practical learning. And that is why we opt for free preschool for every child, for a better reward and less workload for teachers and for additional support for all children who need it. On top of the problems that already exist, education is also facing an additional mission of 163.5 million. Perhaps the most important question today: what is the Cabinet going to do to keep its promise that this will not be at the expense of the so-called primary process, of workload, of equality of opportunity and of quality of education? Every child must be sure of equal opportunities for good education, starting with a good teacher for the classroom. Mr. Chairman. Last year, together with colleagues from GroenLinks and the SP, I made a plea for closing the gap between primary and secondary education, an important measure in the fight against the growing shortage of teachers. We are now a year further with many debates and parliamentary questions and, more importantly, teachers who made themselves heard, from Groningen to Rotterdam. Loud and clear they indicated that the water is on their lips. That they do not exaggerate seems obvious, because classes are still forced to be sent home or parents are asked to babysit, simply because there is no teacher to be found. And then the flu wave hasn't even started. The solution begins with the attractiveness of the profession. He can and should be better. This is how teachers earn in the p.o. Still less than in the box. Therefore, together with GroenLinks, we are tabling an amendment calling for a start on closing that pay gap. Mr. Chairman. If there is one thing teachers can be proud of, it is their emancipation as a profession, united in existing unions and in newcomers like PO in action. The fact that there is a work pressure agreement is a concrete result of that. But teachers are far too often out of play when it comes to important decisions. The scale increase in education plays an important role in this. That is why today I am once again calling for the merger test to be retained. For no one gets better from colossal domes where no one can see above what is happening on the workplace and where teachers are so far away from where the decisions are made that practice and governance sometimes seem like a parallel universe. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that scaling doesn't lead to unsung leadership that even with binoculars can't see what the workplace wants? Transparency is also important in education, because how do we know whether the lump sum is sufficient and whether additional resources actually go to what they were intended for? How is it that there are still thousands of children at home because there can be no appropriate education for them and at the same time there are partnerships. How can unions negotiate fairly if they are already behind 1-0 in advance, because, unlike employers, they do not have access to the actual financial area, the so-called space letter that Mr Van Meenen has already mentioned? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Saving our education requires more than pointing to the collective bargaining table alone. It calls for shared responsibility and a delta plan with innovative ideas to increase the dikes sustainably. But while we are debating here in The Hague, many school director breaks her or his head about how they are going to prevent children from being sent home in the coming winter, next week or tomorrow. Even if the debates here sometimes suggest otherwise, I am convinced that we in the Chamber agree that the teacher shortage is so important that it transcends all political differences. We also see that this is a matter of concern to the Minister and that he is looking for solutions, but that is not enough. How are we going to ensure that no children are sent home in the next few days, weeks and months? In short, how do we ensure sandbags in addition to this dike increase? What is the Minister going to do in the short term in addition to this announced handout? What solutions can he offer that school leaders will be able to use tomorrow? Because every child who has to miss a day of education because there is no teacher, there is too much. The PvdA recently launched the Emergency Class Teacher package with both short-term and longer-term solutions, with, for example, proactive deployment of that silent reserve from government or business, rewarding people who want to stay longer working on it and providing more hands at school in the short-term, for example concierges, they were already called "class assistants" and break supervisors, but also by finally closing that pay gap and investing in career prospects for teachers. They too must be able to develop throughout their lives. We can now see that, unfortunately, this is under pressure in many schools due to workload and lack of teachers. It is precisely by investing in development opportunities for teachers that we make the profession attractive. This is important, because not only in primary education, but also in secondary and vocational education, there are major shortages. Does the Minister agree with us that it is precisely in vocational education that there are opportunities to organise careers less linearly? Yes, all that costs money, but the good news is that money is there. It's just a matter of choosing. Are these ministers prepared to go back to their colleagues in the cabinet and to stand up for teachers, for children, but also for companies that depend on well-trained staff, now and in the future? Because without investment today, the business community, which this cabinet is so good at, will have no skilled staff tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. There is a profession I would like to name today in particular: teachers in secondary special education, teachers working with vulnerable children who need extra attention. Teachers in the US are still covered by the collective agreement of primary education rather than secondary education. In response to a motion asking for the collective agreement to be aligned with that of the United States, the Minister challenged us to come up with a great deal of cover. I tasted a little benevolence from that. We know by now that scaling up the collective agreement for vso teachers would cost about EUR 20 million and we also know that the only available coverage in the OCW budget would mean cutting the teacher's fair and the side-inflow grant. That does not seem to us to be the solution. At the same time, we must not leave these teachers in the cold. So I'm gonna put the ball back in the cabinet after all. Do the Ministers see any chance of making the 20 million available so that the social partners can work towards this fairer collective agreement? Mr President, a concern of minists as great as the growing shortage of teachers is the increasing inequality of opportunity in education. More and more often, the neighborhood determines where you live, whether the diploma or the thickness of your parents' wallet determines what opportunities you get. That is unacceptable, because every child must be sure of a fair start. Young learner is old-fashioned. Especially children where that is less self-evident at home should be sure of a safe place where they get personal attention to grow, learn and develop playfully. And there's that place, the pre-school. But here too we see that children who need it are far from always using it. A teacher from the 3rd grade recently explained to me very clearly what the consequences for such a child would be once that came into her classroom. She said that the language level is lagging behind, that the transition to the big school is very large and that such children need a lot of extra attention, which not all teachers and masters in group 3 can offer. The choice to compensate for the costs of preschools for less wealthy families is in itself very nice. However, a bad side effect is that it creates a division in the preschools. Too often we see that the so-called compensated target recipients end up in the same shelter, while toddlers from parents who can cough up the costs themselves go to paid other care. And that is the beginning of undesirable segregation. Mr President, if we keep our shared desire for equal opportunities in focus, there is really only one truly fair solution: we make the preschool free for every child, just as it currently works in primary school. We now have a compulsory education from 5 years of age, but almost all children go to school from their fourth year of life. It simply happens because it is free and because it has gradually become the norm. Would the Minister be prepared to map out what a free pre-school offer of, for example, 16 hours a week could look like for each child, starting from a presentation in line with how we dealt with it in primary education? That way, every child is sure to get off to a fair start, and it no longer depends on your parents' wallet or the neighborhood you live in. Mr President, unfortunately, even in primary and secondary education, equal opportunities do not always speak for themselves. This has to do with opportunities for tutoring, exam training and homework guidance, but also with school advice and the types of school you can choose from depending on your travel distance. I welcome the broader research that the Minister is going to do on the quality and accessibility of that additional support that many children use in addition to regular education, i.e. so-called shadow education. Mr President, unfortunately we see that the freedom to choose the high school that suits you best has become increasingly under pressure. The Minister acknowledges this. Due to declining numbers of pupils, the number of schools will also decrease. However, this raises the question of how we can continue to provide as wide a range as possible, for example through broad schools. They are an excellent supplier of such a wide range of education. There you will be taught from vmbo to vwo level, preferably under one roof, as a student without changing schools you can either flow up or down and there you can follow a direction that best suits you. It is precisely this type of school that we receive from all over the country. We receive them from large cities, such as Amsterdam and Rotterdam, where more and more children go to category gymnasia. But we also receive them from shrinking regions. There is no risk of the new financing model being used. Of course, parents are free to choose the school type that best suits their children, but then there must be something to choose from. I would like to emphasise once again the social importance of large schools. At such schools there are not only children who look alike, but also children with very different backgrounds. Does the Minister share this view and is he prepared to look again at how the funding of broad school communities can be organised in such a way that VWO departments can be maintained and school communities really remain broad? Mr President, accessibility and quality are also under pressure in higher education. This cabinet's proposal to change the rate of interest on student loans from five- to ten-year interest rates will hit vulnerable students harder. Their costs are still increasing and the benefits of reducing tuition fees are likely to evaporate. As far as the quality impulse in higher education is concerned, we have already put forward a proposal, together with colleagues from the CDA and GroenLinks, to make sure that students really get some of these promised quality investments. But more is needed for good and accessible education. We see that students who are the first to study in their environment, but also students with disabilities and students with a migration background, are particularly vulnerable to outage. That is why we call for tailor-made work for these groups, for example by using buddy systems, as is already happening at some American universities. Peer-to-peer guidance is a proven effective method of helping vulnerable groups and preventing them from falling out prematurely. I would very much like to hear the Minister's ideas on this. Mr President, finally, the issue of emancipation. It is a subject that we talk about far too little here in the Chamber as far as I am concerned, as is the case with love; we talk too little about it. Love is love, whoever you are. Unfortunately, that is not yet a reality for everyone. Too many kids don't feel safe coming out of the closet in class and too many lht's can't be themselves at work. With the rainbow chord presented last year, we can turn the tide. I, too, would like to hear from the Minister about its implementation, for example the inclusion of lhbt acceptance in the curriculum of teacher training. This is an important step, which, as far as we are concerned, must be taken as quickly as possible. The same applies to the lhbt security agenda. Often the Netherlands is also shocked by homophobic or transphobic violence, as shown by the terrible incidents in Dordrecht, Amsterdam and elsewhere. That's unacceptable, because anyone should be able to be themselves anywhere. Can the Minister state what is going on in this respect with regard to the implementation of the Van den Hul/Sjoerdsma motion, which called for an action plan to tackle violence against those affected? Mr. Chairman. Not only lht'ers but also women in width still have a lot to gain when it comes to being safe yourself. No less than one in three women are victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence. One in three. It happens all the time behind the front door. I am pleased that the cabinet has embraced some of my proposals from the initiative paper 'Violence behind the front door: shame over', but we are far from there. Better cooperation between the different departments is needed, for example in the area of prevention. What is this minister doing to ensure that gender-specific policies are developed in the fight against violence against women, including in the other ministries concerned? Does the Minister agree with us that the role of men and boys in combating violence is very important? However, we read in the Emancipation Note mainly about women, and that is a missed opportunity for us, because emancipation is not just about women. It's about men, too. The IPU, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, recently launched a major investigation which showed that as many as 85% of the women representatives in Europe are faced with psychological violence, almost half of them were threatened with death or rape, 68% regularly received sexist comments and 25% were victims of sexual cross-border behavior or violence, including in the workplace. These are shocking figures, which I and a lot of female colleagues can unfortunately discuss. I also get tweets in which men think I should report that I'm hot or just a dirty feminazi, in which it is said that there should be an unnamed male body part or in which my hair color gives rise to qualifications about my IQ. Is the Minister prepared to examine how the alarming results of this European research relate to the Dutch context? And does the Minister agree with us that combating violence, of any kind, against women's representatives plays an important role in improving the representation of women in politics? Mr President, I do not have to tell you that this is urgently needed. Where a number of Cabinets ago the number of women in the Chamber was still 65, we have now fallen to 49. That is not very representative of a representative democracy. 100 years after Suze Groeneweg was the first woman to sit in this Chamber and was laughed at when she took the floor, we regret to say that women are still under-represented at the top of business, science, the media and here in politics, and that some men still feel it is necessary to sneer when it comes to emancipation. We must also note that, as Mr Westerveld rightly pointed out, not only the business community, but unfortunately also the authorities in education remain the domain of older white men. There are very small steps taken, but unfortunately also as many steps back. Or as one of my students said the other day, it's not really a story to be very happy about, is it, ma'am? No, it certainly isn't. And that's a shame, because with more diversity in the top organizations are remarkably performing better. So my question is: what will the Minister do to reverse the tide and ensure that every woman is not only safe but also seen and heard? What will the Minister do to ensure better representation of women in politics and governance? Does she agree that her colleagues in other departments have an important role to play in this? Does she address them to this, too? Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about equal opportunities, in education, in work, in politics. Because whoever you are, wherever you are, everyone has to be sure that you can get the best out of yourself, not because you have to, but because it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u494	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u495	Mr. Chairman. What a wonderful education sector we have! I thought: let me start with this debate. We have discussed many problems and bottlenecks over the past year and again today, but let us not forget how much beautiful work is going on every day in all these schools in the Netherlands and how rich we are with our educational system, in which parents and students have the freedom to choose the school that suits their beliefs. Internationally, we still score high. The level of VMBO students is still rising. Given the excellent reputation of Dutch MBO abroad, our system is seen as a realistic example for other EU countries to follow. Those are achievements to be proud of. Of course, there are also concerns, but let us not forget that we have a beautiful education sector and perhaps even more importantly that our young people are internationally very happy and happy with their lives. Mr. Chairman. I think it matters very much how we talk about education here in Parliament. The tone we choose resonates in the country, as I hear from teachers and teachers. So let us make sure that tone is positive. It doesn't help to put all school administrators away as a lousy overhead, where money lingers. It doesn't help to keep yelling that the public sector is on fire. There are so many wonderful people working in education who have the heart in the right place, that these kind of commonplaces are failing in education. Let us take as an example teachers, school leaders and school administrators and their commitment to the future of our children. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet therefore puts the education sector firmly in the spotlight. It is the largest growth item in the budget. Teachers in primary school get a lot of pay. Work pressure equipment has already been mentioned. There's gonna be an extra 100 million for technical vmbo. There's a lot of extra money going to small schools. I'm thinking of the extra investment in research and science. But I am also thinking, for example, of the bill recently sent by Minister Slob to the Chamber which further enhances the freedom of education. And I am also thinking of anchoring the GVO/HVO in the Education budget. I have a question about the latter, GVO/HVO, by the way. The budget starts next year with 12 million for 2019. The sector will then have to come up with a plan to limit the increase in the budget to 2% per year. According to the Ministry, the budget will increase to 15 million in 2025. But if you take 2% increase a year, you're not at 15 million in 2025, but at 13 and a little, 13.8 so to speak. How exactly did the Minister mean this calculation? I'm not getting out of there yet. Is this the hidden math test for MPs where the minister wants to see which of the MPs has noticed that the sum is wrong or do I just not get it? Mr. Chairman. There are three issues I would like to address specifically: one, parental involvement and the human dimension in education, two, the importance of craftsmanship and good technical education and three, the well-being of students given the pressure placed on them. First of all, the parent involvement. It has been shown that children from involved parents do better at school. That it still matters where your cradle stands is not the district, education or government. Parental involvement is the main indicator for children's school success. It is therefore important that parents and teachers stand shoulder to shoulder when it comes to children's education and development. Recently a wonderful manifesto was launched: Together we are school. I was allowed to kick off the campaign in Hoogezand. I saw a good example of parental involvement: family class. Parents who want to and who can do so, come one morning a week to their children in class to help them, to be so literally involved in practice and to see how their child actually does it in school. That's a little more than a ten-minute conversation. Such initiatives may form part of a broader approach to align youth aid and education and to prevent young people from getting into a forest with aid programmes. Family class is a simple concept and appears to play an important role in enabling children to flourish in education and to avoid problems. This is just one example of how the theme of parental involvement can be put into practice. The coalition agreement also contains warm words about parental involvement. I am very interested in the way in which this point is worked out. Can the Minister say more about this? I would particularly like to know more about the concept of family class. Does the Minister see opportunities to make this more widely known and to promote that this concept is more grounded, if schools so wish? For the Christian Union, it is essential that there is room for human size and small scale. Small schools are often innovative schools. Teachers actually feel ownership and then have more fun in their work. But for small schools, the burden of accountability is sometimes disproportionate. It is actually the same problem as with SMEs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is in the process of developing an SME test designed to assess in new laws and regulations what is practical and useful for SMEs and what is not. Isn't that also a good idea when it comes to accountability by school boards? The risk there is also that we are burdening small schools with a great burden of accountability. I can imagine that for large school boards, but for small boards it is often disproportionate and sometimes not very useful. Can the Minister look at this? My second topic is craftsmanship and technical education. Two years ago I submitted my own initiative paper The Golden Hands of the Netherlands. The subject of craftsmanship and technical education is also high on the agenda of this cabinet. This attention is therefore urgently needed, because in almost all sectors the call for professionals is very high. This calls for a re-evaluation of vocational education and the enthusiasm of young people for science and technology. It also makes a great deal of difference with what tone we are talking about here in the Chamber. So I don't believe it helps to give MBOs a title. That's exactly what makes you suggest that a title matters, and that it determines your appreciation. I cannot say it more striking than an MBO said it himself: we do not need a title, because we really can do something. Mr. Chairman. At the VMBO I ask for attention for the lectures. These offer a training course for young people after primary school, in which they already receive many vocational training courses from the age of one. I call on the Minister to take account of the intensive practical education that is given at these colleges, i.e. for the secondary school system, in the new financing model for secondary education, which we are still discussing. Mr. Chairman. In the training of professionals, good contact between the business community and the profession field is essential on the one hand and the school on the other. We must make everything possible and remove barriers to training professionals. So we need to focus on side-influx, temporary posting, circular careers. That hybrid teachership is well below the magnifying glass of the MBO Council, VNO, SMB Netherlands. When does the Minister see what rules or barriers can be removed and what incentives will be taken? I think this is a matter of urgency. I'm thinking of opportunities to tax-enhancing hybrid teaching. There is already a Wbso scheme which allows companies to apply for reductions in pay and social security contributions for staff working in research and development. We can extend that scheme to education: R&D&D. How does the Minister feel about this? And is she prepared to explore the possibilities of this together with the Secretary of State for Finance? I will also make this come back in my contribution next week on the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third topic: student welfare. That is a subject that concerns me. RIVM has found in its recent report Public Health Future Exploration 2018 that more and more students are experiencing stress. There is also the Joint Ambition Student Welfare. Unfortunately, the Minister and the institutions do not go beyond the fact that, in the context of quality agreements, colleges and universities can focus on student guidance, for example through intensive guidance by, for example, student psychologists. I believe that the Minister is not sufficiently implementing the adopted Bruins/Asante motion of February 2017, which calls on the government to jointly come up with an action plan to ensure that good and easily accessible psychological care is provided at each institution. Since February 2017, I have been waiting for the Minister's answer on how this is being implemented, but I have to say that I am somewhat disappointed with the answer. Can the Minister state whether there is good and easily accessible psychological assistance at each institution? The motion was still about universities and colleges, but I actually want to extend the question to the MBO, where this issue is also increasingly raised. From many points of view, the call for the scale of the performance pressure and psychological complaints among students sounds good. After all, without a clear picture of the situation, it is extremely difficult to monitor how the situation is progressing and what policy measures will increase or reduce the performance pressure of young people in the future. The latest national figures date from 2012. Is the new RIVM research going to provide more clarity or is a separate national study of performance pressure and psychological complaints among students, as advocated by ISO and LSVb? Mr. Chairman. To conclude: let's give education peace, space and regularity. More space for schools, more peace for schools and a learning government, which ensures confidence and stability and which proudly radiates to the profession. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u496	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u497	I like the subject, because stress and burn-out among young people and students are a big problem. Last year I also drew attention to this in the budget debate. Together with Mr Futselaar, I have tabled a motion asking the government to investigate this: calls on the government to investigate high workload, stress and burn-out complaints among students and students. The Christian Union did not vote in favour of our motion at that time. I would therefore like to ask Mr Bruins what has changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u498	We did not vote in favour of this motion because there was already a commitment that this would be looked at. Since February 2017, I have been waiting for the answer from the Minister at the time and then the current Minister. A few days ago, we received the letter on accessibility. There's the answer in there. The answer is that there will be further research and that this research will be carried out by RIVM. What I am still wondering is whether that is the answer to my adopted motion of February last year or whether a separate inquiry is needed. To this extent, I agree with the message given by Mrs Westerveld during the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u499	After a year of getting right is also right. I am standing here because I can tell Mr Bruins what the Minister's response will be, because I went back to him last year. That reaction was quite clear at the time: this is a matter between the students and the institutions. Perhaps Mr Bruins can now announce what he will do if he receives such an answer to his question, because that saves him in the second term. So, what does he think of that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u500	Then I shall go back to the Minister and tell him why an approved motion is not being carried out. I think that is a subject worth discussing between Parliament and government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u501	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u502	Mr. Chairman. This year two themes for me: climate and sustainability. After me, my colleague Wassenberg will make another contribution about the BPRC. Mr. Chairman. The youth no longer tolerates adults ruining their future. Young people from different countries are coming to claim their future. That's right. A good example of this is the climate strike. Inspired by the Swedish Greta Thunberg and fueled in the Netherlands by our youth organisation PINK! Was the question simple: does our future interest you? For this reason alone, I am asking this question to both ministers: what did you think of the climate strikes? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of climate, the government sees the climate agreement as a phasing-out scenario for the fossil industry. That is the same fossil industry that has been doing everything for years to prevent its inevitable dismantling, first by manipulating structural knowledge about climate change and then by influencing education with misleading information. The example and now also the symbol of this deception has become the Generation Discover Festival of Shell, which has boycotted dozens of primary schools and which is not subsidised by the municipality of The Hague thanks to the work of Fossil-Free Education and many others. Just before the recess, I took a look at Shell's teacher's inspirational afternoon at the festival, which I had applied for as a member of the House of Representatives, but also as a teacher, which I am. And I wasn't welcome. That's pretty special. Does the Minister share my surprise? Would the educational inspection also be denied access to such a session? If so, on what grounds? I'd like a response from the Minister. What I can't understand is what Shell tells teachers could have been decided. I don't think the ministers understand that either, but if that's different, I'd like to hear it. The contrast can hardly be greater with the work being done under the banner of the curriculum review, a subject on which we are very critical. Well, that's supposed to be public record. But while part of the Dutch educational content is designed behind the closed doors of the fossil industry, the development sessions of curriculum.nu take place happily in all openness. With several colleagues I visited sessions in Amersfoort and Wageningen, where sustainability as a connection theme has itself emerged. What a passion for education, for youth and for the future, looking for that peace and space to spend more time on students! Or, as Rutger Bregman said in his wonderful interview in class.be: less efficient education is better education. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to further support the participants in the development sessions. What is the Minister going to do to preserve existing energy and positive energy even after the latest development sessions? I'd like a response. It is very good to note that the acceptance measurement is automatically built in. Finally, I would like to zoom in on an education where the peaceful revolution is literally in front of bragging, and that is chef's training. The green deal Sustainable Food consumption in 2014-2015 was the prelude to a beautiful programme of SustainableDoor and Dutch Cuisine, which focuses on the sustainability of the chef's programmes. The goal is to speed up the much-needed protein transition with chefs training. That process has not yet been completed, because in practice many chefs' trainings always go through many kilos of meat and fish. Why should we not equip the chefs of the future much better and more extensively with the beautiful vegetarian and vegetable dishes that will be on the menu of the future? What possibilities does the Minister see for a further acceleration in achieving vegetarian and plant-based standards as future-proof on all chef's training courses? Is it prepared to examine in its ministry how this type of chef's training can be created? Mr President, my colleague Mr Wassenberg will now move on to the next subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u503	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, also on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the minister sees me, she'll know it's about the BPRC. And that's right. I regret to speak again today about the experiments that are still taking place in the monkey animal centre BPRC. In March 2016, the Chamber adopted a motion to reduce tests on non-human primates in the BPRC and research centres to zero. It was also requested to have the plan ready for this at the end of 2016 for the then budget treatment of OCW. We are now two budgets and two years ahead and little has been done, let alone results. However, the number of monkey trials in the BPRC has increased rather than decreased. However, the number of tests with deadly outcome on monkeys has risen to record heights and we did get undercover images from the BPRC of festive animal caregivers in monkeys who came out of experiments or who got registration numbers tattooed on their chests. The Minister decided not to ask for the phase-out plan, as the motion asked, but instead to let the BPRC do so, as the performer of the tests on monkeys. No reduction to zero, as requested by the motion, but only a reduction of 40%. Does the Minister intend to take back the direction of the phasing-out if the plan of the BPRC is insufficient? In addition, the subsidy for the BPRC is not reduced either. In any case, over the next five years, the BPRC will receive almost EUR 10 million of funding according to the budget. That is not consistent with the agreed phasing-out. The Minister defends this by pointing out the need for research into life-threatening diseases, but half of monkey research in the Netherlands is basic scientific research. That's not a study of life-threatening diseases. That really falls into a different category. I'm not making that up. I refer to the report of the Rathenau Institute, which looked at it on behalf of the Ministry. "From monkey to better" is the name of the investigation. However, the Minister undertook to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2019 about the financial consequences of the phasing-out plan to be drawn up. Can the Minister promise that a reduction in the subsidy will be one of those consequences? Can it promise that there will be no more money for basic scientific research on monkeys and can it also promise that the money released will be spent on animal-free research? It's gonna take a lot of extra money for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u505	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u506	Thank you, Mr President. On this late evening, I would like to begin by congratulating both directors. I would like to congratulate them on the 100th anniversary of the Ministry of Education and Science, sometimes under other names, but this year that ministry exists for 100 years. This has everything to do with the pacification that was agreed in 1917 and the effect that was given to the Constitution on this issue, namely freedom of education. Mr. Chairman. As a historian, I always tend to put together the differences between 1918 and 2018. Then we had one minister in Education and now we have two ministers in Education. This is immediately obvious; that is a considerable difference. But I can also honestly, in all the changes that have been there of course in name and so on, not so strangely discover many differences. The Prime Minister of Education was Mr De Visser. It belonged to a Christian-historical house. The current Minister for Basic and Advanced Education, Minister Slob, is from the Christian Union. When you compare "Christian-Historical Union" with "Christian Union" only the "Historical" falls out, you think. That is a bad sign, but it turns out to be not so bad, because that historical awareness is even personally embodied in the minister, since he is a historian. So the historical awareness of that ministry seems to be in order. This is also a bit evident from the beautiful anniversary book which both these ministers have published and which I would like to mention, generally free. That is a wonderful characterization of how education is organized in the Netherlands and of what the essence of education is. I thank them for that gift and I would like to congratulate them again on this anniversary. If you go through that book, it also turns out that the leadership of that ministry was not reserved for ministers of Christians' homes, ministers of Christian political parties. Almost all the political colours have left their mark in the last century. The effects of this famous Article 23 over the years have also taken account of the changes in society. I'm not quite done yet, Mr. Chairman, but my friend Van Meenen would like to interrupt. I wouldn't want to let that privilege slip away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u507	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u508	I too, of course, see the agreements between Minister De Visser, whom I did not personally know, and Minister Slob, but I think there is another minister. Isn't it a huge difference that there's a female minister now? That was unthinkable 100 years ago, wasn't it? How does Mr Bishop look at this wonderful development?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u509	Let me put it this way: the fact that I did not mention this as a difference may give away how much I take it for granted, but perhaps that is a wrong answer in your ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u510	No, that's a wonderful answer. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u511	Okay. I also very much appreciate the presence of Minister Van Engelshoven. Mr. Chairman. Article 23 is not just in the Ministry's genes. Through the involvement of all political directions, Article 23 of the Constitution is also deeply rooted in our society as a whole. I should like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude. This article allows parents and children to receive what is very important to them, namely good education that is in keeping with their deepest beliefs. And yet it doesn't speak for itself. Article 23 deserves constant concern, both in relation to public education and in relation to special education. The SGP very much appreciates that the government and the directors take this duty of care seriously. There is, for example, a legislative proposal to renew the rules for the establishment of schools. We are still discussing this in detail, but when I read through it, the impression remains that the principle adopted 100 years ago as a starting point is actually being taken back to an important extent. And there are quite a few hooks and eyes to that, but we'll get back to that. I'll let that rest. Mr. Chairman. I should like to mention four other issues which I would like to focus on. First of all, I call it public education. Public education must be given in accordance with the Constitution, while respecting everyone's religion and beliefs. The SGP notes that it is going to wring here. The minister indicated earlier that he has no insight into the facts, but the report of the Culture Foundation under Vuur shows that public schools also organise excursions to the mosque and that classes kneeled in prayer. I did not find the answer to the questions raised earlier reassuring and unsatisfactory. The SGP can very well imagine that parents have great difficulty with this. In such cases, the public school should be a refuge for parents. And the law seems to be failing here. It is only arranged that parents can make a request, but not that they are entitled to a replacement activity if, for example, the mosque visit is contrary to their conscience. You may find it strange that I am arguing for the importance of public education, but this does affect the essence of public education. That is why I ask the Minister whether he also believes that a supplement to the law on public education is simply necessary on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u512	The VVD also asked questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u513	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u514	We have received the Minister's answer that increased monitoring is difficult, but that thanks to the government agreement we can keep our finger on the pulse. My question to you is whether you are not reassured by the Minister's answer that we are going to see how we can better shape enhanced supervision. Because I think that is the intention of the Minister and of course I am going to judge him first and I am going to hold him to. You don't have enough faith in that? Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u515	No, I think it would be a step forward if there were tighter supervision on that point. I do wonder how this supervision will be organised, because it can only be done afterwards and then it has already taken place. That is why I prefer to take care of it here. Look, normally the school determines the curriculum and his parents and students are obliged to join. But precisely in the specific situation of public education, in which it can abrade at this point, I would like to make the right to make a request, the right to take the decision and demand that there be an alternative assignment. So I think that's a matter of care. It is just that step forward that ensures the character of public education all the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u516	In conclusion. I think this is a very interesting way of thinking by Mr Bishop. I am also particularly interested in Minister Slob's response to this part. Perhaps we should go a step further than we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u517	Thank you. Yes, we continue to look for an adequate solution to ensure this. Mr. Chairman. A second point I had in relation to public education was religious education, but the colleague of the Christian Union has already referred to it. I would like to announce that I have tabled an amendment to that effect, with the aim of giving the CSR and the CSR in public education a real chance to get off to a good start by providing adequate funding. That's too shady right now. It's all just not right. So it's gonna take a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u518	Let's talk about the mosque visit. You're worried about public schools, but why shouldn't we extend them to Christian schools? Because it is precisely the PKN schools and the Roman Catholic schools that run down the thresholds of the mosques, so I can give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u519	Yes. Well, I can really understand that feeling, and this question, too. Thank you for that. The system as we have it in the Netherlands places the responsibility for public education firmly on the government. The responsibility for the Christian schools, for the special schools, with their own boards, lies with the competent authority. That makes it a lot harder to say as a government: you have to meet these requirements. At the same time, I can imagine that in the supervision there are indeed questions about this in the sense of: you are a Christian school, so what does that mean for participation in prayer rituals in a mosque, if that is the case? It is therefore virtually more difficult to prescribe this from the government, but that is inherent in the dual system we have known since 1917.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u520	I realize it's a lot harder. But we're the House of Representatives here, so basically we can do anything. So it may be difficult, but if we all wanted to, we could also extend it to special education. However, having said that, what we could do is go one step further and ask: why should we bring vulnerable schoolchildren into contact with an ideology of totalitarian traits that in no way relates to our Constitution, our freedoms, our ideas of equality between men, women, gay, heterosexual, believer, dissipate and so on? Then why not go one step further and say: let's please stop completely? Schoolchildren should not be presented with stories and fairy tales in such a hypocritical way of an ideology that is many times worse than they will ever suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u521	Let me speak straight out of my heart. I would like all children to come into contact with the Gospel, the Bible and the Bible message. But I wouldn't want to impose that. What is the case is that as a young person you also have to deal with the presence of other groups. In my opinion, it is good to bring them in a responsible way. This does not include participation in all kinds of religious rituals, but taking note of them. That's why I wouldn't want to ban the visit to a synagogue, a church or a mosque as such. That would go too far for me. It can be very well integrated into the entire curriculum of citizenship, provided that it is carefully designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u522	My conclusion is that you want to continue to use that wonderful article 23 for an intolerant ideology, which is full of hatred of the Jews, hatred of women and the feeling of superiority towards the own group There are other groups in this respect, but I am talking about Islam here. You want to continue to use that beautiful article 23 for this kind of group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u523	Well, yeah, look. "Want to continue to use for these kinds of groups," you say. That is not to promote these groups, but to bring children in a responsible way. As an adult, we understand that. So it's too short to say this is not allowed. I would just as much welcome children from a public school in a church building where they may never come. I would like to inform them about what is happening there to bring them into touch with those aspects; and in a synagogue idem. So it's not about propagating that, but socially you're just dealing with these groups. That's what these kids are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u524	It is not entirely clear to me what Mr Bishop proposes. Does he want to give parents the right to always choose whether to send their children to a religious institution? Is he saying that certain actions can't be done, for example, that when you enter a synagogue, you have the right not to put on a yarmulke? Or that you don't do a certain ritual? Or a host... ? I'm not quite sure what you're suggesting. Could you tell us a little bit more about this, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u525	Sure, I thought I'd made that clear. Our objection is not so much against the visit to that institution as such. I hope that I have just made that clear in the little interplay debate with Mr Beertema. It does object to participation in religious rituals. And I don't understand taking the shoes off underneath to get into that mosque, because you can still see that as a polite form, i.e. a yarmulke. The images that you sometimes see on the internet, which have been researched and made an overview of, of children who recite the prayer text in prayer posture, I would like to give parents the right to say: ho, this is a step too far. Hence, the schools that choose to visit a mosque will also have to be careful when setting up that entire program.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u526	What's the reason you're suggesting that? Where does that come from that you actually think that's not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u527	I have made a very conscious reference to the constitutional article which stipulates that education is to be given in public schools with respect for everyone's religion and beliefs. It is therefore not possible for children to be forced to participate in a particular religious act, whereas parents have opted for a public school. To avoid misunderstandings, this also applies to church buildings. Suppose a closing prayer would be prescribed there, then the same applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u528	Finally, it seems to me to be a little narrow-minded in the sense that I think it is important that we train our young people and children a little more broadly and show what others are doing, so that the understanding gets bigger again and again. As a young boy I also came to church and I understood very well when I rode my bike with the girls towards the Driestar in Gouda, from Schoonhoven, that those girls quickly took off their jeans and put on a skirt, because it was very cold, but that was prescribed and I understood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u529	Usually that happened in the toilet room of those schools, so not outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u530	True, but I had to choose between the pity I had, because it was very cold from Haastrecht or Vlist, 45 minutes on the bike. Then they had to go to school with you, because you've been there a while director, change for a while. I thought that was weird, but I got it. In any case, that brought mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u531	This seems to me to be a long way from the discussion. I would like to have that discussion once, but to do so now when dealing with the budget, about the clothing policy of certain schools, seems to me to go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u532	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u533	It doesn't touch the point I was trying to make. Too bad I missed that in this way. The second point concerns small schools. In the Netherlands small schools have always had a valuable place, but it becomes much more difficult for those schools to take this place. That is why I came up with an action plan last year to help small schools out of the fire, or at least to support them. The SGP considers it a missed opportunity for the Minister not to use the Chamber's call to save small schools a mandatory privacy officer. Especially small schools can spare that obligation as a toothache. There are a lot of simpler measures that can guarantee privacy at least as well. At the point of the vog, explanation of behavior, I see a new opportunity. The Minister of Health has sent a letter stating that the vog will be free for all volunteers working in a dependency relationship, including schools. Can the Minister confirm that volunteers in schools are also covered by the free vog and that there is no need for red tape for this? What is the Minister going to do to help schools invest in sustainability, for example when it comes to red tape in returning energy? Does he want to record this with his colleagues and speak through it in order to arrive at an appropriate approach? The third point concerns the quality of teachers. The ability of teachers has been a cornerstone of our Constitution for centuries. Mr President, I suspect that Mr Kwint would still like to interrupt on this subject of small school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u534	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u535	I saw it in his craving face, and I think it's very handsome, at almost 11:30 p.m.; that eagerness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u536	Very briefly, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u537	My craving knows no time. Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the commitment of the SGP to the importance of small schools. We may not always agree on the impact, but the importance of these small schools within such a community is something that you cannot easily put aside. How does the SGP view this in view of the cabinet's intention, for example, to delete the merger test?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u538	We voted in favour of the removal of the merger test, because in our opinion it involves a great deal of red tape, but has little added value in itself. At the same time, I agree with Mr Kwint that it is of no benefit to anyone that large, cumbersome schools should be created. I often see a kind of cooperatives, domes of schools, in which each school has its own direction and has its own short lines, but at the same time also places certain tasks, which otherwise are relatively heavy on that school itself, in the dome. I think that is a very desirable development. As far as I'm concerned, it can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u539	Finally, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u540	Of course, no one will be against a shared salary administration and that kind of thing. Everyone also agrees that the current merger test has hooks and eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u541	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u542	We are going to see the bill, but doesn't Mr Bisschop share my fear that this is precisely the movement that we wanted to turn into the MBO when we introduced the merger test, which we were too late in politics, slowly dragging into primary education and further education through a back door?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u543	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u544	No. I think other factors are also involved. That merger test was introduced in conjunction with a policy aimed at scaling up. That policy has now been revised. So I have good hope that we will not actually need this fusion test anymore and that we will be able to achieve manageable and desirable developments in the educational world. But if that is not the case, then I am your husband to correct certain undesirable developments. But I am confident that a good form can be found for it. Thank you for your questions. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the quality of teachers, a cornerstone enshrined in the Constitution. A strong point is always that there was attention to the need that lived in the school. What is needed in the classroom and in the school to achieve good teaching by good teachers? And that's where the teachers' register went wrong. The register has been imposed too much from above and from outside. It is important that the Minister makes a pass in the place. And yet his letter shows the suggestion that in the long term we will continue with the flawed system that is now in the law. Why does the Minister choose this course? Among other things, the opinion of the Education Council shows that the teacher register has fundamental structural errors. The SGP really wants to make a fresh start. The SGP also wants to clarify quickly to the schools what needs to be done. They are called upon to provide personnel data. Is that supposed to be now? Is there enforcement? There needs to be new clarity. A new course should not be burdened with the old system. I can only announce that I would like to submit an initiative law as soon as possible to remove the teacher register from existing legislation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the last point is the troublesome rules. In recent years, several Cabinets have said that our education system has a balance between freedom and accountability. The autonomy of schools was precisely designated as a success factor for the quality of our education. The SGP was therefore surprised that the cabinet now suddenly says that there is too much autonomy. What's with the switch? The cabinet recognizes that we are going to impose heavier burdens on the boards first, but that we want to reduce the burden on the balance. What teacher or director believes this is going to happen in practice? Schools are still sighing under controlism. You can't make a work visit and don't speak to a director or board member without always getting this signal, even if you don't ask for it. The controlism, the yoke of control pressure, for example by........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Why is this not enough and is there a need for additional burdens? The SGP hears from schools that a benchmark mainly produces a paper world, which says little about the individual situation per school. We may solve a political problem, but the schools are screwed. Mr. Chairman. 100 years of Ministry of Education, thank you for celebrating. At the same time, it is an incentive to stay alert. If we want to keep celebrating anniversaries, we will have to be constantly focused on taking care of Article 23. This means paying attention to the wishes of parents and pupils, standing up for good teachers and limiting political plans. I wish the rulers much wisdom on the way to the next anniversary under God's rich blessing. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u545	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u546	Mr President, thank you. Is everyone hanging in there? You're in "K" too? Then I'll start soon. Mr. Chairman. The best possible education for all children. And what does that have to do with it? That is equality of opportunity, and that is accessibility. That accessibility is now under pressure. Unfortunately, this fits in with the broad policy of this cabinet. This cabinet makes healthcare less accessible with higher premiums and high own risk. Access to legal aid is further restricted by higher own contributions. The social lawyer is being destroyed because there are ridiculously low fees against this work. Unfortunately, even education is becoming less and less accessible. This is mainly due to the loan system. That fits the trend of the shift. The Education at a Glance report shows that the government pays less and more and more people pay more and more. In the Netherlands, many have fought for an accessible education that reduces differences rather than increases them. And we have to keep doing that. A country in which everyone can develop and get the best out of themselves. Mr. Chairman. Little by little, the facilities for students have been reduced. Take Rutte, our prime minister. He himself could study for seven and a half years with a beautiful scholarship. Well, then there's room for you to develop wider. That space isn't here anymore. You get a four-year scholarship for almost all programmes. This threatens the risk that education will deliver ready-made cogs more and more quickly for the e.g. the Netherlands rather than critically thinking citizens. In addition, every generation of students in politics nowadays receive a free life lesson, a cynical life lesson that literally and figuratively turns out to be expensive. And that lesson of life is: never believe the promises of the government, because under the guise of all kinds of beautiful talk and promises, savings are always being made. That's what we're seeing again in that antisocial loan system. Euphemistically, we call that an advance, but that's just a lie. It's just a loan. Let's just call it that. Designed by the PvdA and the VVD and made possible by D66 and GroenLinks and of course with all kinds of beautiful political promises. Let's take a look at these promises. Promise 1, the money would go back to education completely to improve quality. What is reality? The money goes back only partially. Almost 200 million will not be returned, and some of the money will only end up in education in 2026. Then the quality. What does Pieter Duisenberg, president of the university domes, say about one of the people who introduced it into the previous cabinet? He said yesterday in the newspaper: we should be in debt if universities and the quality impulse remains out. Yeah, if you're in another place, you're preaching another message. So that conclusion doesn't add up either. Mr. Chairman. Access to education would not be compromised. That was one of the promises. We see that the number of children with parents in the welfare and lower incomes that flows directly from the HAVO to the HBO is 9 percentage points lower than before the introduction of the loan system. This is what the CBS says in collaboration with the University of Amsterdam. So that conclusion doesn't add up either. Apart from these unfulfilled promises, students suffer even more pain. Because of their student debt, of course, they can get a much harder mortgage. If they get that mortgage, they will lose tens of thousands of euros, while house prices are rising enormously. The question is how to get a house in that difficult market. And the government is doing something about that now? Yeah, they're doing something about that. They're doing a little bit on top of it, because according to the government, the interest rate on the student debt is too low. Now the government wants to change it up. More pain for the students. Thanks to the CDA, the Christian Union, the VVD and the education party D66. You must want to hurt yourself very badly as a student, to vote for the D66 education party. I have a specific practical question for the Minister: can the Minister once again guarantee that a study debt can never lead to a BKR registration? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the shortage of teachers. That is a very serious problem. Many speakers have already addressed this in the debate. The government has a good and comprehensive plan of action. Compliments for that. I also asked for space and time for the poor neighbourhoods in the AO Teachers, because the pressure is much higher there. Researchers point out that this means that schools with many migrant children suffer even more from the shortage of teachers. Just before, we had another VAO together. I have also tabled a motion on this. I would like to ask the Ministers how specific measures can contribute to the solution for this group. And what does that customization look like? Mr. Chairman. Then diversity in education. In Rotterdam, 70% of pupils in primary school have a migration background, but teachers see this diversity less and less. Do the ministers agree that diversity is important? And do they listen to their own official, Mr Benrida, programme manager "Equal Opportunities" at OCW? For he says: "Diversity unites the forces, and brings together differences and views. Diversity increases the resolution capacity of teams. Moreover, not insignificantly, it enhances a good reflection of the street in the staff room, and the sense of home of teachers, pupils and parents." My question is: what are the ministers going to do in concrete terms to increase the diversity in the staff rooms? Is the Minister also going to work with targets or are we going to keep it, as so often, with standard, trained indignation? Will they also take this way of thinking into account when implementing citizenship education? Because the formulation of the standards and values that we consider essential in the Netherlands, we are all going together, aren't we? I now feel more and more that one group considers its own values to be better, and likes to impose them on the other group. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a move to promote diversity in higher education. Last year, early January, the former Minister Jet Bussemaker released €5 million for a hundred additional female professors. Rightly so, because the academic summit also had to become more diverse and a good reflection of society. In this academic summit there are not only far too few women, but also far too few professors with a non-Western migration background. It doesn't reflect society at all. That is why I would like to call for additional professors with a non-Western migration background. I assume the Minister is very enthusiastic about this. I just see it happening. Mr. Chairman. In the context of education, I'm gonna finish with a story before we're all gonna go to sleep. Once upon a time, there was a girl named Leila. Leila lived in a country that was proud of itself. It was a rich country, where education was predominantly good and where it was said that everyone had equal opportunities. Leila himself lived in a neighborhood where no rich people lived. You know it, such a district where Mr Dijkhoff would like to punish people twice as hard. She sat on what they called "a black school," even though not all children were black. However, there were only two white children in her class, and strangely enough, almost all teachers were white. Leila was top of her class, along with Floris-Jan. That made her and Floris-Jan mates. Floris-Jan's parents called themselves idealists. His father was an artist, and his mother was from GroenLinks. When Leila was playing Floris-Jan, his parents always started talking about freedom. Freedom was the most important thing and they themselves were champions of freedom. And when Floris-Jan played with Leila, her mother never said that much. She used to make delicious snacks. And while she and her mother were praying for ten minutes, Floris-Jan sometimes ate the whole bowl, so much so he liked those cookies. And when they went to the mosque on a Friday night, Floris-Jan wanted to come. He thought it was super interesting. The imam had taken a moment for him, and showed him how to pray. The same evening his mother called Leila's mother: Floris-Jan was no longer allowed to go with Leila. That's how she lost her mattie. A few weeks later, Floris-Jan was taken from school by his parents and sent to a white school. At the end of the year was the Cito test. Leila scored 546 points, the highest in the class. Yet teacher Irene thought she should go to the havo instead of the vwo. She said it was safer. There were more people of her own kind there. That was better suited to her behavior via the WhatsApp she still had contact with Floris-Jan. He made 543 points. To her surprise he was allowed to go to the vwo. His parents had insisted and used the excuse that he had been to a black school. The school would have gone along with that. Mr. Chairman. Leila would like to know from the ministers how that is possible. How come someone who gets 546 points doesn't get to the vwo, and another one who gets 543 points, does? Do the ministers agree that this is fair? She herself would like the advice of a teacher never to be lower than what the Cito score indicates. At least that's fair. Leila is very curious about what the ministers think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u547	I have a very simple solution for Mr... Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u548	Azarkan is the name.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u549	I'll give it to you. If only we had just kept that Cito test leading. We wouldn't have depended on that advice from the school. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u550	The proposal we are making is that the school's advice can never be lower than the Cito opinion. So that's what's leading. So you can correct up, but not down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u551	In the past, the Cito test was leading. Who decided that both the kids were just going to the vwo. That was much better for the children you mean. From an emancipatory point of view, that was the very best solution. And now we've lost that because of all the parties here, who had to get rid of it if necessary, and who, if necessary, had to make the school lead. And that's just a big disaster for emancipation. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u552	I think it's a good thing that a teacher can't advise less than the Cito score. For me, the Cito score doesn't always have to be leading. But if someone gets a Cito score that justifies going to the vwo, a teacher can't say you have to go to the vmbo or to the havo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u553	Thank you. This was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-15.u554	On Thursday we will continue with the answers from both ministers. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the ministers, the staff, the messengers, the people who have followed the debate from the gallery or in any other way.
