ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u1	Mr. Van Hattem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This third term has been requested by the PVV Group following the ruling of the court of The Hague in the case of Stichting Meer Democracy against the State on the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. Although the court rejected the claims, the judgment nevertheless contains elements that require explanations from the minister. The judgment states that the Minister of the Interior, represented by the national attorney, stated: "The State points out that, if the claims of More Democracy are followed, a court of law with sufficient safeguards is open to the administrative judge, in which context the administrative judge can rule on the interpretation given by More Democracy to the Revocation Act." According to the ruling, this refers to an apple label decision of the Minister on the basis of Article 6 Act consultative referendum on referendability. According to the state's attorney, and with that the minister, there should be a possibility of legal proceedings. For the system of our law, the repeal law could only apply at the time of publication. Until then, the Minister would have to follow the rules of the still in force Law consultative referendum and therefore decide on referendability. The question to the Minister is therefore whether she will also take that decision and continue to respect the Advisory referendum Act until the publication takes place. Does this also leave open the possibility of an administrative procedure? In order to guarantee this possibility of legal proceedings, we are also tabling a motion. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Van Beek, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Dercksen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien and Mr Kok proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that the Minister in the Lower House stated that it would not take an apple label decision under Article 6 Wrr on the referendability of the repeal law because of the retroactive effect of the repeal law;]] [[that in the judgment on the case of More Democracy against the State of the Netherlands (in this case the Ministry of the Interior) it is stated on behalf of the Minister that "a court of law with sufficient safeguards is open to the administrative court';]] [[that the judgment also confirms that the parties, including the State, are right to assume that the views of More Democracy in a judicial process can be reviewed by the Section;]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the position of the Minister in the case of an open court over a decision or refusal of a decision on referendability with sufficient safeguards appears to be contrary to the view of the Minister in the Second Chamber that, because of the retroactive effect of the repeal law, the adoption of an apple label referendability decision is not at issue;]] [[that this creates uncertainty as to legal certainty;]] [[calls on the Minister to keep the proceedings to the Administrative Court open on a referendability decision on the repeal law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that we would like to put our other motions to the vote. This has to do with the fact that the court rejected the claims in its judgment and that a final judgment has already been given, but the More Democracy Foundation has indicated its intention to take further legal action. So, in view of any appeal, we are going to put the motions to the vote, because they see the entire judicial procedure and not one specific ruling. So far, Chairman, in third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Are there any other Members who would like to speak in the third term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. I do not yet have the text of the motion, but on the basis of the explanatory statement I would like to say two things. One, there is indeed a judge's verdict. I've informed your room of that as agreed. I do not follow Mr Van Hattem's reasoning, because, as a result, this is exactly what we discussed last week with each other. The repeal law provides for retroactive effect. So there is no further separate decision on referendability. Two, we have the legislative process. That's happening right here in this room. There's the judge, too. We have a separation of powers. A judge has ruled. There is still a possibility of appeal. Of course, you can always do that. One doesn't stand in the way of the other. Therefore, I have the motion in front of me now, and I would like to advise against the motion as it has been drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u6	In short, Mr. Van Hattem, because you've also had a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u7	Sure, but this calls for a response. I hear the minister say she's deceiving the motion. The referendability decision does not need to be taken. The repeal law has retroactive effect, but until the law enters into force at the time of publication, the Advisory referendum Act still applies which requires a decision to be taken or a refusal of a decision open to opposition and appeal. That is also the explanation given by the state attorney on your behalf, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, to the court. Do you renounce what has been brought before the court on your behalf?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u8	No, of course not. What I just pointed out was that the decision provides for retroactive effect... Excuse me, in the withdrawal proposal, the bill provides for retroactive effect. It is therefore not necessary to take a decision on that point. That is not in the way of any further judicial process. If someone wishes to appeal, that is possible, also on that part. We've had a discussion about legal effectiveness. The repeal law as such provides that no separate decision is to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u9	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u10	Short. The Minister is confusing two things now. There is indeed an open appeal against this specific court ruling, but that is independent of whether there is a possibility of access to the administrative court on the basis of taking or refusing to take a decision on referendability. That aspect is still valid right up to the moment of withdrawal. The fact that it has retroactive effect does not alter the fact that until then a decision must be taken or a refusal of a decision, which your national attorney has said is open to access to the administrative courts. Isn't it true what your country's attorney claimed in court?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u11	What's not right is what you're saying here. It's actually very simple. There are two trajectories. There is a judge who has made a judgment against which an appeal is still possible. There is also a legislative process. The reasoning I have always maintained here is that the legislative process is separate from the path that runs before the courts. Important in the legislative process is that the repeal law provides for that retroactive effect. At the time when the legislator decides on this repeal law, we also decide on retroactive effect. From that moment on, from the date of ratification, this will be provided for. I don't think there's a problem. That does not alter the fact that the profession is indeed possible. The motion put forward here, I would advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u12	No, Mr. Van Hattem...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u13	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u14	Nothing at all. I told you this was your last interruption. You've had plenty of room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-11.u15	We shall now proceed to the vote.
