ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	We will continue with the discussion of the Foreign Affairs budget today. In fact, then, in his first term, the Minister would answer all the questions put by Members of Parliament yesterday. But before I give him the floor, I would like to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma, who wishes to make a comment on the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. This is indeed because of the votes this afternoon. Yesterday we had a VAO Foreign Affairs Council. I tabled a motion, supported by several colleagues, to which the Minister wished to explain. I just wanted to say two things today. One. The applicants may follow part of that explanation. With what the Minister said about extending Saudi Arabia to all the countries concerned mentioned in the Panel of Experts report, the applicants agree. But we do not want to accept the other explanation of the operative part and it remains as it is. That is what I am saying in view of this afternoon's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. If the Minister wishes to respond, he will of course have the opportunity to do so. I call the Minister, in response to Mr Sjoerdsma's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	Sure. I think it is purely when the Chamber hears my opinion on Mr Sjoerdsma's explanatory statement. I said yesterday that I thought it was very important that the wording used by the Netherlands in the Security Council should be in line with the wording used by the expert panel. After all, it is largely thanks to Dutch initiative that the panel exists, and still exists. Of course, it is also good for the effectiveness of that panel that the Netherlands as a mother nation fits in with its choices. I appreciate the addition that Mr Sjoerdsma has made today, but I note that we are at one point close to each other, namely the mention of all the parties involved. The difference then lies in it, as far as I can judge by now, that the expert panel calls for extreme restraint in arms supplies and that the motion speaks of an arms embargo. And for the reason I have just indicated, do justice to the expert panel and thus also underline the credibility of that panel, I really attach great importance to the exact use of the wording of the expert panel in the Dutch contribution. So no matter how much I appreciate the hand-out, if it stays that way, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	This is not a debate, but it was an order proposal. We are therefore now going to the budget procedure for Foreign Affairs, Room 35000-V.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, although from different political points of view, the Members of Parliament spoke with great passion about foreign policy. I enjoyed that, and that promises quite a lot for today. Because no matter how different we are, there's one thing we agree on here. That is that the security of our citizens must be paramount, that it is a central task of the State and that ensuring that security does not happen automatically. I was somewhat surprised that Mr Van der Staaij yesterday referred to Mr Machiavelli as the great inspiration of the politically reformed current. From Machiavelli I am sure that he was not reformed, but I also know that he has the statement that a common mistake of people is that they do not take into account storms in good weather. Indeed, this still means that peace requires efforts in several areas. Security really requires a lot more than just a well-equipped military device, no matter how important it is. Above all, it is also about preventing war and conflict, and thus chaos and violence. That is where the added value of our diplomats at Foreign Affairs lies. They ensure that we can build an alliance within the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. We do so side by side with old and loyal friends including certainly, even at this time, the United States. If I have to choose from Mr Van der Staaij, I will eventually choose Dutch sobriety, quote "Emus": if you are making new friends, keep the old one in honor. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to the relationship with the United States. At the same time, it is precisely at this time that we must continue to strongly promote the international legal order and human rights. This is an essential raw material for stability and security. At the same time, that doesn't mean we have to or can do anything. I am really in favour of strategic foreign policy in which we dare to make choices to be effective, so make choices where our vital interests lie. Mrs Ploumen thinks that I am too realistic, but I do not see that in any way. It may indeed occur that terrible things happen on a chessboard where you as the Netherlands or as the Netherlands alone cannot take effective steps. Then you have to be realistic about that, too. You must not raise expectations that you cannot live up to, which may confirm your moral right but yield no concrete results. This means that we must also make clear choices in this respect, as we do in the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy. I know that this also builds on a plea that was made by the Scientific Council for Government Policy in 2010, a long time ago, but still very topical. The WRR strongly indicated: look where the vital interests of the Netherlands lie, look where the extended national interests lie, look at specific strengths but try not to be everything for everyone. No V&D for foreign policy. Also the topicality of today, which, of course, concerns developments that could not be foreseen at all in 2010, from Brexit to migration crisis, still calls for that strategic choice to be made. There have been very impressive developments, mentioned by all of you: the new assertive role of Russia, the very confident role of China, the new role of both the United States and the United Kingdom, instability at the southern borders of Europe, and the new developments in cyberspace that Mr Koopmans has explicitly addressed. This is also against the backdrop of crumbling support for multilateral cooperation, precisely the kind of organisations where we could solve many problems for decades. I also share Mr Sjoerdsma's passion for continuing our commitment to multilateral cooperation. All this with ambition, because ambition has brought much to our country. We are proud to take a top position on many international rankings in a wide range of fields. It is therefore very important that by doing the diplomatic work well, we give all those enterprising, innovative, brave people in the Netherlands the space to make this beautiful country even more beautiful. Mr. Chairman. Before I answer the questions asked, I would like to make a comment on Brexit. I am well aware that there were relatively few questions about this yesterday, when we all realise that one of the most important foreign policy developments of this moment, which we speak in London and Brussels, must also be discussed here in The Hague. It is the commitment of myself and my colleagues in the cabinet that the Chamber should receive the information that has just come out in good time and can study it, after which we will have the space to enter into the debate. But I think purity means we're not trying to do that quickly now. That is why I will not go into it in the rest of my speech. What I will deal with are subjects that I have divided into four chapters. I shall begin with the questions that have been raised on the subject of security, both within NATO and within the EU, if they have not yet been answered in writing. The Chamber received an important part in writing last night. Then I come to the questions on human rights. Thirdly, questions that have been asked about specific countries or regions. And finally, all the questions that have been asked about consular issues. First of all, the questions about safety issues. Mr De Roon is concerned about Mr Macron's speech, which I was also allowed to attend. Let me make it clear from the Dutch Government that NATO remains the cornerstone of security for us and that the role of the United States is essential in this. At the same time, we are in favour of strengthening security and defence policy within the European Union. We talked about it extensively the day before yesterday. We must be realistic in this: Europe is unable to provide its own security. After Brexit, non-EU members will bear 80% of the costs within NATO. This underlines the importance of cooperation with the United Kingdom and the United States. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the state of play with regard to the Battlegroups. They've been around for a long time. The Netherlands is currently delivering the core of the EU-Battlegroup with the Benelux partners. That's right, they've never been deployed. In the case of military parts, it is always the question of how sorry you must be that they have not been deployed, but I understand the consideration, because there has indeed been military activity in the context of peacekeeping operations, including on the EU side. If we look at the worrying and rapidly changing security situation and if we share Mr Sjoerdsma's and myself's ambition that the EU should be able to act effectively in that area, then I do not think it is wise to abolish or question this EU Battlegroup. We are going to look very closely at the further development of the EU security plans, but as far as I am concerned, this is going towards an increased impact, always retaining national control over the ultimate commitment of our men and women. I shall now turn to the subject on which Mr De Roon referred: the use of a qualified majority in the European Union's foreign policy. We talked about this earlier this week. I indicated at that time that the Dutch Government is open to this under a number of conditions against the background of that increased insecurity and unrest in the world around us. When it comes to important issues such as the EU's ability to impose sanctions in relation to human rights or cyberwarfare or other violence, one country can now block it. It is not so difficult to separate one country from a Union of 27 countries. Something similar applies to EU statements on human rights issues. On this important issue too, it can be of real value if we can no longer have a blockade of one country there. Something similar could apply to civilian missions. It is still a long way before the EU reaches unanimity on leaving unanimity, but under strict conditions, the Netherlands must be open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr Voordewind wishes to ask a question on a previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Minister said: I have taken note of the statements made by Macron and Merkel on the pursuit of a European defence army. I would like to know what the Minister himself thinks of these statements. Does he intend to comment on this and make critical comments on it? The position of the Dutch Government was and is not to go so far as to move into a European standing army. Strengthening the EU Battlegroups is fine, but not a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	That is also the position of the Dutch Government. We do not want a separate European army. I have outlined in detail in my introductory text that we really need the United States and the United Kingdom for our security. We are therefore in favour of closer European cooperation. It is a real shame how many different weapons systems there are, I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma also mentioned this and how complicated it is to work together. But NATO remains the backbone of our security strategy. A separate European army does not fit in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. Then I hope that I have answered the questions on security and I shall turn to the questions on human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	One question from me, though. I would like to thank the Minister for answering in writing my questions about his commitment to the new weapons of mass destruction: drones, killer robots, that sort of thing. Something about that. It was said that the Netherlands is currently focusing on transparency and export controls and the like of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, unarmed flying vehicles. But that's only a very small part of the problem, because we're also talking about things that you can just buy in the store. We are not just talking about big, helicopter-like things that can be taken into account in an arms export policy. So I'd like to ask the Minister to look into that as well. So it is not just about what countries have but also about what countries and groups have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Koopmans has previously explicitly drawn attention to this issue. He remembers that at that time, I had some doubts about how we can handle this. This is a new and evolving area, as he also describes in his interruption. It goes from specifically made technology that can be used as weapons of mass destruction to existing technology that can be combined into something very dangerous. That is also why I finally promised Mr Koopmans that I would like to come to the Chamber with a number of experts on the type of developments that we are seeing and on what would be an appropriate response. I think it makes sense to take what Mr Koopmans is saying, but I cannot say any more about the content of that reaction, because of the good quality of the reaction that is desired. Then there is the issue of human rights and the rule of law, in the light of the concerns about multilateral cooperation expressed by Mr Sjoerdsma, which I very much share. He specifically asked what the strategy of the Netherlands, together with allies, is to get the United States back into the multilateral treaties and organisations in which they do not participate or participate. I'm gonna walk away from some of them. When it comes to the climate treaty, the Netherlands is convinced that global agreements are crucial. It's a very complicated task, but if you don't do it worldwide, it's going to be extremely difficult to implement. Now the United States has indicated that they want to come back if they get a better deal; that theme is now beginning to look familiar. That means, at least, open to dialogue. This brings me back to the core of the diplomatic handiwork I started with. Then we'll find that dialogue, too. Both myself and my colleagues are putting this on the table in the discussions with our American colleagues, and we are therefore trying to set this up again and again in multilateral organisations. On the one hand, when it comes to the Iran agreement, you will see that we disagree on the value of the nuclear agreement with Iran. We very much regret, together with the European countries, that the United States has stepped out. At the same time, we share with the United States the concerns about Iran's continued role, in its own country in terms of human rights, outside its own country in terms of building a stock of ballistic missiles and its role in, among other things, the conflicts in Syria and Yemen. Here too, we are committed to maintaining the United States as an ally on issues on which we agree. Around the nuclear agreement, we continue to look for ways of revitalising that. We have just discussed the INF Convention in detail. I don't think I need to think about that again. But there too, the core of our commitment is that we want both the US and the Russian Federation to ensure that this is maintained and respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	The development of Iranian ballistic missiles costs enormous money. That's what you do when you have a very specific goal in mind. The only charity I see for that, but perhaps I hear from the Minister something else is that you want to be able to deliver nuclear weapons in a far away place. The Minister also claims to be concerned about Iran's ballistic missiles. The question then is what the Dutch government is doing to prevent these missiles from being developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	Together with other Europse countries, we express our deep concern. We also have the position to enter into this conversation because we are at the same time showing that we want to maintain trade relations in the interests of the people of Iran. Mr De Roon knows my line that you can only be effective in the diplomatic work if you have a broad agenda that makes it interesting for any partner. Also applies to Iran: if your only subject is their indeed very reprehensible ballistic missile programme and you do not have a relationship that is interesting to them at the same time, then it is very doubtful whether you can have a cup of coffee with each other at all. We express our concern, and we have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	But what interesting things does Iran have to offer, which means that you expect them to refrain from designing, developing and expanding their arsenal of ballistic missiles?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr De Roon is now making the Netherlands small. I don't know him like that. If there is anything that strikes me now that I am a foreign minister travelling abroad, it is how much the Netherlands is appreciated. This is really because of what our entrepreneurs, our universities and our people have expertise in areas that are very classic to us, but are of great importance abroad. I refer to agriculture, water management and the whole infrastructure technology. The way in which we organized it here in our own country and the leading role we play on the international playing field are also looked at with awe. This makes us interesting for countries on the basis of the very practical consideration that they have a population to feed and to keep happy. There is therefore no reason to make the Netherlands small.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr De Roon for his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	That's certainly not my purpose. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister. Has Iran, because of the awe they have to bear for us about what we can deliver to them, indicated their willingness to negotiate the ballistic missile programme? Has it indicated that it might not do so if there are enough for them in other areas in the Netherlands or in other Western countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	We have not yet seen any concrete steps, but we discuss them every time. I personally did that at a meeting with my Iranian colleague. We have this opportunity and therefore a lever because we are interesting to them as the Netherlands and as Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	Fourth question, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	So I conclude that there is no movement in the Iranian position on those ballistic missiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	If I or my diplomats would stop using us every time there is no movement in the position of another country, then we would no longer have to debate the budget. It's hard, but it's very worthwhile, so I keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u28	A large number of questions about the international legal order and the role played by the Netherlands have rightly been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u29	On the previous point, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u30	I have a question about the previous point, but not zooming in on one point as Mr De Roon did now. The Minister is peeling it off a little bit. There is room to talk about the climate treaty. As far as Iran is concerned, we agree on part of it, but not part of it. Under the INF Convention, we need to get them back on board. I agree. I think that's good and logical, too. I still wonder how the United States wants to get a better deal on that climate treaty and what their commitment is. But above all, I would like to know how these files are tied together. I am only saying that for a moment because I understand the commitment on the individual dossiers, but I see that the United States is putting all kinds of things aside and then saying: more NATO payments. How do we ensure that we take a step on all these dossiers and are not played against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u31	There are a number of things going on at the same time. There are, of course, developments worldwide and in the United States that can influence the position. These could be very practical issues such as the huge forest fires in California, which also in the US further strengthen the debate on the importance of climate action. At the same time, the United States, of course, is aware that allies can be tricky, and that is what we are often called, but also how important it is to have allies. We have talked about it before: if you look at the world map, you will see that the number of democratic states that share a number of important values, a free market economy and a defence interest is not so great. Losing friends means that the circle of countries you can work with is getting smaller. This awareness is indeed present in many influential people in America. I can see that in conversations of mine. You can broaden it to the fact that you always need alliances. We often have this discussion here in the Chamber. I sometimes mention this: when I press that part, I become less influential on another part. That is also a theme that a country as powerful as the United States realizes, at least many people there. That's what we connect with each other. Nor will we continue to look very consciously for close contacts with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u32	To focus on this, in December we are going back to a NATO meeting. I do not really know at what other level we, as the EU, will be discussing these issues in broad terms with the United States, not just on the Iran deal, separately on the climate treaty or separately on NATO contributions. In what forum, on what occasion are we talking about all these things together, so that we in the European Union can jointly make this a kind of strategic package? For I very much share the general guidelines outlined by the Minister. At the same time, I can see that Trump is waltzing through that a little bit. How does the Minister see that in the coming months something can really come from the European Union to the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u33	We do not have a formal forum for this in the sense of periodic consultations specifically on the EU-US relationship. However, there are fora or forums being created. Mr Kaag has just announced that the Netherlands, in close cooperation with the US, will be the host country of an entrepreneurial forum. So that means that you work well together in an important area and meet again. Last Sunday I was allowed to be in Paris. I think I've been able to talk to Mr Pompeo for an hour. The theme was, of course, the commemoration of that terrible war, but there were a lot of foreign ministers there. There you discuss a lot of things, but also this broad agenda. We keep looking for those opportunities. There too, the Netherlands should not make itself small. We are recognised as a country that plays an important role internationally. We are also seen in the European Union, partly as a result of the Brexit, as a country which is clearly above its weight. As a result, we have the opportunity to raise the broad agenda which Mr Sjoerdsma rightly points out in relation to the US.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u35	The international legal order. Mr Van Helvert asked about the trial and prosecution of ISIS fighters and the interpretation of the motion he had tabled. In this respect, we have been able to take important steps forward. Thanks to the Dutch support, there has recently been an international mechanism, the United Nations Investigative Team for Accountability of Da'esh. This mechanism gathers evidence of the serious international crimes committed by ISIS in Iraq, including possible genocide. That mechanism started a few months ago. The Netherlands also contributes financially to this. The collection of that evidence, Mr Van Helvert, also pointed to the mass graves found, which are of course crucial in the trial of ISIS suspects. In addition, on the Dutch initiative, the mandate of the UN mission in Iraq has been extended to support the Iraqi authorities in the national prosecution of ISIS. When it comes to Syria, there's been the evidence bank for a couple of years. This was also achieved with active Dutch support. I also attended a presentation of this evidence bank in New York. It is really very impressive what is already available there. That will also really be crucial for the ultimate persecution of those who have committed these terrible crimes. With regard to atrocities, Mr Voordewind asked for the recognition by the UN Security Council of genocide by IS. In this respect, the Netherlands has actually seized every opportunity in the Security Council. I did so personally when I was present at the session on Syria. That's what our ambassador in New York is doing. He even did that yesterday. In the resolution on Iraq last June, we proposed a text on the recognition of genocide. Unfortunately, there was no support for this at the time, because the countries indicated that they wanted a court ruling first. However, we can see that the UN reports refer to 'possible genocide' as a standard. Our commitment will continue to be focused on a clear statement by the UN Security Council on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u36	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yes, I now move on to the human rights sanctions regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u38	Good. First, an interruption by Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u39	I also greatly appreciate the efforts of the Netherlands in the UN Security Council in relation to that evidence bank and insuring, securing and finding evidence of crimes against humanity by IS fighters. I would like to talk about the mechanism to really get them convicted of a crime against humanity and perhaps later on for genocide. We cannot say, on the one hand, 'we think genocide has taken place' or, as an international community, say that it is possible genocide, and then we cannot come up with a mechanism that can really condemn it. Because even if you say it's "possible genocide," you have an international obligation to do something about it. That is difficult; I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u40	And what is your question, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u41	However, we would like to see a proposal in the UN Security Council to establish an international mechanism to condemn them for the most serious crime you can commit. We only have a very short time to do so, because we are only on the UN Security Council for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u42	Then, of course, we come to the essential question of how you are effective. Making a proposal in the UN Security Council will not do anything if it is not adopted. I believe that neither Mr Van Helvert nor I intend to do so. As Mr Van Helvert knows, we have excellent diplomats in the Security Council. The Chamber has also made a visit there. They constantly probe to the other members of the Security Council: "Can you support us in that" or "if we put it something else, then you can support us in that" If such a probe shows that a proposal can count on defeat, then of course you have to ask yourself why you are doing that, because if you come into a position where you regularly submit resolutions or make text proposals that are rejected, it will eat away at your credibility. I don't want to end up in that position. I would therefore like to start by counting our blessings. We have been able to take important steps here on Dutch initiative, both in terms of content and financial. Our commitment remains to take care of it properly. Mr Van Helvert also knows that the great dilemma is that Iraq says 'we are a sovereign state, so we want to try crimes on our territory'.............................................................................................................................................................................................. So you run into the practical dilemma that cooperation is not possible and that the country concerned does not want to give away its sovereignty when it comes to trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u43	It is quite right that it is not easy. Just now the Minister called on Mr De Roon not to make the Netherlands small, because we can also put pressure on Iran in all kinds of ways. That can, of course, also apply to Iraq. The last thing I want is for the Minister to make constant proposals that are not accepted. That doesn't mean we should never look up that edge, those difficulties. In this case, I think it is worth saying very clearly what we consider to be very important, especially as a country that can welcome the International Criminal Court as its host. And if it isn't accepted, then we can still count our blessings, because we have them anyway. If it is not adopted, then we can, even if we are out of the UN Security Council, come back in better times and say: 'Dear people, we tabled that proposal then, let us take it back.'
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u44	Fortunately, we find each other at the point of counting our blessings. I would not underestimate the risk of a rejected resolution. If the same text were to be discussed again, that is actually what Mr Van Helvert describes as a future scenario, then there is a new argument, that you then created by your stubbornness yourself, namely: but that text has already been rejected once. So it is not without risk to put something to the vote that you already know in advance from soundings that it is not going to make it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u45	It's gonna be a game. We both know the possibilities you have in the closet. You can make proposals and then keep them. You can make suggestions and put them on the shelf somewhere temporarily. You can do all kinds of things. But making no proposal is not my preference. In fact, there are two chamber motions that call on the Minister to do so. No one asks the Minister to run into a wall, but now we have no proposal and no one will ever look back at it again. We have a month left in the UN Security Council. I am very attached to the fact that we are really coming up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u46	Now Mr Van Helvert makes it too black and white. He says, "No one's gonna look back on it." An important mechanism has been set in motion. We have very close contact with the countries that are following us, insofar as you can speak of follow-up, such as Belgium and Germany, who think in the same direction as we do on this type of subject. So we're definitely not gonna let it go. But we also do not want to reduce the playing field by allowing texts and options that do not yet have a majority to be tuned, because then you really make it harder for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u47	Still a little while. The Minister is concerned that we are tabling a resolution that is being fired. No one wants that. The same applies to motions in the Chamber. However, it is sometimes valuable, even as a signal. But it's not just the signal that matters to me. I'm also concerned about the risks we're running. The Minister says that the risk of a non-adopted resolution is high. On the other hand, the risk of unconvicted ISIS fighters is much greater, including for the Netherlands, including for Europe. That is why I am so committed to continuing our commitment to this mechanism to get those people convicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u48	The risk of non-convicted ISIS fighters shall not be reduced by a rejected resolution. I agree with Mr Van Helvert that our full commitment must be to condemn these people. But then we must take steps that can be supported. We've taken a lot of those steps. This will remain the bet. It may also be very good that Mr Van Helvert's wish is possible at a later date. But right now, it won't lead to more convictions or a greater chance of conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u49	The Minister says: Mr. Van Helvert's wish. I will certainly not deny that it is my deepest wish, but it is also a motion tabled twice and the wish of a very large majority of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u50	Sure. That is why we have taken all the steps we have taken. But Mr Van Helvert is now asking for a very specific interpretation, of which I think it is real that I should indicate what the consequences would be. Then I come to the commitment to an EU-wide human rights sanctions regime. I would like to thank Mr Van Helvert, who, together with Mr Sjoerdsma, has spoken praisefully about the commitment of the government and the congress that will take place next week. Thank you for the note on the European Stability Initiative drawn up by both gentlemen. There are certainly interesting elements in this, such as the setting up of an independent, standing committee to propose the inclusion of human rights abusers on the list of sanctions. So we will certainly draw attention to that report at next week's congress and to the follow-up that we would like to give to it. With regard to human rights, Mrs Karabulut asked, with the sharpness that we know of her, whether I think the Netherlands should also stand for human rights if money can be earned. That is a rhetorical question, because the answer is of course a heartfelt yes. The defence of human rights is a great value in itself and, at the same time, a very logical part of our foreign policy, because it also has a self-interest. First of all, it is the people who have to live in countries where their rights are violated, but for the Netherlands as an open country, in which we ourselves respect those rights but also like to travel with those countries, whether they are people or trade, it is very important that we all respect the same rights. Furthermore, there is also a direct safety concern. Studies indicate that in countries where there is respect for human rights, the tendency to participate in war or violence is much smaller than in countries where there is no such respect. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the Fund for Journalists, for which he had previously made a proposal. A fund has been set up by Free Press Unlimited to strengthen the position of journalists. The cabinet has committed nearly 1.5 million to this until the end of 2020, and there is no exhaustion. I had the impression that Mr Sjoerdsma suggested that, but that is not the case at the moment. Mrs Ploumen asked if the Netherlands would be willing to organise a UNESCO congress on this subject. I want to take a serious look at that. Of course, I have to look at the organisational and financial side, but I will come back to the Chamber on this. Mrs Ploumen also asked whether the Netherlands would like to award a prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u51	And Mrs Ploumen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you to the Minister for that commitment, but I would like to be even more precise. I read in the daily newspaper this morning that a major conference is being organised to welcome President Trump. This seems to me to be a less logistically complex operation, and it also seems to me more appropriate to the importance that the Netherlands attaches to freedom of the press. So I would like to ask him: could it be a little bit more forthcoming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'm a little surprised at this reaction. I indicated I'm excited about this. I wouldn't know any reason to cancel the business conference...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u54	If you're sorry, I don't count it as interruption, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u55	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u56	I heard something about "sorry." I don't count it as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u57	Yes, I thought I knew Mr Blok a little bit, and I did not see anything that I would qualify as enthusiasm. But I'll take that back immediately. If he says he's happy and he's gonna look at it, I sincerely hope we can hear about it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u58	That's nice. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u59	If Mrs Ploumen takes that back immediately, then I will continue to react the same way. Mrs Ploumen asked about the possibility of introducing a price for a free press. Now, in my brief existence as Foreign Minister, I have been able to award prizes with great regularity. I'd be happy to. Think of the Human Rights Tulip, which also attracted the necessary attention. For example, I recently awarded the prize of Free Press Unlimited to Rana Ayyub, a very brave Indian journalist who, with an undercover operation with danger for her own life and well-being, has raised abuses. Free Press Unlimited we support. It's their price, but we support them. So when it comes to prices, my idea is that we wouldn't create added value by adding another one. But we do do so by wholeheartedly supporting this organisation. Another issue on human rights was raised by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. They both called attention to the position of people in the plain of Nineveh and especially to the Jezidis. Fortunately, millions of people have now returned there, but there are still a few 2 million displaced. It is therefore also logical that we should work for the return, paying particular attention to jezids and Christians, the groups that have been particularly under pressure and are still present now and then. The Netherlands does so by supporting UNDP's Funding Facility for Stabilization with a total of 57 million. It thus carries out a large number of stabilisation projects in the Nineveh plain. Those stabilisation projects aim to create an environment in which safe return is possible. In addition, we pay a lot of attention to education, protection and vocational training for vulnerable groups, including specifically Christians and Jezidis. We do this together with UNICEF and International Organisation for Migration. Mr Van der Staaij specifically asked about Syria. There is currently no possibility to facilitate the return through Dutch policy. The Netherlands supports humanitarian operations there, but the country is still too unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u60	It is good to hear that active support is offered in line with the wishes expressed earlier by the Chamber. I would also like to draw attention to the security services, the police and so on. If possible, the Netherlands can contribute to ensuring that all population groups feel protected and supported by the security services. That really offers an opportunity to break with the old situation in which each group actually had its own security service, with all the risks that that entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u61	Some time ago, the Chamber received an article 100 about the Dutch commitment in Iraq and also specifically in the Kurdish part of Iraq. In this we have indicated that we want to use training to train law enforcement forces in both areas. The issue of human rights and the position of minorities is an important one. It is true that this attention is not self-evident in public services either. It is therefore also an integral part of the Dutch support to create that attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u62	That's very good. What I was concerned about now is precisely the linking of the overall commitment to resettlement, so to speak. You can see that safety is an important point in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u63	Sure. The condition for resettlement is, of course, security. There's no one who likes to leave home. People have fled terrible violence. In a society with different religious movements and partly tribal structures, people are looking for additional security safeguards. Therefore, in the projects supported by the Netherlands, largely through UNDP, the emphasis is placed on creating a safe environment. Successfully, because fortunately a lot of displaced people have now returned. It's about creating a safe environment, so that even those little 2 million people who didn't dare to return, eventually dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u64	The Minister says: fortunately, a lot of people have already returned. We are getting signals that Christians and Jezidis in the Nineveh plain are doing little. That's my question. UNDP does indeed receive a lot of money. That's a common pot, by the way. We hear from the situation on the ground that very little is actually happening to the repair of the water network, the sewerage system, health care and so on. What does the Minister hear through his channels that is actually happening? Is he willing to go through his ambassador and see if UNDP delivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u65	There has to be that kind of surveillance. I must bear in mind, however, that the UNDP funds and their use are actually the premises of Mr Kaag. I do not want to shuffle it off with that, but it does mean that I myself go a little bit less deeply than Mr Kaag. I thought you'd be speaking to him in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u66	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u67	Then Mr Van Ojik asked about the rule of law in the European Union. He asked what possibilities there are for supporting organisations under pressure in other Member States of the European Union. I agree with Mr Van Ojik that there is unfortunately reason to do so. In a number of countries, the rule of law is not moving in the right direction. They also develop specific legislation to limit the space of NGOs. Part of the new Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union is the creation of a fund for justice, rights and values. Mr Van Ojik knows that I am critical of the overall size of the Multiannual Financial Framework, but as long as the condition is met that the overall size is reduced and a number of spending is made more sensible, we support the creation of an EU fund for this purpose. I also think it is more logical that this goes on the EU route than that the Netherlands will only develop activities on it, because the rule of law is a very large part of European cooperation. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the questions on the rule of law and human rights and to the questions on specific countries and territories.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u68	The Minister replied in writing to a number of questions on human rights, but I still have a question about that. Perhaps this is the time to ask my question, specifically about the human rights situation in Venezuela. The Minister answered my questions about the agreement he concluded with Venezuela. This agreement makes it possible to return people who fled Venezuela to parts of our Kingdom. The Minister said that human rights are, of course, a common responsibility, but migration policy is not; each country must do so itself. Now these two things often touch each other, among other things in the case of Venezuela. Should we not say that there is also a common responsibility in the area of migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u69	First of all, I would like to comment on the way in which Mr Van Ojik describes the agreement with Venezuela. It was about ending the boycott by Venezuela, which concerned both goods and people. This was also an express wish of the overseas countries. Because there are flights going back and forth, one of the consequences is that the people who have been denied access to the countries can return to Venezuela, but that was not the independent purpose of the agreement. That's just to correct the introduction. And is migration a common task? No, because the 2010 agreements clearly state that right of residence and admission policy are autonomous responsibilities of the countries. It's not like we're gonna take over for a while. The Statute indicates that human rights and the rule of law are common concerns. So that also means that we, both Mr Knops and Mr Harbers and myself, are asking for attention along the routes I mentioned earlier to the Chamber and we have offered concrete support. That is different from taking over the responsibility of an independent country in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u70	I thought I had expressed myself very carefully by saying that the effect, not the purpose, of the agreement was that people could be returned, but the stenogram will probably give a result on that. Of course there is a distinction between effect and purpose. But the effect is that we agree that we can send people back to Venezuela. Then the human rights of refugees could be at stake. That's my point. And then what the Minister says in part of his answer is that we have a common responsibility for that. Maybe I can make that specific with two points on human rights. One: the international principle of non-refoulement, not sending people back to an area where they may be insecure. Two: the reception of people applying for asylum and the conditions under which that happens. They're degrading, so we know from reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u71	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u72	The question is therefore whether the distinction made by the Minister between 'we are not jointly responsible for migration but we are responsible for human rights' can be maintained in practice in the flow of refugees from Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u73	That distinction can be made. We have offered support to Aruba and Curaçao, both in terms of the reception on the ground of people applying for asylum status and the procedure. People are entitled to an assessment of that application. It certainly happens that people from Venezuela rightly appeal to the Refugee Convention because they are personally prosecuted. But experience now shows that a lot of people leave the country because of the economic conditions; there is a dramatic economic policy there. That is not an entry criterion under the Refugee Convention. There is therefore no question of refoulement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u74	Mr Van Ojik...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr President, thank you for the enthusiastic way in which you have given me the floor. That's very much appreciated. The Netherlands provides support, I hear the Minister say. That's very good, and I know it. But perhaps on the points he has just formulated, namely the right to a proper procedure, decent reception during that procedure and the guarantee of non-refoulement, the Minister can check the following. Can the objective be met in the framework of the Kingdom in the foreseeable future? Because that's what it's all about in the end, of course. That also concerns his colleague Knops, as I am well aware. If the Minister would like to look at that again, I would be grateful to him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u76	I will continue to monitor this situation closely, both in contacts with Mr Knops and in contacts I have with colleagues on the islands, so I can answer this yes in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u77	I had asked the Minister whether he would like to take the lead in bringing about a global sanction regime against violence against women in conflict areas within the EU. He answered that question in writing and he says: we are committed to integrating sexual violence in conflict zones into other sanctions regimes. That's nice and it's good that he does. I would like to ask him why he does not want to take the lead within the EU now to take the EU's position in order to come up with a separate sanction regime that can apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u78	With Mrs Ploumen, I find sexual violence terrible and I would welcome the use of all possible instruments to end it. Here too, of course, we are exploring what is feasible before we come up with concrete proposals. We have already discussed in detail whether this could be done via the UN Security Council's route. The good news is that it has succeeded in including this in a number of sanction regimes, for example for Libya, but there is no support for a specific thematic sanction regime. That is also our assessment in the European Union at the moment. As Mrs Ploumen knows, it is not that I would not be prepared to commit myself to sanctioning regimes. We are working on the human rights sanctions regime, which, of course, is very much in line with it. We're working on the cybersanction regime. That's neither one run, but we're all in it. I do not see the specific regime referred to by Mrs Ploumen as yet counting on support in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you again to the Minister for the commitment that is being made. I can imagine that I kind of robbed the Minister with my proposal yesterday, because we haven't talked about it before. So could I ask the Minister to do a little more research in the coming months within the Union, because we expect there to be many like-minded countries, so that perhaps we could talk about it later this year or early next year? Because I don't want to give up yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u80	Yes, I will do so in the context of the exploration of the human rights sanctions regime, which we are nevertheless conducting extensively. I've already indicated it's touching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u81	Thank you for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u82	Then I come to the questions that have been asked about a number of countries and areas. First of all, the Middle East peace process, in which Mrs Karabulut asked what perspective I see at the moment. Unfortunately, at the moment, the situation is bleak. Both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side, there is little willingness to take real concrete steps. But here again, I think back to Mr De Roon, who suggested that if you do not see any progress, you can stop that a conflict like this does not lend itself to stopping or dropping out. The Dutch commitment, together with the EU, remains a two-state solution. At the moment, a Dutch diplomat, Mrs Terstal, is the European envoy for the Middle East Peace Process. We remain fully committed to this, however difficult it is at the moment. The situation in Gaza was raised by Mr De Roon, Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Karabulut. Mr De Roon asked for a response to the latest outbreak of violence. The rocket fire by Hamas on Israel was condemned by the EU and by the Netherlands last Tuesday in the special session of the UN Security Council, that attacks on civilians are unacceptable. The Netherlands supports Israel's right to defend itself, but that defence must of course remain within the limits of international law. We hope, of course, that the efforts of Egypt and the United Nations to at least restore calm and ultimately reach a long-term solution will also be successful. In the Israeli investigation which Mr Sjoerdsma, for example, asked for, we insisted on an early conclusion. I did that myself in a recent conversation with the Israeli ambassador. Our embassy in Tel Aviv is doing that now. The investigations are ongoing and I have no clarity about the completion. An investigation has also been launched by the UN Human Rights Council. Its planning is that there will be an outcome in March 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u83	The Minister says about the Israeli investigation that there are two criminal investigations going on and that he wants to wait and see. This against the backdrop of 200 dead and 10,000 wounded. Does the Minister agree with me that you can hardly take this seriously and that the application of the violence and the rules used by the Israeli army which killed so many peaceful demonstrators should be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u84	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u85	And I was not finished, Mr President, I also asked the Minister, who has just rightly condemned rocket attacks from Gaza to Israel, to condemn this violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mrs Karabulut asked me how I judged this in the first part of her question. Then I need a little more specific information she means by "this."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u87	What do you mean, "this," Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u88	I didn't just say "this."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u89	What else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u90	I would like to answer your question, but you made an argument and then said: how do you judge this? The second part of your question was clear whether I was prepared to condemn Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u91	Okay, the conviction will come along. I shall repeat my question. The Minister writes in his written replies that there are two criminal investigations in progress, two out of 200 dead and 10,000 wounded. How does the Minister assess this investigation in the light of the large number of deaths, the large number of injuries and the fact that Israel is not therefore carrying out an investigation into the policy it is pursuing and its commitment to peaceful demonstrations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u92	Mr. Chairman. I can't judge these tests because I don't have them. Criminal investigation is rightly a serious means, because it is indeed an enormous number of deaths and injuries. It is also not unusual in the Netherlands that this takes a long time. It is a matter of great urgency, but I cannot give an opinion on this investigation until I know its contents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u93	I'm just waiting for the second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u94	And what was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u95	Then there is the question of whether I want to condemn Israel. This also applies because I do not have any research to indicate whether there was any mention of it and to what extent excessive violence in protecting our own citizens and borders, I cannot make such a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u96	I assume that's my second question, because I just had to explain to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u97	Go ahead, Mrs. Karabulut. The negotiations have begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u98	I find it truly appalling that the Minister here again measures with double standards. The minister says he's serious about stopping the violence. The Minister knows that 200 people have died and 10,000 have been injured, with only two criminal investigations going on. If he does not condemn the use of excessive force from the Israeli army or only from one side, then that is part of the problem, why this issue is not resolved. My follow-up question would be: if the examination of the Human Rights Council, to which the Minister refers, shows that human rights have been violated, will the Minister take serious steps? Is the Minister going to take sanctions? What is the minister going to do, or is this just another delay and buying time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u99	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u100	... in the hope that this will be forgotten again, as always?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u101	I am going to study that research carefully, of course, but that is also true: I do not have the research yet. Fortunately, here I have a date for this research so I cannot now tell what I will do with the outcome of that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u102	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u103	Maybe just a quick question. We discussed this very extensively in the spring. Then it was about whether you could actually leave an investigation into, among other things, violence by the Israeli army to the Israeli army. That was the big discussion then. The minister thought so, and part of the Chamber didn't think so. While the investigation is going to take a long time, would he perhaps like to ask the Israeli Government again when that investigation is actually to be expected? In view of the whole debate we have had on this, I think that is an important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u104	I've done that recently. That's what I indicated in a conversation I had with the Israeli ambassador. I didn't get a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr Van Ojik asked about the new China strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mrs Karabulut, is your question still on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u108	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u109	The Minister has now arrived at China; he answers the questions that have been asked. Do you have any questions about China?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u110	No, I have a question about Palestine and a written reply from the Minister, because we were at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u112	I asked the Minister yesterday if he was prepared to investigate an Irish proposal to impose sanctions, similar to those imposed after Russia annexed Crimea, by banning products from illegal settlements. The Minister states in his written answers that he is against a boycott. But does the Minister recognise that banning trafficking in illegal settlements, as laid down in resolutions and international law, is not a boycott?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u113	It's a boycott in its effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u114	And then it got quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u115	Mr President, since we had eight questions, I was a little doubting. It is not a boycott; the cabinet policy is aimed at discouragement. The cabinet wants Dutch companies not to do business with companies operating in illegal settlements. I've been there in the summer. It is very harsh, but there is an illegal settlement economy, which has to do with the fact that these products are exported to the EU, whereas the Minister says he does not want to. All I want is that, following the action taken against Russia when Crimea was occupied, we also take sanctions against this occupation and ensure that a standard is set. The only question I had to ask the Minister is to look seriously at that initiative, not to put it away as a boycott, because that is not what it is, and to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u116	I understand that Mrs Karabulut is not satisfied with the answer that the government does not feel, but the answer is no different. The Netherlands is not for settlement policy and considers labelling to be important, but on the question of whether we want to copy Irish law or introduce another form of preventing trade - which is in effect a boycott - the answer is no. I understand that Mrs Karabulut would have liked that answer to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u117	I would like to go back to the previous point, the investigation that Israel itself should have done but was not done. I understand from the Minister that the Israeli Ambassador has also given no indication when this will take place. Is it not time to say to the Israelis that within eight weeks the investigation must be completed, otherwise we will scale up or argue for another investigation? Otherwise, we'll wait until the end of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u118	In the Netherlands too, it is not given in advance to the Public Prosecutor's Office how long a criminal investigation takes. So I share the impatience, but I cannot expect anything from another country that we do not handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u119	Then perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to say a little more precisely what the Israeli Ambassador has just said. Did he say "I can't tell you about when it's finished" or did he say "we still haven't started, stay out of it"? I understand very well that the Minister cannot quote literally from that conversation, but we deserve a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u120	It's been reported that the investigation is ongoing. If I am asked to do so sometimes, how long is an investigation by the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office going to take, I can honestly not give an answer to that question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u121	I have another question about the salaries of terrorists and support for families from the Palestinian Authority. As the Minister knows, the Chamber is often very polarized about the Middle East Peace Process, but on this subject there was a broad-based chamber motion that said that this should end. Is it true that nothing has actually changed and that what had changed in it, namely that the PLO would pay instead of the Palestinian Authority, has even been reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u122	As Mr Van der Staaij undoubtedly knows, the Netherlands does not itself make available money from which salaries can be paid. The Netherlands is giving other types of support to ensure that the situation for the people in the Palestinian territories remains as bearable as possible, but we do not give money for salaries ourselves. That does not therefore give us the opportunity to stop these payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u123	This is too easy. It has been said in the past that we find this practice so damaging that we ask the Foreign Minister to work with other European countries to put an end to this practice. The picture was that with a lot of effort a little movement has come in. Now it looks like it's even going back. In view of the years of foreign affairs' commitment, can this not be satisfied? So what's the Minister going to do with this? Isn't it time to take firmer steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u124	I would like to return to a possible decline in the second term. I don't have any information on that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u126	I come to China, to which Mr Van Ojik first asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u127	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u128	China doesn't want it to work yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u129	Mr Van Ojik is waiting for China, he is longing for China, but he will still have to wait, because I want to come back to Israel and Palestine. There are more things bothering me, but the specific thing that's bothering me right now is the destruction. Of this, this Chamber has given its broad support: if there is destruction, especially in the C area, then we must recover the cost of it in Israel. Not only the Prime Minister, but also this Minister of Foreign Affairs has worked hard to achieve this. I'm grateful to them for that, but that money isn't back. In fact, I find that unacceptable from a friend, and I think it is also an insult to our taxpayers. What's the next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u130	The Netherlands will continue to insist on this, but of course it is not the case that I can sign an Israeli cheque.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u131	That would be very positive, because that would enable us to deal with part of our budget in this way. The essence is that Israel is a friendly nation, an ally. When an ally destroys projects of ours, which involves costs, where Dutch taxpayers' money goes, when even an intervention by the Prime Minister does not lead to reimbursement of those costs, I expect something else. Perhaps the Minister does not have the solution in place right now, but I would ask him to investigate how the Netherlands can get these payments back. Whether it happens via local taxes at the embassy here or through European subsidies or whatever, I don't care at all. I'm just mentioning some creative things that come to mind right now, but I'm asking the Minister to look into this anyway, because it doesn't feel right and it doesn't feel friendly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u132	Mr Sjoerdsma is quite right to take it high, because I agree with him that this does not fit in with a friendly relationship. The efforts made by the Netherlands take place as far as possible with other EU countries which unfortunately face the same result, which has so far been the same. At the moment, I have no option but to continue to press on Israel, both independently by the Netherlands and together with other European countries. And we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u133	Please continue. No, Mr Voordewind has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u134	Just on the issue of payments to Palestinian convicted terrorists. I support the words of Mr Van der Staaij. The Americans have now stopped some of their payments to the Palestinian Authority, precisely because of the perverse incentive that the Palestinians are paying to those convicted terrorists. Other countries have also stopped part of their funding. And now even Israel is holding up some of the payments. Is this not also a signal to the Netherlands that we should reconsider our funding or perhaps a symbolic part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u135	I'm taking this into account in my second term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u136	We're coming to China, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u137	In a China strategy, it is not illogical to keep the long term in mind in the debate as well. Mr Van Ojik asked how China reacted to raising the human rights situation and specifically the position of Uighurs and Christians. Both the Prime Minister and myself have addressed this position in the discussions with our counterparts. The reaction changes, of course, per conversation. China indicates that human rights are enshrined in the Constitution there. We then refer to the various reports from which such noises come. We will make the relationship with China wider and more intensive. This will create a platform to keep this message clear for as long as it is necessary. Where possible, this will happen together with other countries. I have a great fondness for raising through coalitions and international organizations. The four-yearly human rights review in Geneva was discussed in November. The Netherlands has made a clear contribution to this. Then I'd like to transfer to Yemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr President, through you, I thank the Minister for his reply. Moreover, I think it is very good that we can look forward to a China strategy; let me also say that. As important as human rights are, a point which the Minister is now pleased to pick out, from the report of the Chinese Prime Minister's visit we received, it turned out that many other things are involved: intellectual property, level playing field, sustainable, espionage and so on. I believe that all this is being addressed, but my point was that I sometimes have the idea that there is a real difference of opinion in China. That is the dilemma that I was calling attention to, because we are in the process of signing for billions of contracts. I only hope that China's strategy will come soon, and that we will soon put it behind us naively, as I called it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u139	We agree that there is a different view in China. That is why we are both calling for attention to be given to this. But the logic I use in all the places in the world where we have great concerns about human rights also applies to China. It's about whether you're a credible interlocutor; whether you're actually an interlocutor at all. Of course, it is not the case that every country receives a visit from the Chinese Prime Minister. It is not really the case that every attempt to make an appointment is always answered with yes. But the fact that the Netherlands is in that position is because we are an interesting country for a lot of reasons; I refer again to the discussion I had with Mr De Roon. As a result, we continue to raise important issues such as human rights not once, not twice, but a hundred times if necessary. That is precisely why it is important that we conclude these contracts, that they are increased and that cooperation is intensified. This makes the platform more important, as well as the importance of finding each other on it in the end. With regard to Yemen, I would, of course, like to thank Mrs Karabulut for the indeed moving picture. Mrs Karabulut referred to the arms embargo, as we have often discussed it with each other. I have just indicated in the explanatory statement to the motion......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are always looking for coalitions for this, but I have to say that large countries, partly also permanent members of the Security Council, want to go one step less than we do. But we are working out a resolution with all our might to achieve a cease-fire and humanitarian access in Yemen. That is really the very first thing that needs to happen, indeed when you see the terrible fate of children like the one in the picture. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij on the question of the Armenian genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u140	First Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u141	When you say that an arms embargo should not be discussed now and should not be the focus of negotiations, I really wonder what kind of foreign minister we have and what kind of world we live in. Yesterday seven civilians died again in Hodeidah. 10,000 pregnant women are trapped in that area. The wish for a ceasefire has been expressed, but the Saudis and their partners are bombing further. I am glad that we in the Chamber are taking this initiative and then the Minister will have to implement it later. My question is: does the Minister recognise that the Saudi coalition is deliberately bombing targets such as food supplies, farms and warehouses? They use it to starve as a weapon of war. I also refer to that photo of Nusair and to the many other children who unfortunately died of hunger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u142	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mrs Karabulut suggests that there is a difference of opinion on the seriousness of the situation in Yemen. There certainly isn't. It's terrible what's happening. It's really dramatic. All the warring parties play a very invigorating role there. The committee of experts, which was set up by Dutch initiative, points out the scandalous role played by all the warring parties there and which indeed leads to famine and horrific violence. It is the full commitment of the Netherlands to improve that situation. Mrs Karabulut also knows that we have had this conversation a great many times, and that the Netherlands itself is not a major arms exporter at all and is particularly reluctant when it comes to countries active in Yemen. Countries that are large arms exporters are not prepared to return their supplies. Mrs Karabulut's indignation here is good, but does not lead to any other conclusions in the countries concerned. Mrs Karabulut herself told me that she was recently in Paris. Then I asked: have you now discussed this with the Paris Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u144	Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u145	Mr President, I really like this trick. If you give me the room, I am prepared to answer all the Minister's questions here in this plenary session all afternoon, but I asked the Minister a question. I would like the answer before I make use of my second possibility of interruption. It is also true that, as Members of Parliament, we are limited in our ability to ask questions. That's what I want to say. If you will allow me to make room for that, I would be happy to be here all afternoon to answer all the Minister's questions. For now, the Minister has to answer our questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u146	I just gave the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u147	No, Mr President, my question to the Minister was: does the Minister recognise that starvation is used as a weapon of war in Yemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u148	I have indicated that all the warring parties, as the expert group's report shows, are guilty of scandalous practices, including starvation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u149	If the Minister acknowledges this, why does he not want to use the splendid resolution which the Minister and Minister Kaag have managed to achieve in the Security Council and on which a press release was proudly issued by Foreign Affairs? Now what is in that resolution is happening. That's been happening for years, and it's getting worse and worse, killing all these kids. Why is this resolution not translated into action? While we are still in the UN Security Council, we must work to punish those people and entities who are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u150	I just indicated there's a stake. I have indicated that the full commitment of the Netherlands, including in the debate next Friday, is precisely a ceasefire so that there is access for humanitarian aid. That's exactly what you're talking about delivering food. That's the answer I gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr President, without using my next opportunity to interrupt...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u153	You shouldn't say that, because that's what I'm about. Otherwise, we're gonna be negotiating interruptions here every time. Just ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u154	I'm not negotiating. I just want to say that once again the Minister is not answering my question. My question was: is the Minister prepared to commit himself to sanctions for those parties, for those people, for those entities, for those countries that are currently using starvation in the war in Yemen that caused those children to die? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u155	That bet is there. We're really falling into repeats. The instrument of sanctions will not be supported by the UN Security Council. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij on the question of the Armenian genocide. It is quite clear that terrible atrocities took place in 1915. Mr Menno Snel attended the commemorations in Jerevan on behalf of the Dutch government in April to show respect for the relatives on behalf of the government. We will also be present at every five-year remembrance at the political level in Jerevan. Mr Van der Staaij asked if the cabinet would also like to attend the commemoration in Assen. I really want to think about that. I would like to come back to that, because that brings with it a number of questions. Both gentlemen asked for a further comment on the wording "the question of the Armenian genocide." The key word is, of course, genocide. The coalition agreement is in line with international law on the use of the term "genocide." This states that judgments of international courts or tribunals, unambiguous conclusions resulting from scientific research and adoption by the United Nations are leading in the recognition of genocide. This has also been confirmed in our response to the report of the CAVV and the External People's Legal Adviser. The UN Security Council, which should therefore play a role in this, has not established that there is genocide in Armenia. The other route, the International Courts, did not propose this either. The terminology used by the cabinet, "the issue of the Armenian genocide," expresses the fact that the cabinet has not established that there is genocide. That was also the outcome of an earlier debate on this subject with Minister Kaag. With the term 'issue' I also started with it, it is acknowledged that there is no doubt that there have been really horrific events there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u156	The questions were aimed at encouraging the government to avoid the word "issue." I would like to ask the Minister what monument the Secretary of State visited there. Is that the monument to the issue of the Armenian genocide or the Armenian genocide? It's a bit of a rhetorical question. Because the word 'issue' is so offensive to the Armenian community, I ask the Minister to see if there are any other possible wordings. I refer to the statements made by Chancellor Merkel, who also used other terms when she was at that monument in Jerevan. He was talking about "the horrible events." The Minister is now also talking about the horrible events. That would be a lot better than "the issue."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u157	I have indeed used the term 'terrible events', but I wonder what it adds to the use of further wordings. The term "genocide" has a legal meaning which requires great care. I explained it to you, too. That balancing framework is not fulfilled. Then I don't see what added value it has to go on looking for words. That is not the way to reverse the suffering and it leads to a special kind of searching for other formulations without a clear advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u158	The Minister also knows that at the time of this genocide in 1915, there were no League of Nations or UN and there could therefore be no judicial rulings on the condemnation of the genocide, although they were done in Turkish context. So that's hard for him to rely on. We are often sensitive here to how phrases appear to certain minorities. I simply ask the Minister: is he willing to talk to the Armenian community? That does not have to be done now to see how we can take account of the sensitivities to the Armenian community?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u159	But then I wake up an expectation that I have to make an assessment of whether I can make it come true. The key word is genocide, a word with a very special legal value. The fact that there was no UN or League of Nations at the time does not mean that international courts or the UN can no longer make statements. Decisions are made regularly by judges on events that took place a long time ago. So that route is not closed, but I really do not see how, even in a conversation, I can respond to the desire to use a different wording, yet on the one hand there is a desire to declare it genocide, for which I really want to apply the legal framework. I don't see any middle ground in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u160	If the Minister says that there are still plenty of opportunities left to look at, then I say: be my guest. And then I ask the Minister whether, while we are still members of the Security Council, he would like to bring that forward and whether he would like to table a resolution to that effect. But I don't think the Minister wants to go that far; unless he says yes now, we're done. I would ask him to perhaps look at Mrs Merkel's remarks, which do not refer to the issue of the Armenian genocide, but quite deliberately use different terms, precisely in order not to upset the Armenian community. Is the Minister prepared to look at other wordings?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u161	Mrs Merkel's wording is close to the wording I have just used, but I do not see any legal basis for any other wording relating to genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u162	The Minister speaks very much in formal and legal terms about this. I believe that concepts such as 'people's murder' and 'greyness taking place' offer just a little more scope than that strictly formal approach. The Minister says that he does not really see what has been gained by this, but can he imagine that it will happen to the Armenian community when we talk about the commemoration of the issue of Armenian genocide? Specifically, it is not a question of commemorating a case of genocide, is it? It is about the commemoration of atrocities that have taken place. This also has to do with more empathy in the way the words are chosen in this context. Does the Minister, with this as an example, not see any possibility of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u163	In fact, I can imagine that the terminology used by the Armenian community seems formal and legal. At the same time, I have to say that the key word 'genocide' also brings with it important, formal and legal aspects. As a representative of a government, moreover, a host government of important international courts, I cannot pretend that those formal legal aspects do not exist alongside the very human side which Mr Van der Staaij points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u164	But the Minister is not obliged to choose the term "issue" instead of the term "genocide"? The minister says he doesn't see what that's gonna do. I mentioned a very specific, specific example: there is no commemoration of the Armenian genocide, is there? Isn't there a memory of atrocities? If there were a little more mobility, even in the choice of words, that would help. Would the Minister still like to look at that particular point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u165	My question remains what that solves, knowing that the real debate is about the term 'genocide'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u166	Finally. What's that gonna solve? The real discussion is about the term "genocide." We have discussed this in detail before. But now a problem has arisen as a result of the systematic use of the term 'issue', different from other countries. The Minister himself mentioned this example. There have been horrific events, of which we must be aware, and let us then, for example, in the event that it really is a memorial, not in every sense that word 'issue' comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u167	About that "in every sense": that's why I could just use another term. But again, it's a government representation or statement. That is what Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind are asking for. In that declaration of government you will inevitably have to come back to the question of how you deal with the term "genocide." Using other words, even if it is in a broader context, does not solve the core question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u168	The coalition agreement is actually very clear about the recognition of genocides by the Dutch government. In that sense, I understand very well that Minister Blok says: I cannot go beyond a number of things. However, I would ask him to look at the way, for example, Chancellor Merkel does this. She is indeed talking about atrocities that took place at the beginning of the last century. In addition, it makes a reference to what Parliament has done. So she always says: that has happened and Parliament has adopted this resolution. Does the Minister see any possibility of doing the same? In doing so, he prevents himself from doing something that is not allowed under the coalition agreement. It would be a considerable relief for the people in the Netherlands who care about that and who care about that. Does the Minister see it as an opportunity to say: we are talking about atrocities that took place at the beginning of the last century, and Parliament has said the following?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u169	I shall look again at Mrs Merkel's wording. Then I will return to that in writing, because it will be in front of me. Then there's still time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u171	Good. So the Minister will come back to that. I heard he's gonna do that in writing. So that's not going to be discussed in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u172	I do not have the wording in front of me, so I cannot guarantee that it will succeed in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u173	Okay. Then you know that too, Mr. Van Helvert. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u174	Then I come to the situation of the Rohingya, which Mr Kuzu specifically referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u175	He's not here, but he can read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u176	He asked for trial and international liability. My colleague Kaag was in Myanmar and Bangladesh last week, because the situation of the Rohingya is very important to us. It called for cooperation with the fact-finding mission to apply the UN's rulings, and thus to grant access to aid organisations. At European level, it has been decided to include a number of Myanmari soldiers on the EU sanctions list. The efforts of the Netherlands are also to extend that list further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u177	Has this been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u178	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u179	Then there is an interruption by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u180	Thank you to the Minister and his colleague for the commitment made by the Netherlands. Today there are disturbing reports that Rohingya refugees from Bangladesh are being forced to return to Myanmar without the conditions laid down. So there is no safe return and they do not get any rights as citizens of Myanmar. In what way does the Minister intend to respond? What possibilities does he see, including perhaps in the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u181	It is indeed very important that people return voluntarily and feel safe. As Mrs Ploumen knows, the Netherlands has always played a prominent role in this. The factfinding mission was also strongly based on Dutch initiative. The Netherlands therefore also wants monitoring of the situation in Myanmar and its return in particular. Because I'm not at all comfortable with Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u182	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u183	I will go to the questions that have been asked as a result of the situation in Pakistan. In particular, Mr Voordewind addressed this in detail. He asked whether the conventions contained in the GSP trade agreement are being applied to Pakistan. The Trade Treaty provides for a monitoring mechanism to monitor the 27 international conventions referred to therein. We monitor that in all countries. In fact, 'we' is the European Union, which has concluded this treaty. I recognise very much the concerns that Mr Voordewind and others have about the situation in Pakistan. We have had an extensive exchange of views on the harrowing position of Mrs Asia Bibi, who still has to fear for her own safety. A proposal to limit or freeze the tariff benefits resulting from that Convention should come from the European Commission. I would not be immediately in favour of this, because it would restrict trade opportunities for a relatively poor country such as Pakistan. This would eventually affect large groups of people who depend on trade with the European Union for their livelihood. The monitoring of the treaties is therefore very important, and we also call on Pakistan to do so bilaterally; I have done so personally, but the use of trade sanctions is a very unfocused step. Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij asked about the commitment to reverse the further extension of the blasphemy law in Pakistan. We are doing this, among other things, in the UN framework, in the four-yearly human rights reviews, which I mentioned earlier. We also call on the UN Special Rapporteur Ahmed Shaheed to pay particular attention to blasphemy. I will raise the subject of Pakistan myself in the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council, because there is sufficient reason to do so. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the concrete commitment to enhancing religious freedom in both Pakistan and India. We are also doing this both bilaterally and through the EU. Our commitment is not only aimed at Christian minorities but at all religious minorities and also, as I say to Mr Koopmans and Mr Sjoerdsma, who asked for it, people who claim the right to live without religion, because that is part of it. Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion of involving young people and students is a justified one. So we like to fill it out. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert again addressed the subject of a special Dutch envoy for religious freedom. I mentioned earlier that this issue is extremely important. It is in the coalition agreement, but even if it was not, it would still be very important. We have a human rights ambassador, who does a lot of useful work and also has good access to governments in many countries. I think it is an important and logical part of the human rights ambassador's package to continue to advocate religious freedom, freedom of belief. Mr President, I would like to turn to the final questions on the consular issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u184	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. He also thinks it is a very important subject. We have discussed before that we want to have a quantitative increase in the commitment to it and that is why we would like to have such a special envoy. We also heard in the discussion, which the Minister also received, that there were broad positive voices in the Chamber about this proposal. I therefore propose that, in the second instance, I should like to table it as a new motion, with some adjustments. Then I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u185	Yes, I will then return to the motion in second place, which will then be put before the House again and amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u186	I wholeheartedly support Mr Van Helvert's words. We'll see what the Minister's verdict will be. A brief addition to what the Minister said. He is prepared to raise Pakistan with his colleagues in the Foreign Affairs Council. I would like to remind him of the new law that is about to come, the Pakistan Electronic Crimes Act, which would incorporate the blasphemy law and further restrict freedom of expression. Is the Minister willing to include that in those talks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u187	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u188	Before the Minister goes to the last block, I have one more question. I thought he might also come to the regions specifically on Russia and therefore on Nord Stream, but that did not happen. I understand that too, because the Minister answered these questions in writing, but I would like to ask him a question on that point. This also applies to the adoption of a broad-based motion in the Chamber, which asks the cabinet to do something about it. I am not going to repeat that for the sake of time. Actually, the cabinet explained that differently. It has said that in this particular case there are still talks going on between Russia and Ukraine and we are following them. But, yes, it turns out that it is completely unclear where those conversations, which are still taking place, lead to. Is the Minister not now a little more inclined to do what the Chamber has asked him to do on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u189	As a result of that motion, I indicated in a letter that I was carrying out the motion in stages. I have indicated that I think it is very important, knowing that Germany, as well as other countries that follow this dossier with interest, at least to share the importance of Ukraine's energy security, to first see if we can secure it without including the whole Nord Stream project in European legislation. Several discussions have taken place on this subject. This also applies to the fact that, of course, I would have liked this to have led to a conclusion, but that is not the case. However, it has not led to the conclusion that energy security cannot be guaranteed. So I think it is too early to start using the follow-up step indicated in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u190	But the complicated point is that the Chamber has asked the Cabinet to take the step that the Minister now sees as a follow-up step, which he believes is not yet ready, and therefore to support, at European level, an amendment to the EU Gas Directive with a view to imposing conditions on Nord Stream. That was a motion passed in the Chamber. The cabinet said: we don't really think it's such a good idea; we prefer to see conversations start first. Now we're six months ahead and the conversations haven't led to anything. Then it's time for the Minister to say, "Okay, I'm going to carry out that motion." Or, if there's no white smoke in a month, I'm going to make that motion. I mean, there's got to be something more than just saying, yeah, sorry, we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u191	If there were a clear signal coming out of those conversations one way or the other, that would be the time to draw our conclusion. But Mr Van Ojik is sufficiently skilled in international diplomacy to know that the six-month period is really not long for this type of negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u192	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u193	The Minister may say that in such talks a six months is not long, but in the meantime, every week, every week, four kilometres of Nord Stream pipeline go into the sea. So that leadership will be there soon. It'll be ready next year. That's gonna get gas flowing through there. This is not about the opinion of an individual Member of Parliament or an individual group, but rather about the opinion of the Chamber. I repeat that to Mr Van Helvert, but he was talking about another matter. The Chamber is asking the Cabinet to do something. The cabinet has put forward strong arguments, and I admit immediately that it is not doing so at the moment, because it is waiting for that step to be taken. But after a six-month period in which that pipeline is being built in a raging rush, the question is justified as to how much longer the cabinet is going to bet on this wrong horse. Or on the good horse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u194	But then it is important to remove the suggestion that the motion called for a halt to the construction. The motion called for the proposal for regulation by the European Union to be introduced, but that did not mean the cessation of construction. Even if we had not built in the intermediate step of consultation with Ukraine, Russia and the European Union, that stage was not intended for that motion. The aim was to apply EU regulation to that leadership that would then be there. You can do that when the lead's finished. In fact, if that leadership is not there, you cannot regulate it. That is not, in itself, a reason to draw a conclusion from that point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u195	This really is a curious project which, in fact, only two European Member States are in favour of, namely Germany and Austria. The rest is either against or neutral. That is not a divided European Union. That is a European Union that does not really do what it should do. That is protecting us from this geopolitical influence of Russia, especially given that Ukraine's revenue from this gas transit is exactly the equivalent of what they can spend on their military expenditure. That is what is needed again, and I think the Minister knows that too well to keep Russia alive. So there's definitely something at stake here. It is not just about Russia's influence on the European Union, but also about Ukraine's ability to reduce the conflict there a little. In view of the unpopularity and slowness of this project, I would ask the Minister when we will take the next step. When will Germany show that these conditions of the Netherlands are harsh? I am really, really worried, especially as an ally if the United States is now threatening sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u196	The Netherlands is one of the neutral countries. It's a private enterprise project. That also has geopolitical consequences. Mr Sjoerdsma is right about that. The Netherlands considers the step to allow the EU to regulate what happens to networks coming from outside the EU, which does not only concern gas networks, because many more networks from outside the EU are not the right way to address geopolitical concerns. Mr Sjoerdsma is now asking whether I can mention a moment when I think that part two of the order outlined in the letter should enter into force. I can't set a date for that. I can see that, fortunately, serious discussions are taking place and that I do not think it is obvious to say, as long as these talks are taking place, that we no longer have confidence in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u197	This is what I'm really worried about, I have to be honest. Of course, those conversations are still going on, but at the same time, that pipeline is being phased out. Mr Van Ojik is right to say that. The vulnerability that we are experiencing, and not only ourselves, but also the European Union and the Dutch business community, should also be a cause for great concern. Then let me ask him this. If the talks were next month, can there be a letter to this Chamber stating where we stand, what are the outstanding points and how this Minister estimates the perspective? Is this going to be okay in the sense that Ukraine is indeed being preserved as a transit country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u198	That's the kind of letter I'd like to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u199	Okay, well, I suggest you move on to the last topic now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u200	Yeah, about the consular work of our posts. Mr Koopmans and Mr Sjoerdsma have asked whether the increase in the price of applying for a new passport abroad is really necessary. I have sent the Chamber an investigation report in which I indicate how high the costs are and how we calculate them. I put it on the table transparently. If those costs are there, they have to be carried somewhere. I realize that Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out that collecting a passport abroad is more complicated and sometimes more costly than in the Netherlands, but that does not eliminate the costs for the government. So if the costs are not borne by the person who applied for the passport, we must drop them in the budget. That means that there is less room for other choices, which I know is important not only to me, but also to the Chamber. I am therefore really concerned with a proper way of sharing the costs that exist. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u201	Thank you. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u202	My question is also about consular assistance. I've drawn attention to the Forced Marriage Unit, the Department of Marriage Control. The Minister has indicated that he wants to continue the work that has been done in it, possibly in a different way. Does that remain a hard point of attention? Is he going to invest in that? Is that what he's going to do? I am also thinking of an action plan to help those poor girls and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u203	That is certainly an important subject. I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber about this and indicated that it is a very important subject for our embassies and consulates in the countries concerned, just as we think it is important that we have information on the Dutch side to prevent girls from becoming victims, or, if so, that it is reported in good time. That full attention will certainly continue to hold this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u204	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. He also understands the concern of the VVD. This is now being integrated. That sounds very good, but then there is always the danger that it is next to a lot of other things, while this is a very specific vulnerable group. I would just like to say that this is not a question, and I think it is good that the Minister should continue to focus on it and use all the resources necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u205	I think that was a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u206	The Minister will agree with me that the EU arms export criteria are being violated, especially with regard to sales to Saudi Arabia, where billions of weapons are being deployed in Yemen. I have asked the Minister if he is prepared to make an effort to set up an independent committee so that countries can no longer just get away with it. At least, it's a step towards that. In response, he said: I am not going to do that, because a similar proposal has been made earlier and there was no basis for that. But that was another proposal, with a role for the Member States and with a binding nature. I want an independent committee with experts, who can provide advice requested and unsolicited without this being binding and without role for the Member States. I'm gonna ask the Minister if he can give his verdict one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u207	As Mrs Karabulut knows, I have also raised the issue of arms supplies with other Member States which play a much greater role in this than the Netherlands. The Prime Minister has also called for much more restraint. I know from these contacts that giving up the assessment of whether the European criteria are being met is not something that would be supported by such a committee. So here too I have to make a real assessment and share it with the Chamber. This will not be supported by the entire European Union, but we would need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u208	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u209	That last argument is starting to get a little comical, but I will come back to that later. It's not what the minister says it is. It is not a committee that can make binding statements about Member States, but rather a committee with experts and lawyers like the international advisor, who may be able to review them. That's how you control things. If the Minister says he doesn't want to look at it and he doesn't want to do his best, then I'd like to ask: what is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u210	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u211	For it is obvious that these criteria are being violated and that is not good...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u212	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u213	...for the EU, but certainly not for the Yemenis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u214	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u215	There is a constant fact that Mrs Karabulut and I find the supply of arms to the warring parties in Yemen very poignant. But that sadness does not apply to the Dutch role, but to that of other countries. We have to observe with each other that there is a limit to the Dutch input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u216	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u217	No, Mrs Karabulut, I have been very generous in granting interruptions. You also have a second term. I'm going to see Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u218	I would like to return to the undesirable Iranian influence in the Netherlands. We've had two liquidations on Dutch soil. We have also seen activities in Denmark. We saw a failed attack in France, after which France imposed sanctions against the Iranian secret service. Is there any unwanted Iranian influence on Dutch soil?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u219	If there is reason to do so, Dutch services and the Dutch Government act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u220	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u221	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but still, you also guard the answers. My question was: is there any unwanted Iranian influence? I ask this, of course, because two Iranian diplomats have been deported and what we see in other European countries. I'd like to know the extent of the problem. I would also like to know whether the response we have from the European Union is sufficient. The Minister says in his written reply that we are discussing it in a European context. I'd like that. But what European actions and conclusions are there? What happens in the Netherlands? And how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u222	The Netherlands is working closely with other countries. I have also publicly indicated that the expulsion of two Iranian embassy staff involved information from the AIVD. However, as Mr Sjoerdsma knows, the work of the AIVD implies that a member of the cabinet must be very cautious in providing information in public. It has our full attention and we are also doing it in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u223	Thank you. Then we're... Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u224	On what Mrs Karabulut has just mentioned: Saudi Arabia and the possible arms embargo. The Minister then says: The influence of the Netherlands is relatively small there. But, of course, we are not in the UN Security Council to check what majorities are already for. You don't have to be on the UN Security Council for that. I understand that it is very difficult, but also in view of the motion we tabled this morning on the same subject in the VAO's report, I would say that starving should not be a weapon in wartime. We see that it does happen, with weapons still being delivered to Saudi Arabia. Someone's got to suggest that we argue that we stop supplying weapons to Saudi Arabia. At what point do you do that and even if it happens formally or informally, you can all know for yourself, but you can say somewhere: I am going to do that and I am going to make myself strong for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u225	Prime Minister Rutte and I have repeatedly pointed out that we would like to see this behaviour carried out by European countries, which was Mrs Karabulut's last question specifically about the European Union and shown worldwide. So there are those statements. We have often and extensively discussed this. I also outlined to you how important the employment interests of a number of countries are in the supply of arms. That is why there are public statements by government representatives from a number of countries, for example, I refer to Mr Macron's statement indicating the chances of reaching an arms embargo as Mr Van Helvert puts it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u226	Finally, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u227	Again, I understand that it is very difficult and that you are also not assured of success in the UN Security Council. But if you see what is going on in Yemen now: you could compare it with the fact that the whole of the Netherlands is suffering from famine, the food for all Dutch people is in the port of Rotterdam, but because there are some armed men there, that food does not come in the rest of the Netherlands. Then we would also beg and ask if anyone in that UN Security Council would at least suggest: boys, can we not just supply these weapons to Saudi Arabia, because with those weapons food in Rotterdam's port to the rest of the Netherlands is being stopped? Now this does not occur in the Netherlands, Rotterdam, but in Yemen. 17 million people who may be starving next week because the food is there but not there. Is it too much to ask to say, "We're going to suggest it?" I am not taking you into account, I say here, for your success, because I understand that there are other interests as well. But as a country of peace and security, as a country that says "never hunger should be a weapon in a war," can and should we say it in the UN Security Council? We're not just sitting there to see what majorities are for, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u228	Indeed, the hunger, the lack of access to medical facilities, is terrible. I have already indicated that, unfortunately, it has not even been possible to achieve this. So you're not even talking about the guns. It hasn't even worked out yet. There's some hope that's gonna happen now, no guarantee, any hope. I therefore believe that this should be the Dutch Government's first commitment, and that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u229	I had asked one more question, which has been answered in part in writing, some of which have not yet been answered, about Turkish interference in Syria and the interests that we too have to fight against ISIS there. The AIVD report says that the fact that Turkish interests do not always correspond to European priorities in the fight against terrorism is problematic. Does the Minister agree, along with the AIVD, with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u230	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u231	And is he willing to address the Turks on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u232	That has happened, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u233	Thank you. That was the government's first term. Mrs. Karabulut? Oh, you're gonna stop by. I thought there was still a question coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-15-tweedekamer-5.u234	I'm suspending the meeting until 1:45 p.m. Then we vote first, then we have the order of business and then we move on to the second term on the side of the Chamber and then on to the government.
