ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal 34716, Proposal for a law of Member Jetten amending the Constitution, aimed at the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. I would like to welcome Mr Jetten, the initiator of the legislative proposal, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Our Constitution must serve our democracy and our people, rather than being an unnecessary obstacle to legislative action on the power of government as a democratic parliament. Removing this obstacle strengthens democracy and the Constitution and contributes to a little more detail of popular sovereignty. But above all, the legislator can take a step towards the directly elected mayors and Commissioners of the King. That is what this initiative proposal can form the basis for. Where, for comparison, the French constitution is based on the government of the people, by the people and for the people, Article 131 of the Dutch Constitution passes the people and their representatives by regulating the appointment of mayors and Commissioners of the King by crown decision. Today, after 170 years, we can take the historic step to improve the Constitution in this respect, by allowing the legislator to regulate the way in which it is appointed. It cannot be said often enough that it was Thorbecke, as a designer of the 1848 Constitution, who did not want to regulate this method of appointment in the Constitution but wanted to give the legislator the freedom to do so by ordinary law. Under pressure from King Willem II, the method of appointment came into the Constitution. Since then, many state committees, in 1887, 1922, 1971 and 2000, have proposed to take this out of the Constitution, but the regentesque power elite always managed to stop this; the last time at the night of Van Thijn in 2005, in this Chamber. De Volkskrant then signed a few quotes by D66'ers at the Binnenhof, in response to the PvdA's shooting of this bill. I would like to quote these D66s: "Now we see again what the PvdA really is: an old regent party, which seeks to defend vested interests," according to former D66-Second MP Louisewies van der Laan. "Those are the bastards," said D66 party employees. "The fight against that kind of scum there," said then D66-Second MP Van der Ham over the Upper Chamber. "Once a rat, always a rat. This action, here tonight, is nothing less than premeditated murder.", said then D66 Minister Brinkhorst on Van Thijn's action. "The Backwards Party can no longer be followed," said then D66 senator Eddy Schuyer. And finally: "The PvdA is the champion of regentdom," said then D66 Minister Thom de Graaf, who then himself became unelected mayor of Nijmegen. Mr. Chairman. Let us hope that after the vote on this bill we do not have to hear such D66 tirades anymore and that the amendment of the constitution is now simply adopted. Otherwise, I am very curious whether Minister Ollongren and MP Jetten are also prepared to name the regentesque bugs. How much does this proposal weigh for D66? Do they have any consequences for the coalition? Can initiator Jetten report that? This bill is part of the government agreement of the Rutte cabinet. D66, in exchange for the continuation of this initiative, even sacrificed the consultative referendum in at least such a regent and villainous manner. Talk about premeditated murder! Can the Minister indicate how hard this appointment weighs for her as D66 Minister? Is this constitutional change so serious for the Minister that she is prepared to make the same consequences as her predecessor Thom de Graaf in 2005; by stepping down if the law should not be passed unexpectedly? Or does it have no consequences for the Minister and is she prepared to take over the title "Champion of Regency" from the PvdA? I'd like a response. As far as PVV is concerned, it is clear what we want. This constitutional change must continue and, in the case of legislation to be completed, we consciously opt for elected mayors and elected Commissioners of the King. As much direct democracy as possible, allowing the citizen himself to decide on who controls on his behalf, has already been the starting point of the PVV from the earliest start. I quote: 'Direct election by the people of the mayor with great powers, police commissioners in the big cities and members of the courts'. This was already read in 2005 in the Declaration of Independence of the Wilders Group; a position that we always support. Also at the first reading of this proposal in this Chamber in 2015, our group indicated: "As far as the PVV is concerned, we spoke here today about the direct election of both officials." It is therefore particularly regrettable that initiator D66 did not immediately go ahead with a proposal for directly elected officials and did not agree to this in the coalition agreement either. Sacrificing the referendum without making a hard agreement on the implementation of legislation for directly elected mayors and CdKs is a very weak deal. But even without a concrete plan for directly elected officials there is enough groaning from the pits of the self-satisfying government elite. Last week we were allowed to receive a call not to accept this proposal from the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Dutch Association for Council Members, the Dutch Society of Mayors and the Wethoudersvereniging. But on whose behalf and in whose interest do these backroom clubs actually speak? What do they base themselves on? The Association for Council Members seems to be able to speak for all council members. I haven't seen any consultation of their supporters while I'm a councilman myself. The same applies to the UNG. This attitude only clarifies the gap between citizens and the power elite and why direct democracy is very necessary. Besides, they're selling bullshit. I quote: "The mayor occupies a central, binding position in the municipal administration, which cannot be separated from the positions, roles, responsibilities of the other players and bodies in the municipal administration." Why should this central, binding position disappear by a directly elected mayor, let alone by the deconstitutionalisation that is now under way? Are constitutionally appointed mayors so binding? For example, how binding is CDA mayor Bruls van Nijmegen, who, in function with a lot of bombs, is reporting against Geert Wilders, just because he uses his freedom of speech? Is that binding to the many PVV voters in his municipality? Or PvdA mayor Waanders van Dokkum, who himself proactively tried to bring radical anti-black extremists to her city during the national Sinterklaas trek. Is that binding? And then there are the appointed mayors who call themselves salafist, or follower of Muslim brother Yusuf al-Qaradawi. Then you can just be appointed mayor, in a big city, where Islamization gets the upper hand at a murderous rate; all binding. Also, there are still disproportionately many PvdA mayors appointed, while the PVV as the second party in the Lower House is not mentioned. To whom is that binding? The party card still matters, even more so, is essential. Appointed mayors and CdKs are not independent but are strongly linked to party politics. If they are already above the parties as technical chairman, they also have their own political agenda. Many mayors also have a policy portfolio within the college, for example economics and international relations, for which some mayors, far beyond the borders of their own municipality, make many foreign business trips. While they are often abroad, or sometimes absent for a longer period of time due to illness, deputy mayors perform their duties. This concerns aldermen not appointed by the Crown. For this temporary replacement, sometimes for a longer period of time, of the mayor's duties, is the lack of the Crown appointment suddenly not a problem? Is it suddenly missing these deputy mayors from all the qualities that would result from a Crown appointment? Then the party nomenklatura still knows candidates who apply for mayor even in several municipalities at the same time. Instead of choosing one municipality out of conviction, there is a common bet on several horses. Because of the secrecy of the trust committees, citizens have no idea. For this reason alone, it would be much more open, honest and transparent to show the voters who are available and to let them decide who will be their mayor. In recent years, we saw unelected mayors and CdKs taking on a political role in the asylum invasion. They ensured that asylum seekers' centres, azc's, were pushed through in their municipalities and provinces. Mayors effectively put pressure on their council members to establish azc's. CdK's in turn put pressure on municipalities to take in asylum seekers and house azc's. In doing so, they constantly called on their task as a ruler to eliminate the control by Provincial States. In doing so, they themselves pursued a regently political policy, without democratic framework and control from their own province. Never mind that citizens were immediately heard about this forced asylum invasion. It is precisely for this reason that direct choice of directors is important, so that citizens can direct and pay for themselves. Mr. Chairman. In many other countries, the population can choose its directors directly. The Netherlands is an exception in our neighbouring countries. Last week, in the US, we saw civilians go to the ballot box in long rows to choose their governors directly. Governors of states with far greater powers than the King's Commissioners in our country. That's gonna work fine over there. And if a governor doesn't perform well, the voters can vote him out. In the meantime, if a governor turns out to be a failure, voters in some states will also have the opportunity to launch a recall procedure through a petition, with which a governor can be voted down, for example the governor of California in 2003, after a large-scale electricity crisis. Democracy in optima forma! Why not in the Netherlands? In the Netherlands we don't have to be afraid of loss of quality, which is often screened with. Whether there's an appointed mayor or an elected mayor, our state system of vertical supervision is simply regulated. The government can intervene on the supervisory ladder in municipalities and, in the extreme case, move to entry in the event of job neglect. So this doesn't have to be an argument to abandon an elected mayor. On the contrary, as far as the PVV is concerned, we are going to do so as quickly as possible, we are going to give the citizens their vote back and we can certainly support this proposal as a step in this direction. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Madam President. The main question before us today in this debate is whether the position of the mayor and the King's Commissioner is of constitutional order. I am speaking here only about the mayor, and I only mention the Commissioner if there is something different to be said about it. Mr. Chairman. In the state-law literature, it is generally believed that the method of appointment of the mayor is not of constitutional order. In this context, it should be noted that, apart from the recognition of the mayor's office as part of the College and as a separate administrative body and the method of appointment, the Constitution does not say anything about his position, dismissal and the range of tasks. The only requirement relating to the position and powers of the mayor concerned the appointment of the mayor as chairman of the council. This provision was deleted from the Constitution in 2008. The independence of the mayor is not reflected in the Constitution, but can be derived from the legal functions and powers conferred on the mayor. The practice developed since 2001 is a factor determining whether the status of the mayor still needs to be laid down in the Constitution. In Article 61, the Municipal Act contains a procedure in which the city council, the commissioner as the state body and the minister of BZK must take a number of steps to achieve a constitutionally prescribed appointment by royal decree. In that procedure, the Board's control has actually been maximized. The Minister shall be deemed to follow the recommendation of the Council in his nomination to the Council of Ministers, unless there are serious grounds for deviation. Since this situation has not occurred so far and is not expected to occur soon, a material mayor appointed by the Council can be discussed. This procedure and the practice followed on that basis make the Crown appointment largely a formality. The meaning of the constitutionally guaranteed Crown designation can therefore now be strongly relied upon. For this reason, too, it is not possible. It is no longer necessary to insist that the Constitution should express its opinion on the way in which the mayor is appointed. It is not for nothing that the State Committee on Dualism and Democracy concluded in 2000 with convincing arguments that the arrangement of the mayor's appointment should be a matter for the legislator. The need for unity of government in the relationship between the three levels of government, which was still at issue in 1848, now has different and more effective legal bodies. When it comes to the absorption of changes in public administration practice in general and the evolution of the mayor's office in particular, an adjustment of formal regulation as indicated should not fall on a constitutional straitjacket. The fact that on 23 March 2005 a proposal for deconstitutionalisation in this Chamber did not achieve the two-thirds majority required by second reading does not alter these findings. The objections raised in that debate were largely related to the fact that legislative proposals were already in preparation for the introduction of a directly elected mayor. In my group's view, however, it is not possible to conclude with this reference either that the method of appointment of the mayor of constitutional order would be the same. Moreover, it is striking that the Constitution does not regulate the dismissal of the mayor. This element is apparently not of constitutional order, unlike, for example, the resignation of officials whose appointment is governed by the Constitution. By stating in the proposal that not only the appointment, but now also the suspension and dismissal of the mayor will take place in a manner to be determined by law, they in themselves retain not insignificant issues for the legal status of mayor, moreover still a constitutional basis. Madam President. My group understands in itself the tendency to combine the question of the constituentity of the mayor's method of appointment with the question of what modality should then be chosen in the case of a destitutionalisation. We believe, with the initiator and the government acting on behalf of the House of Representatives, that the proposed constitutional change should not be entrusted in advance with ideological-dogmatic views on possible follow-up steps to be developed by the legislator. As far as my group is concerned, the question of possible follow-up steps must therefore be addressed openly. In our view, it is not automatic either that the legislator decides on a different method of appointment. This debate should take place in the light of the development of the mayor's office in recent years and the changes that have occurred more generally within local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u6	I have a question for Mr Engels. We know he was associate professor of state law. He also started with state law in his argument. So I think I've come to the right place. I have a question that I have also asked the author, but which has not been answered. I am going to ask him that question again today, but I am also asking Mr Engels. Does he know precedents of cases that were removed from the Constitution without knowing what would replace it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u7	Before Mr. Engels answers, I think Mr. Engels is a professor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u8	Madam President. He was a professor and has also been a special professor, but he has also been a university principal from 2001 to 2017, by my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u9	I've been a lot more, so I'd like you to keep going. Then that can also be included in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u10	But he's now with emeritate, for my taste, and mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u11	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u12	Yeah, but then you keep the title professor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u13	It is a pity, in that respect, that your question all contains inaccuracies. Anyway, none of that matters. The only precedent I have mentioned is if it is already a precedent, because I do not think it is. Let us say that there is not always a system in line with the Constitution when it comes to the question of whether we are going to constitutionalise or whether we are going to deconstitutionalise. The reasons for this are very diverse, very differentiated. There are many examples of this in practice. Sometimes it is a partial revision, sometimes it is more of an overall revision. Sometimes things were institutionalized. Then the question is not at all what will replace it. And sometimes there's deconsulation. The only relevant example for this debate, which I have wanted to mention, is the deconstitutionalisation of the Council Presidency by the mayor. This was merely a deconstitutionalisation. The city law still assumes that the mayor is chairman of the council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u14	I can certainly follow Mr Engels' speech. Only, the examples he mentions were all grounded, because there was another law, another intention or something like that. But my question was: is there a precedent for a change to the Constitution, for something we get out of it without wanting to name or know what will replace it? That is actually the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u15	I don't have one-two-three examples of that, but I'm sure you have them yourself. Otherwise, you wouldn't ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u16	I'm very inquisitive. I don't know. That makes it so clear why we should think about whether we should change the Constitution at the moment or get anything out of it, without knowing what will replace it. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u17	I understand that's the background to your question. I'm gonna get on with that, too. However, the fact that a particular element is removed from the Constitution does not mean that it remains irregular. There is always a division of labour between the Constitution and the legislator. That is also true in this case. So as far as I'm concerned, it's not so relevant to know whether something always comes in place in advance or not. At the moment we are going to deconstitutionalise, we are keeping the existing procedure. And that's all that's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Schalk, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u19	I actually hear the same thing that the petitioner in the House of Representatives has always said: 'that's all there is to it'. But my idea, certainly from this First Chamber, would be that that should make us very, very concerned. The next question I would like to put to Mr Engels. Shouldn't we be here in this Chamber as guardians of the Constitution to make sure that we know where we want to go before we change the Constitution on a certain point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u20	No, I don't. Moreover, as far as I am concerned, even in your speech, this is not a constitutional question but a political one. My answer to that is clear: no, you don't have to. I shall come back to why, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u21	The D66 election programme states that this party is for a directly elected mayor. I have a simple question. Does D66 still support his own election programme on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u22	The election programme is an election programme for the Lower House elections. This means that we do know what is in the electoral programme. I would add that we also have an idea of what is in the coalition agreement. But I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats assesses legislative proposals, including legislative proposals to amend the Constitution, on their own merits. I am going to try to explain in a moment that questions about a future picture of the mayor's position, as far as we are concerned, are not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u23	D66 was once founded because politics was so foggy, so unclear. The system had to explode. Now I have a very simple question. In the D66 election programme there is a directly elected mayor. I am simply asking the Dutch Prime Minister: does he support this point from his own election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u24	The D66 electoral programme is, of course, a programme which does not contain anything that I say in advance that I do not agree with. But as far as we are concerned, the debate on whether or not to change the position of a mayor has yet to take place. My party will undoubtedly make its contribution to this. This is not happening here, but in the Lower House or elsewhere. Again, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u25	Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u26	No, Mr. English may speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u27	Once again, as far as we are concerned, the discussion is purely about the deconstitutionalisation of the method of appointment. I have no need, and neither do my group, to discuss what should happen afterwards. This discussion is far too important and too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u28	Finally, Mr. Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u29	Finally, a little bit of media training. Mr Engels could have also said that the electoral programme is clear; I agree with that and it is not the subject at the moment. That would have been a little clearer for the voters, for the media. Maybe this lesson will help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u30	No, the media training I took indicated that I should have just given the answer I gave, and not the answer you gave. Mr. Chairman. I suppose I should move on. The political reality is that the current constitutional anchoring of the crown designation is this open debate that I have just referred to and hinders its necessity, because the existing figure contains elements that match political preferences and administrative interests. In other words, the debate on the method of appointment is dominated by a final view, whether or not it is desired, and that fact determines to a large extent the assessment of whether the present figure should be deconsulated. The D66 Group is fully prepared to respond to the demand by consulted experts, interest groups, advisory bodies and some groups for a comprehensive problem analysis of local government and a vision of its organisation. In other words, if we are asked first to determine which city council we are in favour of in the Netherlands and which mayor is in favour of it, we certainly want to support it in itself. We can also agree with the approach that first develops a future perspective for the municipal administration and that, in this context, the position of the mayor and the manner of appointment associated with it are taken into account. We also have no objection to the fact that the discussion on the existing or any other method of appointment is structured and is considered in conjunction with the role and position of the mayor in the existing or in an adapted local governance model. After all, it is clear that local democracy has been moving strongly for a few years. There is plenty of experimentation with a multitude of new democratic instruments. This development also raises the question of the future of local government, the relationship between the municipal bodies and the position of the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u31	It is interesting to know that Mr Engels of D66 is interested in such an investigation, but why should it have any influence on the positioning of D66? As has just been recalled, you have in your program that you are simply for an elected mayor. Then why let it depend on other factors? Or, after such an investigation, will you bend your position in a completely different direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u32	It's all still hidden in the future. You're always trying, like others, to move me into a discussion about the future model, but I'm not going to do that. I did not learn this in media training, because this is far too direct. But I'm not gonna do it. I'll just say why I don't, because I'm barely on my way with that. So you can ask what you want, but you won't get an answer from me. Moreover, it is only the question whether the answer I would give is also the position that our group, as well as other parts of our party, would take in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u33	Mr Engels made an advance on this discussion by referring to such an investigation into the operation of local democracy in the broad sense. So if you're going to presort on that, you're actually already indirectly steering. I would simply like to ask you the question: if such an investigation is to take place, will you simply remain in principle at the D66 starting point that there should be an elected mayor? Or is that even something that can water down for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u34	I don't know where you're getting that from. It's not just an investigation. The question that has been put to the Chamber here, from various angles, including from fellow groups, is that the position of the mayor is on the move, that the method of appointment is also on the move, that the local government is on the move. And the question is to what extent deconstitutionalisation should or should not be linked to a final picture. My group has a very clear opinion on this. Your questions focus precisely on that part of the speech I am not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u35	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u36	Then I will wait for the rest of your speech and, if necessary, respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u37	I understand that Mr Engels says that he has no objection to it or, in a positive way, that he is right to hold a debate on developments in local democracy, the local system and hence the position of mayor and his way of appointment. Fine. All I understand is that he says he wants to do that after the decision to deconstitutionalise has been taken. Now he knows there are a lot of objections to that cut. Can Mr Engels explain to me why the first thing we need to do is become a terrible word 'decon-institutionalized' before we can have that debate, which we both want? My second question is: can Mr Engels imagine that the outcome of that debate could be that not only Article 131 should be amended as you wish, but that it could lead to more changes to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u38	I just got the answer to that first question. What's with the haircut? Are there any other constitutional changes possible? Yeah, in theory, they're possible. I do not want to take an advance on the substance of this follow-up debate, but there are many possible variations to the current method of appointment. You know that, too. The current method of appointment itself is also part of this. Indeed, it is not excluded in advance that a particular variant may be affected by the current constitutional provisions, apart from the crown designation that we now know. So that's not out of the question. The question of the constituentity of a possible variant comes very early, because it depends entirely on how we would conduct such a follow-up debate. Then there is the question as to what conclusions will be drawn from such a follow-up debate. At the end of the day, the question arises as to what that means for the appointment of the mayor, after which the question arises as to whether it fits into the current constitutional regime or not. So I really can't take an advance on that. It is not clear to me what modality it will be, if there will already be a modality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u39	I understand that, but would it not be wise to have that debate first and only after it has been completed to see what changes to the Constitution are necessary? Why are we going to amend one article, knowing that other articles may need to be changed in the long term, even if that is a little dependent on the final outcome of that debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u40	I wanted to explain that too. Nevertheless, I would like to answer the question. I repeat that, first of all, we do not know at all whether conclusions will ultimately be drawn in a follow-up debate concerning the way in which the mayor is appointed, which should then also have constitutional consequences. So that's all very open. I shall come back to the reason why we want to cut the deconstitutionalisation and follow-up debate. I was just running into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u41	Mr. Kuiper, would you like to speak now? Oh, yes, Mrs. Vlietstra needs to move back first. It's helping. Mrs Vlietstra, you can also get a table with a microphone, but then you are not in the picture at the interruptions. Okay, if that's how it's gonna be, it's okay. Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u42	I would indeed like to join this debate and the question to Mr Engels. He talked about a future debate and said that it should be "fed" by a vision of the future. I thought that was his word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u43	No, not fed. The outcome must be a vision of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u44	Do you think that should be fed... Well, who's next? That's my question. Is that supposed to be the Minister's next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u45	That's not up to me. Several sides have asked for a follow-up debate or a previous debate on the position of the mayor in the broadest sense of the word. I have already indicated that my group is prepared to hold that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u46	It is, of course, to be expected that the legislator will be inclined once the method of appointment is out of the Constitution. That is what we are discussing today. It is expected that this will happen of course. I assume and believe that this is self-evident to you, too, that this will be the Minister's decision. It will then have to present us with something which states that a possible method of appointment will soon either change or be confirmed in the legislation, so it will remain as it already is. That's my picture of that. I also assume that other constitutional articles will no longer be amended, not even those that speak of the head of the council or anything like that. You yourself said that you can already see from the Constitution that the mayor is in an independent position. Can you imagine that the current method of appointment, in the sense of the way in which it is conducted, not the crowning title, will be confirmed once again when the Minister is involved and comes up with a vision? You call it one of the variants, but it is an important variant of the vision that will be presented to us shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u47	I'm just trying to keep it simple. I have said that my group is prepared to take part in a follow-up debate. Our Constitution sets out those who can take legislative initiatives, if that is the case. That could be either the House of Representatives or the government. I have no need at all at the moment to urge anyone to come forward with legislation. I think that legislation is a step that comes only after the debate on developments in local government and in the position of the mayor in particular. So I am in the process of explaining that we are prepared to have an open debate on this. Once again, I am not ready to take a so-called advance here, in any way, on the outcome of such a discussion. As far as I'm concerned, he has an open ending.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u48	Finally, Mr. Kuiper. And briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u49	Technically, that's all entirely correct. I didn't expect anything different from the professor either. It's all true. But, of course, it is also a matter of trying each other a little bit politically about what will happen later, also to gain confidence in what we will eventually vote for or against today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u50	Sure, I'm not shy of politics at all. I certainly have images of certain modalities. I just mentioned that, too. There are political preferences and administrative interests. I have read all these documents in the run-up to this legislative process, including those on the follow-up debate. There have also been statements about the preferences for the current procedure or a possible other procedure. Once again, my group will undoubtedly have preferences, but today we want to speak purely about whether it should remain in the Constitution as it is. I am going to put that into more detail in this debate, but there is another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u51	Yes, to the English politician. I say this for the sake of clarity, otherwise the functions are very mixed up. He pleads for an open debate. I get that. He also has an election program that he's not bound by. I understand that, too. Does the English politician still have a number of conditions or criteria that he wants to give to that open debate? The fact that the outcome is open is a little different from the fact that you don't give a few things in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u52	This sounds like an excuse, but I'm going to serve you. I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u53	You may also use it briefly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u54	I have a build-up in my speech. The point you're referring to is down the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u55	We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u56	I think you're gonna hear it, Mr. Lintmeijer. It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u57	The question is, of course, whether you will like it, but that is a second. Mr. Chairman. Anyway, all this about that debate, in the end my group will come back to the essential question of this debate. Although my group acknowledges the relevance of the questions and dilemmas surrounding the method of appointment referred to above, it remains of the opinion that we should continue to distinguish between the question at issue today whether the appointment of the mayor is of constitutional order and the question whether, and if so, how it should then be or could be in a legal form. That is a question of constitutional purity for my group. And for the record, my group considers, first of all, that the way in which the mayor is appointed as such should not be mandatory in the Constitution. Secondly, we believe that deconstitutionalisation cannot wait until a comprehensive vision of the future of mayorship has been developed. After all, it must be avoided that the Constitution is used as a means of fighting in the debate on the questions and problems surrounding the future of local government and the position of the mayor in it. We therefore believe that this debate can and should be conducted in an open manner only after the deconstitutionalisation of the current crown appointment. On this point, therefore, my group differs fundamentally from those who wish to reverse this order. For the record, I would like to point out that, following the implementation of the proposed de-constitutionalisation, the current appointment procedure will be maintained on a legal basis. I would like to ask the initiator if he shares our observations and conclusions on this point. I'm not gonna tell you what the answer is. Mr. Chairman. Without wishing to make an advance on the substance of the debate on a possible adjustment of the method of appointment after the planned deconstitutionalisation, I would like to give the Minister a number of points of state-law concern for the follow-up discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u58	I have another question about the order just indicated by Mr Engels. He has indicated that he prefers the deconstitutionalisation to take place and that there should then be a vision for the future, followed by further steps. That means it would take you as long as you turn it around. It also means doing it safer when you turn it around, namely: first that debate and then from the Constitution. That takes exactly the same length of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u59	It's not interesting at all how long it takes. The question we are dealing with here is a very fundamental question of substance, namely how we can conduct this debate on the future of the mayor in a good and orderly manner and also on the way in which we are appointed. From your questioning point of view, I understand that you do not agree at all with the opinion of my group. I'm sure you're in the opposite position. It's okay to do that, too. I think I have been very clear in the explanation why we think that cut should be made. Let me go a little further than I was planning. If I have any idea where you stand with regard to the position and manner of appointment of the mayor, then I understand very well that you are not waiting for a deconstitutionalisation. But that you want to maintain the status quo cannot be an argument for saying to another group: if you want to go another way, you must follow the same line. We want an open debate. By open I mean: not with a biased view on whether the current method of appointment suits you or not or that you would even want to go back to the past. I'm telling you the same thing openly. However, this is hampered by the fact that the current method of appointment is contained in the Constitution. This means that the Constitution will become part of a substantive and therefore politicised and administrative debate. We want to take that stamp off because otherwise you won't have an open discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u60	I understand Mr Engels' reasoning, but I would like to put the following to him. At the time when his wish was to de-constitutionalise, so that we could have the debate afterwards, that debate would not have to be discussed at all. Because he agrees with me, isn't that a question to him that, at the moment when the constitutionalisation is a fact, the legislator could come up with a legislative proposal, but also any MP with an initiative law? Without any debate on the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u61	It is not up to me or my group to stop this, but I did make it quite clear in my speech that my group would prefer us to reflect on what we think about the state of local government at the moment and whether we have an opinion on the developments that have been taking place and coming towards us. We then involve them in our assessment of the position of the mayor, whose manner of appointment is only one aspect. The position of the mayor is about his duties and powers and about relations with other administrative bodies. My group is in favour of doing this in a somewhat orderly way and of trying to be system-compliant and not to come up with wild cowboy solutions that can be brought directly into the debate by anyone. What I am trying to say here is that my group has been sensitive to those who have indicated in advance in this debate that they would like to have this fundamental discussion in the broadest sense. My group also wants to do so, but I would like to make it quite clear that my group does not think there is much point in starting this debate and then thinking again about de-constitutionalisation, because we do not have an open debate. I assume, when I hear your speech later, that your speech will actually confirm it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u62	Mr. Schalk, finally. And may I also ask Mr Engels to reply briefly, if it is at all possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u63	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u64	And I will be brief, Madam President. I see that cowboylasso circling right around the mayor and the Queen's commissioner... Recovery: the king's commissioner, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u65	I fully understand Mr Schalk's fears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u66	I understand that Mr Engels sees the constitutional provision as an obstacle to a completely free debate on the implementation of the mayor's office and what is attached thereto. It is not entirely clear to me what that is based on. It is clear that this provision makes a great deal possible, including as regards changes to the appointment procedures and in the position of the mayor. Where exactly does Mr Engels see the obstacles in a free discussion about changes in the system, as long as that constitutional provision exists? Is that constitutional provision the obstacle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u67	Another question precedes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u68	Perhaps Mrs Vlietstra can ask a question following this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u69	Yes, but then I forget Mr Ten Hoeve's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u70	I wanted to ask the same question. I was triggered by the concept of battle axe which Mr Engels uses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u71	Battle axe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u72	Yes, you mentioned that in your speech somewhere. I wrote it down. So you assume that we will end up in all kinds of unwanted fights at the time when we are going to have such a debate, prior to what you call pure deconstitutionalisation. Like Mr Ten Hoeve, I would like you to explore that point a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u73	That's good. I've used the word "conflict," which is different from "conflict axe."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u74	Excuse me... means of combat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u75	But let me start with Mr Ten Hoeve's question. The question that precedes his question is, of course, the fundamental question: is the method of appointment of the mayor of constitutional order or not? Is that an element that belongs in the Constitution or should be regulated by the constitution? I have made that clear: that is not the case. Then there is the question: if you do not think that is the case, when should the deconstitutionalisation take place? I've been clear about that, too. It is precisely because of the call for a fundamental debate on this mayor that I am not going to mention all these aspects that we find an obstacle if the current method of appointment remains in the Constitution. This is because if there is a debate and conclusions are subsequently drawn on a method of appointment, the existing procedure will have a different basis than possible other methods of appointment, as long as this provision is in the Constitution. In practice, and especially in this Chamber, I do not always want to refer to the previous debate, which has shown that the fact that you need a two-thirds majority for a constitutional change can be used politically to have a preference or not for a solution. This is a relevant element in the political debate and in the political decision-making process. I'm very open about that, too. That is precisely why we say that this deconstitutionalisation is a matter of its own accord, which in our view should not be mixed or intertwined with a discussion about any other method of appointment, and at all about the position of the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u76	Then Mr Van Hattem. That is the last interruption on this point, because I would like to give Mr Engels the opportunity to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u77	I fully understand Mr Engels that we must first avoid discussing the fact that the Constitution should not be allowed to do so. I think it's a good move to take now. But on the subject of the follow-up, I hear you saying that we should not come up with cowboy solutions. What exactly do you mean by cowboy solutions? If the citizen suddenly has something to say right away, is that a cowboy solution? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u78	Mr Schalk spoke of a lasso, and I understand that now. The context in which I gave the answer in question was: when should the legislator be addressed? Should the legislator immediately take an initiative, either from the Lower House or from the government? I said: no, the question that has been put to us here in the run-up to the debate is to first have a substantive debate and then see if and if so what legislation is needed. I have added that, as far as I am concerned, it is not preferable, before the debate, to come from any angle, with all kinds of rapid solutions, that is to say, to respond to the fact that there has been a destitutionalisation. In that context, I used the word "cowboy." It was a procedural comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u79	I fully understand Mr Engels that he does not see directly electing the mayor and the King's Commissioner by the citizen as a cowboy solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u80	No, because I would have made a substantive comment, and that is not the intention. I was in the process of taking a good run to serve my good colleague Mr Lintmeijer by pointing out that I would not like to take a substantive advance for this follow-up discussion, but would like to give some of the points of concern of the state. I would therefore add, for the sake of clarity, that these are not political elements that determine our voting behaviour on this bill. My group believes that it is important, as part of the First Chamber, which in our view has a special responsibility as a constitutional conscience in our state system, to share responsibility and bear responsibility for a constitutional and coherent follow-up debate. The establishment and operation of local government is based on a number of essential structural principles and fixed values. These principles include principles such as local autonomy, local democracy, the final responsibility of the city council and a college of B and W based on political and administrative collegiality. Among the established values, as I call them, are the independence and impartiality of the mayor, who are legally reflected in, among other things, the powers conferred on him in the field of public order and security and, for example, the monitoring of the integrity of local government. These structural principles and fixed values are the characteristics of what is called the independence of the mayor's office. In this context, we would like to know from the Minister to what extent she is prepared to include these constitutional principles in a possible follow-up debate on the future position of the mayor, including the way in which he is appointed. In doing so, I hope to have served Mr Lintmeijer and have concluded my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. In the early 1980s, there was a mayor's vacation in the village where I was alderman. The possibility of setting up a trust committee for this was then a novel. The city council of Teteringen thanked for this, on the one hand for the confidence in the insights of the then commissioner of the King Dries of Agt, but on the other for distrust. "They do what they want," was the credo. But it has to be said that the mayor appointed outside the city council was the right man at the right time. Almost twenty years later, September 2001, I was appointed mayor of Oosterhout by the Crown, after consulting the Committee on Trust and then nomination of the Queen's Commissioner. For a number of years I lived on the assumption that I had to be elected for a further term, but recently the city council of Oosterhout proposed a successor for my successor to the minister for appointment by the Chamber. We now know a de facto mayor elected by the council. It's been said before. Anyone may apply and be supported and advised by the King's Commissioner a selection is made for the interviews. The board decides. How? That is secret, because after some experiments the double public presentation and the mayor's referendum has also been abolished. The Minister may differ in theory, but then something really is going on and the confidence committee has done a bad job. From all the reports, reactions and letters that we have received over the past few years and also over the past few weeks, and in any case have been published, the satisfaction of this appointment seems great, especially in the light of the current tasks of the mayor, because the linking of administrative powers and responsibilities to this independent officer has significantly changed the role of the mayor in the security domain compared to a few years ago. The local government itself is also on the move. The Minister's letter on strengthening public administration bears witness to this. In order to maintain and, if possible, strengthen the fragile balance in local government, this clarity about position, competence and coherence between council, college and the independent mayor is more important than ever. A large number of interested parties are wondering how this independence can be secured in a different way and are very concerned about this. The fear, and sometimes the expectation, that the expiry of Article 131 will weaken this guarantee is not unrealistic and is in fact at the heart of this debate, as was the case with the own-initiative proposal Schouw on 21 April 2015. At that time, this Chamber considered the connection between the mayor's method of appointment and the functioning of local government, the significance of Article 125 of the Constitution in this respect and the independent position of the mayor, so cherished by everyone, which is still enshrined in Article 131. Mr. Chairman. In dealing with the Schouw initiative proposal, my group was particularly concerned about the lack of a final perspective. However, during the discussion, the reaction and the commitments made by the then Minister expressed so much confidence that on 28 April 2015 the VVD Group unanimously agreed to the proposal to consider the amendment of Article 131 of the Constitution, by noting that a final position would be determined only at second reading on the basis of the current state of affairs and knowledge. So that's today. I quote: 'The VVD has taken good note of the Minister's commitment to come to the end of the discussion of the second reading of this Constitutional Amendment and to send a letter of procedure on how he will deal with this process as an active director in the near future'. The then minister then became a passionate director and actually started to ask all parties, experts, advisory councils and so on about the past, present and future of the local government and the position of the mayor in it. Externally, committees were also set up to prepare for the debate on the final image so desired. I myself, like the Minister, at that time in a completely different capacity, was part of the Committee on Future-oriented Local Government. That was very interesting, but where did all those discussions, reports, letters, advice, those piles of paper, those efforts and expectations lead to? Without doubt, they have led to interesting reflections, scenarios inspiring thoughts and solid building blocks for the future, for later. So they're all on the shelf until something's done with it. Does this mean that the Minister is going to take a stand, give a vision on it, or is she going to base policy on it? Her predecessor carefully laid the groundwork with his letter of 25 November 2016. That gave my group cause for optimism and confidence, but then it became deafeningly silent on this subject. Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group are, of course, politically realistic enough to know that this government will not come up with any proposals to make drastic cuts in the entire local administration, including the way the mayor is appointed. Just to be clear, it doesn't have to be from the VVD. We have never argued that, not even in April 2015. We do not want any more and no less than the possible deconstitutionalisation to be seen in a broader perspective than it is from time to time. That's a very thin argument for constitutional change. I cannot ignore the question of Article 125, the second pillar on which local democracy has so far been based. Is it from time to time, too? Don't 131 and 125 keep each other in a shaky balance? Mr. Chairman. During the examination of the Schouw initiative proposal, my group asked three basic questions which, as far as it is concerned, are the basis for the amendment of the constitution. Unfortunately, the answers given by the then initiator and minister did not provide much support so that I would ask these questions again on behalf of my group. In short, these are the following questions. Are there any legal and/or social reasons justifying an amendment to the Constitution? What does this change mean? Does it make an obvious better contribution to the social interest? The commitments made by the Minister in the plenary debate at the time, in order to take an active lead in order to get a final picture, gave confidence in clarity and concrete answers, in particular to questions two and three, and in the discussion of the present proposal. In doing so, once again, we were not referring to legislative proposals adopted, but at least to a vision of the steps that will be taken and to which they should lead. The answers to the why questions were limited to generalities, as I have already said, and the view that the method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner no longer belongs in the Constitution at this time. I concluded from the words of Mr Engels just now that they have never heard of them at home. And, yes, of course Thorbecke wouldn't have wanted it either. Also initiator Jetten repeats this argument with this proposal. In fact he says: first take this bump and then we'll see again. But what could the intended purpose be other than that it would then be easier to change the method of appointment? And again, what social interest is served by this? Why should it be changed? And with that, the circle is all over again. After three and a half years, we have to re-assess the balance sheet in a different composition. The written examination of the present initiative proposal did not provide sufficient guidance to conclude that our conditions for agreement were met or that we could at least consider them easily. With a bit of optimism, it could be said that the letter from the Minister of the Interior of November 2016 provides some guidance, but still the starting points, conditions and certainty of the independence of the mayor in any other form of appointment are by no means established. That is why today's debate must bring clarity, certainty and confidence to the VVD Group. I am mainly addressing the Minister. That the initiator answers our repeated pressing questions about usefulness, necessity and follow-up in the same way as his predecessor, we even respect and understand, but it does not bring us as a VVD group much further. Mr. Chairman. In the vote on the first reading, the VVD Group was unanimous...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u83	A question to Mrs Huijbregts as a speaker on behalf of the VVD Group, a originally liberal party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u84	It's a liberal party, Mr. Van Hattem. To correct that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u85	So you say. The point is that you have great doubts as to whether you would like this constitutional change, the deconstitution of the method of appointment. But I referred to it later, and you mentioned it yourself: it was the liberal Thorbecke who wanted it not to come into the Constitution in 1848. It could be arranged by ordinary law. After 170 years of discussion, after many state committees where it has been advised to take this out of the Constitution, the VVD as a self-liberalist party is now questioning whether this should be done out of the Constitution. Where are your principles? Where is the image of Thorbecke, which should be of great value to you as a liberal party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u86	I could almost say: if it has lasted 150 years, it may take some time. But I'm not saying that. I'm just asking you to be patient and wait for our final weighing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u87	I would like to wait for your final weighing, with love and pleasure, but the point is that you are already creating great doubt. Apparently, for the VVD, the idea of deconstitutionalisation alone is a question of doubt. Why doubt about that, why so much hesitation, when almost the founder of the liberal movement in the Netherlands, Thorbecke, presented it so emphatically 170 years ago and it was only stopped by old conservative forces, among other things, by the King? Surely this must be the ultimate opportunity for the VVD to finally implement this after 170 years, finally let Thorbecke's spirit blow through this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u88	I will repeat the facts for Mr Van Hattem, because he was not there in 2015. At that time, the VVD unanimously approved the first reading of the amendment of the Constitution, with an explanation of vote, following the discussion in this Chamber, which assumes that, today, when the second reading was discussed, there would be more concreteness about the follow-up steps. We consider whether or not this has been met, whether we have confidence in the follow-up steps. That is what the debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u89	Mr. Van Hattem, short, but not again that story about Thorbecke 170 years ago. We know that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u90	Oh, it's been 170 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u91	No, I won't go back 170 years again. The point is that you are making some kind of condition, perhaps even a serious condition to agree to it. Why the doubt? That's actually a very simple question. Why do you doubt that amendment of the Constitution when it has so often been demonstrated that it is a necessary step, even an improvement in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u92	We, like Mr Engels, assign a number of important values to the mayor's office. Firstly, let me put it under the core concept of independence, and secondly, the coherence of the mayor's method of appointment with the totality of the local government. These are two important elements that we want to secure in the discussion below. This has already been committed in April 2015; it is not something that we have invented in recent weeks. We are very consistent in our approach and way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u93	I'm trying to follow what's being put on behalf of the VVD. Do I understand now that the VVD believes that the current appointment of the mayor in Article 131 of the Constitution, a crown appointment, is a guarantee of the independence of the mayor, and that if that provision were deleted, the independence of the mayor, whatever it might be, would be threatened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u94	That's a risk. That could be a risk. In this debate, it is up to us to do what we can to build confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u95	I still don't understand. If there were independence of the mayor, you would derive it from the functions and powers of the mayor in ordinary law, not from the Constitution. That's where this is gonna be. This ordinary law can be changed by a single majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u96	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u97	You may speak for a moment, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u98	Then why is the current method of appointment in the Constitution a guarantee for that independent position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u99	That's the only surety there is right now. The question is whether this independence can be guaranteed in a new form after the constitutionalisation. This is one of our main concerns, one of our important conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u100	Finally, Mr Köhler, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u101	I'm gonna try one more time. I understand very well that this is very important for the VVD Group, but what I do not understand is that independence is regulated by ordinary law and that it would be at stake if the method of appointment was removed from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u102	No, no, no, that's not what I mean. Mr Köhler also knows that I do not mean that. If it remains only with a constitutional change and the ordinary law continues unchanged, then this method of appointment remains in place. But the point is, of course, that deconstitutionalisation doesn't just come out of the sky after 170 years, and that's why we're biting each other in the tail. If Thorbecke thought this was an unnecessary article of the constitution 170 years ago, it is of course a little strange that it took us all 170 years to change it. So the expectation, if I may put it this way, that a discussion about the method of appointment will come next is, of course, very real. We want the values that we assign to the mayor's position to be guaranteed in this debate on a new method of appointment. Is it that obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u103	Mr. Van Hattem, one interruption, and I don't want to talk about 170 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u104	That was a long time ago, wasn't it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u105	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna stick to the present. Mrs. Huijbregtse talks about the independence of the mayor. What does this independence mean, according to Mrs Huijbregtse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u106	Huijbregts!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u107	Huijbregts. Let me emphasise it a little more clearly. What specific elements demonstrate this independence? What values do they show? There are enough elements to indicate this independence, because a party political background is still a major factor in the appointment of a mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u108	Absolutely not. No, the city council chooses and the city council does not choose on political background; the city council chooses the person best suited to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u109	No, Mr. Van Hattem, I said one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u110	But what independence...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u111	No, Mr. Van Hattem, it's done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u112	Mr President, I repeat. The VVD Group was unanimous in voting on the first reading, which is different at the beginning of this plenary debate. You won't be surprised. In April 2015, the prospect of a vision of a final picture bound my group and also the confidence that clear answers to our questions would have been given at second reading. Well, that hasn't happened yet. I'm telling you honestly how the flag hangs now. Then it's obvious. The initiator and the minister then know where they stand and that there is work to be done with regard to the VVD Group. In my group, there are three currents, three thoughts. I don't give numbers, but when I say they're fairly evenly distributed, and with thirteen that's pretty tricky, I give an honest view. As you know, four of the 13 members of the VVD were crown-appointed mayors, but their opinions differ for the time being. A few Members are in principle opposed to a constitutional change without stronger social reasons than those that have been formulated so far and without being clear as to what this should lead to. In short, all three questions are answered negatively. Another part is not fundamentally opposed, but lacks the insight into the final image and the confidence in securing the values of the mayor's office, which they wish to retain. Other members consider that the harvest is poor, but that the arguments put forward by the initiator for constitutional change are valid. Unanimously, however, my group believes that, should the destitutionalisation become a reality, the follow-up discussion should be organised very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u113	I can hear you coughing. Take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u114	Yeah, I'll take a sip. It's not emotion. I said that the follow-up discussion should be organised very carefully and should address demands, expectations and the social significance of the mayor and, above all, that the method of appointment should be considered in relation to the functioning of local government. In the case of de-constitutionalisation, the first thing is to think about and talk about the mayor and not about the King's commissioner. Of course, all questions and comments also apply to this appointment. However, the nature and tasks of the Commissioner support the expectation that even after the constitutionalisation his way of appointment will not change. Can the initiator therefore explain again why he is taking that initiative? Mr. Chairman. I told you, there's work to be done for the initiators and the minister. On 28 April 2015, the VVD Group decided to consider this amendment to the Constitution. That's quite a step. The reaction of the initiator and the minister today will determine a new final judgment for a large part of my group. We're looking forward to the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u115	Please stand still, Mrs. Huijbregts. Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Huijbregts, you say that in 2015 was decisive for the VVD group to support at first reading what was then proposed because something of a final picture was outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u117	View of a final image.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u118	The Minister's letter of 25 November 2016 then mentioned something about this, including inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u120	But that was important to you. Now you say that it is not clear what the outline of the final picture is. What exactly do you expect? Is that different from what was said by the former Minister in November 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u121	We would like it to be concrete in concrete steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u123	What will happen, when will it happen and what are the preconditions to be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u124	Can you also indicate what these preconditions are for the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u125	I have mentioned the most important conditions. This guarantees the independence of the mayor in any system and that the manner of appointment will be seen in the context, in conjunction with the functioning of local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u126	Then I understand that the current method of appointment, as it is now, is also your preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u127	We do not make any statements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u129	Mrs. Huijbregts has given a beautiful range with an insight into her group. On one, it's basically against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u130	That could have been on three, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u131	Oh, I was just gonna say I'm going for one. My question is this: a number of your group members see that the Minister is doing a good job when she makes a commitment to work on a vision of the future as well as possible. But what guarantee do you have that the Minister will be entitled to before other legislators come up with a different idea, for example? Shouldn't you be sure for the part of your group that actually sits on two, namely by ensuring that it is properly arranged before you say: we are now going to deconstitutionalise and then we are confident that what was promised last time is going to happen now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u132	There are many scenarios possible, but one of the most important ones is this debate here in this Chamber and the views of this Chamber. The views of this Chamber will undoubtedly play a part in, as you called it, "unsuspected actions," referring to the House of Representatives. Initiatives will have to be placed in the context of the views of the First Chamber, because here any legislative change will have to take place further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u133	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u134	I certainly think that if there is a law before us, it will perhaps reach this Chamber as well. But then you really open the door wide to such initiatives. Wouldn't you like to avoid that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u135	If this Chamber agrees on the framework conditions for these initiatives, then, I hope, these initiatives will be examined in the light of the principles that this Chamber will set out today. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u136	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would also like to congratulate the initiator on his hard work this way. Becoming party chairman in the Lower House is a thing, but the real work is of course defending an initiative law in the Upper House. Welcome. It is not the first time in parliamentary history that we are talking about the deconstitutionalisation of the King's Commissioner's method of appointment and the mayor's method of appointment. In fact, from the moment those appointments were incorporated into the Constitution, there has been discussion as to whether this was necessary. I would like to say one more time: Thorbecke, whose name we referred to the 1848 Constitution in question, was not very much in favour of an urgent settlement in the Constitution. Maybe it's nice to add another name to why he wasn't much in favour of it. He did not want to bind the legislator's hands and to continue to give the necessary room for manoeuvre in the design of a system for appointments that had yet to be made. Thorbecke even considered it quite possible that the method of appointment would vary from one municipality to another. In the recent past, this has also been the case for a short period, because between 2002 and 2008 Purple II made experiments with a mayor's referendum possible. Counseling. With varying success. In my own city of Utrecht in 2007, less than 10% of voters took the trouble to express a preference from two middle-aged social-democratic men of the same party. After that it was quickly over with this form of consultative referendum. However, at all times when the appointment of the CdK and the mayor was discussed in the past, the debate focused mainly on the position of the mayor. I can see that again today, and perhaps that makes sense because the mayor's figure is close to the citizen and the mayor in general is also the most well-known and most seen local director in the community. The somewhat aloof constitutional method of appointment since 1848 does not seem to change that. He or she remains a civilian father or citizen mother. The actual appointment of the mayor and the CdK has changed somewhat. From a direct appointment by the Crown, a heavy opinion from the CdK, more or less successful attempts to hold mayoral referenda and the current way in which the nomination of the city council is actually binding. The second reading of this bill is merely a question of whether we should remove the Crown's appointment from the Constitution and, as Thorbecke had already intended, give the legislature the room to determine a suitable method of appointment according to nature, time and place. In 2005, the bill was cut because there was an insufficient majority in this Chamber for the elected mayor, who derived from the same bill. However, now that the current bill does not provide a follow-up step in this direction, the call for a discussion on the role and position of the mayor and the CdK is no less important. Many mayors and Commissioners themselves believe that the absence of a broad, coherent discussion is a reason not to take the Constitution out of the Constitution already. I hear that here in the Chamber, too. And the Public Administration Council also calls for the discussion about the mayor not to start with the method of appointment, but with the role and position of the mayor. Conversely, if my group understands correctly, the initiator thinks that by decoupling the method of appointment from concrete follow-up steps, there is more room for a complete and coherent debate on this issue. Mr. Chairman. Let me say very nuancedly that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance can understand both points of view. In any case, we note that the debate on the role and position of the mayor is on the agenda. In any case, this bill acts as a catalyst. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, in 2005, the linking of deconstitutionalisation to the introduction of a directly elected mayor and CdK was a step too fast and a step too far. And it would be now. A directly elected mayor and CdK radically change the local and provincial playing field. In short: it changes the relationship with the population, with council and states, and it creates a different relationship between CdK and delegates or... Mayors and aldermen. Deputys and aldermen, to focus on it, become more than they are now the performers of an agenda on which the mayor or the CdK has been elected. The consequences of this have still not been considered, let alone worked out. The current bill bypasses this omission. The current method of appointment on the nomination of States or Councils can be maintained and the time for a more fundamental positioning remains. My group would like to make a number of comments on the position of the CdK and the mayor. This does justice to the need expressed by many parties. As I said, the debate on the role and position of the mayor is now, thanks to this initiative proposal. With the Van de Donk Committee, we note that the mayor is seen as independent and authoritative. That's a big good. He is so seen in spite of his, in my words, sometimes hybrid tasks package. The mayor is chairman of the college and chairman of the city council, who gives and controls the same college frameworks: you probably wouldn't think of that on the draft table anymore. But in practice it usually works, partly because municipal councils and provincial states, after a careful procedure, make a nearly binding nomination at the time of the appointment. The mayor and the CdK are by that method of all parties. My group notes, however, that the position of the mayor in particular is subject to a number of tasks with consequences. That's an important part because of you and me as co-legislator. I would like to mention two, which are also relevant for the follow-up. In particular, in the area of public order and security, the number of powers of the mayor has increased considerably and the range of possibilities for administrative enforcement has increased. On several occasions, my group has expressed its more fundamental legal concerns about this, especially because administrative law is much more limited in its procedural safeguards than criminal law. In addition, an unintentional effect is that the mayor himself increasingly enters the window as a recognizable crimefighter. In that role, she or he as a public person is much more visible than a more anonymous judiciary. That makes it vulnerable. Threats to the mayor are increasing, and that is unacceptable in a democratic rule of law. A direct election of the mayor could increase that vulnerability. On the other hand, however, our group does not believe that a paper-based debt instrument still in existence protects the mayor from pressure, threats and undermining. It's gonna take more than that to stop it. We therefore invite the Minister to take a closer look at the balance between administrative measures, instruments and administrative pressure, as opposed to the measures that police, prosecutors and judges can impose. Last Thursday, Mrs Vos' farewell took place here in the room of the First Chamber with a small workshop. In that context, the mayor of Amsterdam formulated it as follows, coincidentally exactly where I am now. "Many administrative instruments are at the top of the legal instruments. We're stacking, instead of choosing." My group is concerned about this accumulation, right on the mayor's side. I would like a reflection on this point from the Minister. We also ask the initiator for his views on what this new task will entail for the future legitimacy of the mayor and what its consequences may be for his or her appointment. A second aspect. Both the mayor and the CdK have a lot to do with social developments in the field of integrity. What we found acceptable ten or fifteen years ago is now questionable. What is integrity is not fixed in concrete, but grows along with changing attitudes in society. That's what this Chamber is experiencing, and the mayor is sure to experience it. The legislator has given her or him responsibility for monitoring the integrity of college and council and their individual members. In this area, the mayor can signal, override and intervene, but here, in this intervention, the instruments of real action are flawed. On this point, too, the question to the Minister to reflect on it. Monitoring integrity requires position and authority and a little help from the legislator. That authority can derive CdK and mayor from their person and a piece of the way they were appointed. An independent crown appointment, an appointment by the entire council or any other way of democratic election will each have to legitimise that authority in their own way. We would also like to hear the views of the initiator, alongside the Minister, on this aspect. Mr. Chairman. Is there any reason to look at the method of appointment of the CdK and the mayors? Yeah, there was, and there is. Democracy does not stand still, the emancipation of citizens continues and more influence on the appointment of officials must keep pace with this. For example, since 1848 the Election Act has been amended many times to reflect democratic developments in society and to step-by-step increase the influence of citizens. The right to vote from 1848 would be unthinkable in the present and future. However, the way in which we appoint mayors and Commissioners has experienced much less development and is formally no different than 170 years ago. Is that reason to rush into something new? No. However, some evidence has emerged for Thorbecke's argument that you need to give the legislator more room for manoeuvre in order to adapt the methods of appointment to the times. A crown designation as currently laid down in the Constitution does not work on this, showing previous attempts. My group calls for a continued and coherent discussion on the role and position of CdK and mayor in local public administration. This includes the mayor's double roles, the tasks of public order, security and integrity, and the CdK's role in monitoring the quality of public administration. What then is the best method of appointment and whether it becomes identical must result from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u138	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u139	Mr. Chairman. Today, spokesmen from 12 political groups talk about a proposal for a law on the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. The proposal has already been dealt with in both chambers, even twice in the Lower House, and was adopted by a large majority. At first reading, in addition to the SGP, a party which was not so long ago opposed to the right to vote for women, the Christian Union was against, but it has now, in the second instance, hidden its objections in the plush seat of the government, as D66 did with the referendum. However, the fact that a large speaking time has been recorded shows how important this issue is, and the same is true of the many interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u140	How does Mr Nagel know exactly where I have put my objections, when he has not yet heard me in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u141	What do you mean by this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u142	I go into what you yourself said about the position of the Christian Union, namely that we have given up our objections...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u143	The Christian Union has...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u144	Mr. Nagel, let Mr. Kuiper speak. May I ask the gentleman who's up there in the public gallery to sit down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u145	My simple question: how do you know where my objections have gone if you haven't heard me yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u146	I took note of the objections raised by the Christian Union at first reading and of the fact that they voted against. I have noticed that you seem to have a different attitude now. The facts are the facts. The question is whether, after the adoption of this bill, much will change in practice or whether, in fact, the situation remains the same. This pressing question was best expressed in this Chamber by the Professor of Public Organisational Law of Utrecht University, Remco Nehmelman, during the discussion with experts on 24 April, who found that there is a shadow debate on this bill. He went on to say: I have followed the discussions in the House of Representatives very closely. That is where you can see that the discussion that everyone might want to talk about in secret should not be held. Where are we going with a different method of appointment? Whether that happens will have to be demonstrated by a new bill. Is that going to happen by the population or by the council or still by crowning? Short and good: the real exciting discussion has yet to follow, says this expert. In this light, the political situation in the Netherlands is alarming and the gap between politics and the regent on the one hand and citizens on the other is greater than ever. The Netherlands is the only country in modern Europe that has no elected mayor. Several surveys have been carried out. Newspaper did that last year among the ruling mayors. Only 10% was for an elected mayor, a two-thirds majority wants to keep the system as it is now. Other surveys, but carried out among the total population, show that for decades there has been a two-thirds majority for an elected mayor. Every time the subject is discussed in Parliament, and again now, there will be a group of mayors who are opposed to the change of law. On the other hand, oranges were civil servants in the Chinese Empire who were highly respected. In order to become a mandarin one had to take a very difficult state exam, though. The objections are still about the same. There must first be a thorough discussion of the content of the mayor's office and there is a fear of elections turning local government over to the delusion of the day. Mr. Chairman. There is a strong opposition among the established parties to more direct democracy and a great distrust of the electorate's judgment. Until a good hundred years ago, there were opponents of women's right to vote and women were despised and not seen as adult citizens. Sometimes it was said openly: they don't have the brains for that. In fact, it is even worse now, because in fact all citizens are despised and not regarded as adult citizens. In fact, the political parties themselves want to hold all power. In the past, the VVD publicly stated that mayoral nominations were necessary in the political remuneration system. In her book Failed Member of Parliament, the former VVD Tweede MP Ybeltje Berckmoes describes how she herself was pushed to become mayor in a small municipality. There are many examples of failed politicians who were promoted or rewarded. The current situation is alarming. The State Committee on Parliamentary System, chaired by Commissioner Remkes, pointed out the loss of function of political parties and called this a weakness in our democracy. In this situation, the former large parties CDA, PvdA and VVD still claim the majority of the functions. Can the Minister give an up-to-date overview of how many mayors these parties currently supply in the 386 municipalities, I believe? 50PLUS is in favour of more direct democracy and has no difficulty in expressing that. Direct democracy, whereby the citizens directly elect the mayor. This does not determine candidates through the no longer representative political parties and effectively excludes the more than 98% of the population who are not members of a political party. 50PLUS wants capable people from the other 98% to be really serious candidates. Of course we support the bill, but at the same time we note that D66 has failed to include something in the government's programme, contrary to the deletion of the referendum. Anyone who knows the relationship of power within the cabinet knows that there is no legislative proposal to this effect from this government. After the vote next week, therefore, we fear, there will not be much change in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u147	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u148	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the initiator, who has made it possible for us today to deal with the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor and the appointment of the King's Commissioner. Mr. Chairman. The SP Group notes that the mayor in the Netherlands is still not elected in a democratic manner. Although the mayor is appointed by the government on the basis of a single recommendation from the city council and thus in practice elected by the city council, the way in which this recommendation is made is certainly not a democratic process. The candidates are secret, only two are submitted to the Council by the Trust Committee, and they choose after a closed debate. Next, the members of the municipal council may not bring out the candidate on which they voted. This also means that they cannot answer to the electorate. The inhabitants of the municipality are thus kept ignorant during the trial and ultimately confronted with a fact, an already made choice, on which the council cannot even justify itself. That is a very different process than the SP wants. We are in favour of a public nomination, a public debate and a choice on which the members of the municipal council are responsible to the electorate. Mr. Chairman. In the opinion of many lawyers and on their opinion of the government, such a democratic election, even if it should be ratified by the government, other than the current appointment procedure, does not tolerate Article 131 of the Constitution, which states that the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner is by royal decision, i.e. by the government. In order to allow a democratic way of electing the mayor, this article must therefore be removed from the Constitution. The Jetten initiative proposal, which was defended here at first reading by the then MP Schouw in 2015 and received the support of the SP Group, replaces the article with a text stating that the method of appointment of the mayor and of the King's commissioner is governed by ordinary law. Following this constitutional change, the parliament can then decide in an ordinary law whether the current method of appointment is replaced by some kind of democratic way of election. My group therefore supports the initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. For us, it is very important that Article 125 (1) of the Constitution, which states that the highest power in the municipality is the city council and in the province of the Provincial State, is not amended. For my group, this means that any election of the mayor, in any form whatsoever, cannot be at the expense of the position of the city council. My group excludes a so-called presidential system in which a directly elected mayor takes over functions and powers of the city council. I ask both the initiator and the Minister whether they agree with us. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on the own-initiative proposal so far, even at first reading in this Chamber, some speakers argued that the position of the mayor is so special that the method of appointment should remain regulated in the Constitution. My group does not consider the arguments for this position to be strong. This is contrary to Article 132 of the Constitution, which states: "The law governs the establishment of provinces and municipalities, as well as the composition and jurisdiction of their administrations." In addition, it is important to note that the mayor, since 1962, I am not going back to 1848. Article 125 (2) of the Constitution also mentions the mayor only as a municipal body. Moreover, the Constitution regulates the appointment of the mayor, but only lays down the functions of the mayor in an ordinary law. This also applies to the so-called independent position of the mayor. So it is not secured by a crown appointment. These are all arguments for not regulating the manner in which the mayor is appointed in the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of questions for the Minister. The government supports the initiative proposal. Does the government also intend, if this proposal also reaches a two-thirds majority in this Chamber, to come forward with a legislative proposal to create an elected mayor? Will such a proposal be preceded by a public debate first? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes it is very important that a proposal for the election of the mayor should be the subject of a broad debate, with, for our part, the question of how best to strengthen local democracy. Mr President, so much for our contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u149	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. After so many years, it is very special to see the author of this proposal again in this Chamber, with all due respect for his commitment. It is a subject that has been under discussion since the Constitution of 1848 and is constantly emerging in so far always failed attempts to change the constitution. Apparently, the de-constitutionalisation of the appointments of mayors and Commissioners is important enough to reflect on each occasion. Sometimes that interest was very clear for proposers when the intention was to find a really different way of choosing the ministers concerned. Sometimes that interest was and is not at all so clear, when it is precisely that which is not discussed at all and is therefore avoided in terms of content, as is now the case. But even if there is a real intention to change the way in which the mayors are appointed, in the first place, something strange is still happening, because it is also noted that virtually every possible adjustment in the appointment procedures is not incompatible with the Crown's appointment laid down in the Constitution. Therefore, purely business-oriented, there must already be a tendency to seek an extreme position for an elected mayor in order to make material sense of this always sought deconstitutionalisation. This could be seen as an argument against the present initiative proposal. A constitutional change must have a meaningful purpose. In contrast to this business approach to what it offers concrete new possibilities, the principle approach is, of course, that the appointment procedures we are talking about are simply appointments, about how politics can take a decision on matters and on the needs of time. This procedure can then be laid down in ordinary, in this case organic legislation. In this way, it simply does not make sense to include these provisions in the Constitution, which is still very difficult to amend. Political decisions are made through legislation and changes are made through legislation. It is of course also possible to adopt an opposite approach of principle, which is precisely a positive choice for the establishment of the fixed point in the appointment procedure in the Constitution. If the starting point is that the position of the mayor as the neutral leader of the municipal institutions above the parties must be guaranteed, and also the position of the King's Commissioner as the leader of the provincial institutions and, moreover, with clear mandates as the ruler of the state, then there is something to be said for the fact that the not easy to change constitutional provision that the Crown appoints is a guarantee. It is then clear that there is the possibility of non-appointment in the case of derailments in all the possibilities for further legislative implementation of the precise course of action. Mr. Chairman. In my constituency, I do not hear any criticism of the current appointment procedures or how they work in practice. My supporters therefore join the 31 mayors and organisations of ministers, mayors, aldermen and council members, and the VNG. The current procedures and their practical implementation have developed within the limits of the constitutional provisions and there is no reason to believe that further development of them could conflict with those limits. Does the proposer agree with that assumption? And if that were the case, does he agree that there is, in material terms, no reason to change the constitution, except on the basis of the basic reasoning I mentioned, that it should simply be the daily policy that must have full and simple majority power over the appointments by means of legislation? If the author agrees with me, then I tend to stick to the not entirely principled approach that I mentioned earlier: if change does not serve an identifiable purpose, why change? Is it not also an end in itself to regulatory stability? If the applicant wishes and can make it clear that the proposed amendment will give new and realistic possibilities, I might have to take a different view. So I would like to wait and see if the author can still convince me of the value of the proposed constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Today, as far as I am concerned, we are dealing with a curious bill, not because it would be so strange in substance, but because I think it is a blow in the air. Of course, I congratulate the author on his efforts, but it is a pity that the author, like his predecessor, Mr Schouw, whom I have already seen in the gallery today, does not want to talk about what deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner should lead. This means that there is a constitutional change with an open end. Meanwhile, in a video, the petitioner says to the citizens of the Netherlands about this deconstitutionalisation: "If this has been done, the Netherlands can then start talking about how we want to elect mayor in the future, for example directly by the inhabitants of the municipality or through the city council." This was a literal quote, which was also repeated this morning on Radio 1. This is a bit weird, because why does he tell the citizens of the Netherlands what he wants but not the parliament? And how are the members of the First Chamber supposed to indicate that message by video? I'd like a response from the petitioner. This is not just about a bill that can be repaired again, if necessary with an emergency law, when we have come to our senses again. No, it's about rumblings in the Constitution, without a solid proposal for the future attached to it. Of course, the necessary questions have been asked about this, but the author comes up with the argument that "it is better to have a debate on the method of appointment after the destitutionalisation has been achieved."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u153	I would like to refer to the word 'dirty' used by Mr Schalk. We are having a debate here today on the Constitution and on an amendment to the Constitution, more specifically on a de-constitutionalisation. We can find what we want in terms of content. I think I already know a little about what you think, but can you explain to me what's messy when there's a bill before you that was accepted by the House of Representatives in second reading? What's messy about that, except for the fact that you disagree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u154	Sure. I didn't use the word messy. I used the word messy. Because I respect the Constitution, I find it messed up in the Constitution when you do something in the Constitution without knowing where that leads. I would have agreed with you that I should not have used "dirty" but "dirty" in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u155	Excuse me, Mr Schalk is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u157	But then my question remains when there is 'curdling' and when we are not, when we are talking about constitutionalisation. a destitutionalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u158	At least today's debate is about deconstitutionalisation. I have already made it clear, in the event of interruption, that I do not think it is appropriate or appropriate for us to amend the Constitution without a fundamental plan. That is what I find very difficult about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u159	What is the nature of that objection? Is that a constitutional objection or is that a party political objection? For in the past, it has happened more often that determinations have been de-institutionalized, even in a way that no alternative has been put forward. The whole of the 1983 constitutional review, the general constitutional revision, already had a characteristic of deconstitutionalisation and, moreover, of constitutionalisation, for example, with regard to a whole catalogue of fundamental social rights. What is the nature of your objection to this, which is why you call this "cluttering"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u160	No, I don't call it messing around. Yeah, I call it "clutter." So let's keep using the right word. You can look at this from both a constitutional or a constitutional point of view and from a political point of view. Either way, on both fronts, I'd say you shouldn't change anything if that's not based on a good plan for the future. After I interrupted you, Mrs. Lokin came to me. She said that sometime something was taken out of the Constitution. That was in 1887 and that was about a Kieswetsarticle; you know that as a state law scholar, no doubt. According to what I've just heard, I haven't looked it back yet. So now there is something in front of us without knowing what we want to replace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u161	Finally, Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u162	I note that Mr Schalk is not in a position to mention a state-law argument as to why there is a 'dummy'...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u163	Rubbish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u164	It's messed up; I'm obviously very persistent. Mr Schalk is not in a position to mention a state-law argument as to why there would be "cluttering." This obviously has to do with a party-political preference on the nature of the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u165	That is an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u166	I note that Mr Schalk has so far made the most important argument against this proposal that it is 'cluttered', because it is not clear what lies behind it as a proposal for the appointment of the mayor. In 2005, Minister De Graaf, on behalf of the then government, also had a proposal for deconstitutionalisation. There was a very concrete proposal behind it, which replaced it. That was obviously not a mess in your view, but you, at least your group, were also fatally opposed to it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u167	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u168	Can you imagine, then, that I suspect that your objections are not so much directed against the procedure or against the way things are going, but that you simply object to the possibility that, in future, a single majority could be taken to an elected mayor and that I therefore suspect that that is your real objection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u169	Could it also be that you have different arguments against a legislative proposal, for example that I do not think party politics is a good idea, but that I also think that we should not mess with the Constitution? That is the case; I am still saying 'dumbling' and not 'dummy', because what Mr Jetten and Mr Schouw have done is not messy, but I find this mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u170	I can follow that reasoning. It was just not the beginning of an answer to my question. My question was as follows. The SGP also objected in principle to another procedure, which included a proposal for a different method of appointment. Is it not true, then, that this is really about the underlying proposal and that you, as the SGP Group, simply do not want to see a different way in which the mayor can be appointed by a single majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u171	Then let me try again to explain. I have just started my text, but I started by saying that I do not think it is a good idea to amend the Constitution before we know what we really want in the future. That's one. Then there is the question of what you might think of a possible proposal. In 2005, my group voted against this proposal. This may be unrelated to the initial consideration that I have been able to put forward so far. On the substance of the matter, the objection is also correct that I do not know where they are going. We have asked that once and again. That has been asked for by Mr Schouw, and that has been asked for by Mr Jetten. In the Acts of the House of Representatives you can see that this has been asked in all keys. We have tried this here in the First Chamber in the written rounds, but we do not get an answer to the question of what it should be like in the future. So I'm having a hard time acting on that, too. It is clear, however, that I do not agree with the fact that the Constitution is simply being violated, and that I also think it is important that the independence and position of the mayor is very well anchored in what is currently contained in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u172	I think you should do it with that, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u173	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u174	A little supplemental. Mr Schalk gives the impression that we would fall into a hole after this, as if nothing had been regulated by law. But isn't there simply legislation that regulates that even after the constitutionalisation there is a procedure for the appointment of mayors and Commissioners of the King? Surely there is so much legislation that is laid down in ordinary laws that we do not say: let us stop all presses until we know what we want with everything in the future? I'm tasting a little cold feet that might not be necessary as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u175	I think Mr. Lintmeijer is going to get the hang of it by asking if that's so bad that it's gonna be out in a minute, because there's still a mention of how that appointment will take place. That's right. I really do not have the impression that if we vote on this next week and if that bill were to be adopted, we would immediately fall into a hole, but on the other hand we have no idea where we want to go. That's the objection I've been trying to make clear so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u176	There is ordinary legislation and it will be there if we adopt this bill next week. What then is wrong if we allow ordinary legislation, with a simple majority, to exist as it is, or adapt it because a democratic majority is in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u177	In the course of my speech, I will certainly come back to that, but that has to do with, among other things, an earlier discussion that we had this afternoon in this Chamber. We are considering whether you should first get something out of the Constitution and then start a discussion about the vision of the future or first have a vision of the future and then the Constitution. My idea would be that the latter is an orderly way of dealing with it: first, to know where we want to go and then to do something about the Constitution. In the meantime, I fully agree with Mr Lintmeijer that we are not falling into a hole and that there is still legislation. But Mr Lintmeijer will also agree with me, although I do not want to challenge him, that if the constitutionalisation is a fact, there are in principle 150 people in the House of Representatives who can come up with an initiative law that does not form the basis for any vision of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u178	Finally, Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u179	Yeah, I'm a little challenged anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u180	Only one interruption, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u181	In one sentence, it's called democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u182	Right. And with that democracy, you are also trying to guard that the Constitution is not just being violated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u183	Mr Van Hattem, do you have a different type of question than was asked by Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u184	Yes, it is a different type of question, but it continues on the rumblings in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u185	That is a subject that has been widely discussed. You have to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u186	I will be brief, but it is a rather fundamental question to the SGP, which states very fundamentally that it does not really want to undermine the Constitution or mess around. In 1848, when this article was introduced, Thorbecke laid down a trial of a Constitution, a consistently thought-out whole, and then King Willem II decided to insert this article. Does the SGP also see this as rumbling in the Constitution, by messing with such an article in a well-thought-out trial of a Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u187	I would not accuse King Willem II of messing around, I would certainly not dare, but what finally happened in 1848 is that that Constitution was accepted. I think we can agree on that. And now we have the question of whether we want to amend the Constitution. That question is before us; not if I agreed with King Willem II or Thorbecke, 170 years ago, and all those points of discussion that the President wants to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u188	I have to ask a follow-up question, because it has just been said that there was a further deconstitutionalisation in 1887. From my point of view, this was the withdrawal of the right to census. Does the SGP think that this is also a form of messing with the Constitution? Shouldn't that have happened, too? I hear Mr Schalk saying that we must come up with a vision for the future, but who are "we"? Should we as First Chamber come forward with a vision for the future? Should the SGP come up with a vision for the future? As far as I am concerned, the vision of the future is very clear. As a PVV guy, I say we go to an elected mayor. Who's "we" to come up with a vision of the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u189	That was two questions. Let me start with the last one, because I almost lost the first one. "We," that could even be the PVV, I understand now. What I'm trying to say here is that I think it's best that there's a well-behaved, weighted vision of the future. If it is put forward by the government, that will be the subject of a debate in this Chamber. And then you can decide whether it should remain in the Constitution or not. Should this method of appointment be regulated in a different way in the law? That is only at that point in time, but not the other way around. I remember what your other question was. Did I find 1887 rumblings in the Constitution? I have just said about that year, which was put forward for a moment, that I am not a legal expert, in the sense that I know exactly what happened then. But also the 1887 bill is not now before us, but the draft law on deconstitutionalisation at the moment. I have just said that the petitioner comes up with the argument that it is better to have the debate on the method of appointment after the destitutionalisation has been achieved, and I have a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u190	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u191	Yes, then we have to say that we should not regard the Constitution as absolute either, and that if a sensible adjustment is necessary, we can certainly do so, without having to be messed up right away. It seems to me that there is now a very useful proposal to move forward. I don't think that's much of a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u192	I can't figure out what happens next. I don't know if that's a mess yet. I have said that I think the rumblings in the Constitution are going to change them before there is a debate on the method of appointment and a vision for the future. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is this argument that it is better to have a debate on the method of appointment after the destitutionalisation has been achieved also valid for the government? Does the government also think it would be better to have the debate on the way in which the mayor and the King's commissioner are appointed only after the destitutionalisation has taken place? If so, what are the standards for administrative action? How does that fit into the Code of Good Public Administration? Are there any examples in administrative practice that justify such a practice? Does the government agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that there should be a supporting argument before the Constitution, on whatever part, should be changed? That can't be a blow in the air, can it? Madam President. My group is deeply concerned about the position of the mayor in particular, not when everything is going well, not when the mayor is dealing with all kinds of representative tasks, but when it comes to the matter. I've checked with a number of mayors and one after the other states to attach to his independent position. Let me start with the next point. Occasionally, a mayor gets blamed for political action. This reproach can only become stronger as independence is less well secured. But there are far more important arguments than just that political caliber of mayors. We want mayors who, in particular in the event of crisis or undermining, stand their ground, without burden or back-spoke, without regard for the individual, without thinking about voters and voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u193	Also to Mr Schalk the question: why does he believe that the independence of the mayor is guaranteed in the Constitution, Article 131?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u194	Independence is not guaranteed in the Constitution. But the crown nomination gives the most independent position to the mayor. I am very curious to know if there are any other forms of appointment that guarantee a higher degree of independence for a mayor. Because with every other form that has been mentioned so far, chosen by the council or by citizens, you always get a different sphere of influence than with a crown designation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u195	What does Mr Schalk think about the fact that under the current Constitution, when you are appointed mayor, you are dependent on two institutions, namely the majority of the city council and the Crown, or the government? Why would that, if you're even dependent on two institutions, most stress your independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u196	I would like to reverse the question; I was just trying to. What form is more independent than the crown designation? I agree with you that as soon as there is a mayor's place somewhere, a good trust committee must be set up. That is also a growing practice, and I have no objection to it. There must be good guarantees that it all happens neatly and the like. Of course, there are all kinds of possibilities for political influence, but the practice shows that very often people look at a number of qualities that someone brings in. The examples of this have already been mentioned by other speakers this afternoon. They come with a presentation to the king's commissioner. As far as we know, most of this is met. I hear from the audience that this always happens, but I don't know, because if it's okay, it's all classified. We think it never happens, but we don't know that for sure. Otherwise, that would be a big mistake on the part of the trust committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u197	Finally, briefly on this point, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u198	Yes, finally as far as I'm concerned, Mr President. What does Mr Schalk think of the reasoning that if the independence of the mayor relates to the independent position, which is governed by Article 125 (2) of the Constitution, and that if independence is defined according to its own tasks and powers, which is guaranteed by ordinary Community law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u199	Yeah, that's how it's done in our legislation. I do not have a final opinion on this at the moment. I wasn't asked to. I now have to respond to a proposal for deconstitutionalisation, without saying anything about those other articles or without saying that we need to change that. We don't know. The author has closed it neatly and only says that we are not going to do that debate until the destitutionalisation is a fact. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u200	Mr. Van Hattem, do you have any other point besides the point that has just been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u201	Sure. Mr Schalk of the SGP referred to the position of the mayor in major crises, in the event of major disasters. One of the biggest disasters our Western history has experienced in recent decades was the Islamic attack on the Twin Towers in New York in 2001. One of the most impressive performances of mayors I can remember is that of Mayor Giuliani, who, as elected mayor, could get everyone behind him, get the whole city, the whole society, fire department and police, and really fight that disaster. In Mr Schalk's view, had he been better placed than he was then? Why couldn't he do that as an elected mayor? Why does it have to be in an appointed position? Apparently, an elected mayor can't do that in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u202	The last thing I couldn't say, of course. I hope that a mayor, in whatever way he has been appointed, at the time of a disaster, will speak of connection, of seeking justice, in the position he must take at that time. I remember the case of the Twin Towers, of course. A terrible attack. I was indeed very impressed by what the mayor did at the time. But also from what the president did. He stood in front of the microphone and quoted Psalm 23: "Though I also went through a valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil." I think that was very binding. That's what a mayor can do. I do not have just as many examples of major disasters in our own society. But let's think about the fireworks disaster. I remember how important it was what the mayor did back then. Or the attack at the time, then, Queen's Day. Mr De Graaf, later President of this Chamber, then linked society in a wonderful way and he raised the issue of how we should deal with it. I am not saying at any time, in whatever way a mayor has been elected, that he could not play a wonderful role. But what matters to me about this bill is that we're doing something without knowing where we're going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u203	One more follow-up question on this point, because I think we are very far from the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u204	But it was beautiful, Psalm 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u205	Yeah, it's nice, but we're gonna be very different. One short question and then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u206	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a little bit more sharp, because with Mr Schalk's fine words he is a little ignorant of the essence of my question. Why would an appointed mayor do better in such a situation than an elected mayor? Because he expressly prefers a mayor appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u207	I didn't argue that an appointed mayor would do better. I have indicated that it is important for a mayor to act properly when something serious is going on. That has nothing to do with the way he was appointed. I agree with Mr Van Hattem. In the meantime, I was in the process of pointing out that we believe that the mayor should be able to function without burden and backspoke, without regard for the individual and without thinking about voters and voters. We want a mayor to be above the parties and not dependent on parties. His position must be such that there is no misunderstanding about his course of action. Does the government agree with this view? How does the petitioner view the maintenance of the mayor's independence, particularly in the light of the intention to de-constitutionalise the method of appointment? There is also the position of the mayor within the triangle. Together with the police and the Justice Department, the mayor is in charge of complex situations surrounding security interests. It is precisely from his objective and independent position that he or she can use this confidence position. An example: a mayor had to do with a president of a political party who was in hemp, not literally but figuratively. A councilman was his errand boy. Then a mayor shouldn't have the city council as his formal boss. Or a very different current example: we have recently had debates here on the reclassifications. It was striking that the mayors did not stir in these violent debates. They were the beacons of rest because they did not have to run a program, but led processes as independent directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u208	Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u209	Yes, Mr. Chairman, with an apology. I do feel you want to go through, but I hear things here sometimes that become too bartender to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u210	Too bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u211	So long as you keep it concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u212	You are drawing attention, quite rightly, to the question of the independence and impartiality of the mayor. No bias; he must be able to play that role, including in the context of public policy. You will then again invoke the guarantee of crown appointment, which would strengthen this independence. And that there should be no lines to voters, interests and otherwise. But the reality is that it has passed here a number of times that crown appointment is a pure formality and that factually or materially the reality is that the mayor is chosen and recommended by the city council. There is no example of the Minister not following that recommendation. This makes the position of the mayor vulnerable in that he has a relationship with the city council, because it is also very easy for the city council to resign a mayor by recommendation because of a distorted relationship. I am afraid that I cannot understand why the crown designation in the Constitution, which has become completely empty, would be so important for the current position of the mayor, precisely in the light of that independence in the context of public order and security. That's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u213	I still do not think we can know everything about what confidence committees might have shared with a Commissioner of the King. I just can't look in there. Maybe the Minister will be able to shed her light on that in a moment? Maybe she can tell us if nominations of trust committees have been followed in all cases, so always? I don't know. I'm not supposed to know. So I'm wondering if that's really true. That's actually kind of the line of my thinking in that regard. Mr Engels has asked another question. Maybe he'll be upstairs in a minute. Oh, yes, that is actually the same question as Mr Köhler asked me. I put a counter question to that: could he think of any other way of making appointments that would at least strengthen independence in relation to what it is now, namely crown appointment? Madam President. I would like to return to the discussion which has so far been avoided by the author, namely the one on the follow-up to the constitutionalisation, for example with regard to other methods of appointment and their consequences. A question to the author and to the government is the same one that I have just asked Mr Köhler and Mr Engels: is there any way to come up with a form in which the position of the mayor and of the Commissioner would become more independent than in the current way of appointment? The initiator is almost calmly suggesting that this is only about constitutional anchoring, and that any future changes cannot be anticipated now that a substantive change is not envisaged. I have already indicated that this is an unsustainable argument. Moreover, it is striking that Mr Jetten's predecessor, Mr Schouw, used exactly the same strategy at first reading. Remarkably, the political leader of D66 in the Lower House at that first reading was quite explicit. I quote: 'The author does not wish to speak on a future perspective. That's understandable. I'll do it, though. The D66 Group sees the deconstitutionalisation as a first step towards the directly elected mayor and the directly elected commissioner of the king." End of quote by Mr Pechtold. Can the petitioner indicate whether this is still the line of the D66 Group and the party leader? Anyway, the most powerful and the highest possible appointment is a crown appointment. Or does the petitioner or the government see a method of appointment that goes beyond that? If not, this means that a different type of appointment is linked to one of the local authorities. Decision-making will therefore always have to take place at that level. As a result, the acceptance of these functions is no longer determined by the Crown, but by the delusion of the day, either by the political majority or by the coalition at that time. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that this is an undesirable scenario. Hence a final question, both to the petitioner and to the government: is it not wise to keep the bill until a sound vision of the future is on the table? Madam President. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u214	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u215	Madam President. In an early year's book entitled How democratics which, the writers painfully show that our Western democracies are a vulnerable property that needs to be handled with caution. Levitsky and Ziblatt, the writers, warn in their study of a gradual erosion of democracies in Europe and Latin America, not along the abrupt path of revolution or military coup, but through a subtle and gradual process of erosion. I hear you think: we are talking here today about our domestic administration and not about foreign authoritarian leaders such as Trump, Putin, Erdogan and Orban, who cannot resist the temptation to maximize their temporary power in favour of long-term party advantage? That is true, but the alarm clock that was ringing Levitsky and Ziblatt resonated so strongly in my head that I had to think about it regularly when preparing my contribution on behalf of the CDA group for this debate. For, Madam President, what applies to nation states also applies mutatis mutandis to local democracies. The local government in our country has suffered a lot in recent years. Think of the attack on the town hall of Waalre, the threat to the mayor of Haarlem, the attempts by the underworld to influence the upper world, the terror that directors must be allowed to accept through social media, integrity issues. Add to this that the administration of municipalities and provinces is increasingly confronted with fake news, corruption, undermining, threat, populism and fragmentation, and it is clear that a gradual erosion of local government is lurking. And then we should not only think of the 'hardware' of the administration, but perhaps even more of its'soft guardrails', of unwritten democratic standards such as tolerance and restraint that elected directors should impose on themselves in the performance of posts. Madam President. Is there a reason for alarm? Is our local democracy in danger? Maybe not yet, but alertness is definitely required. Vigilance has been demanded, from those local leaders but also from us as legislative power. Since the middle of the nineteenth century, we have had a structure of our domestic administration built on robust standards and a sustainable system of checks-and-balances that we need to be careful about. It is a system that must nurture its gatekeepers, independent justice, free press, inspections. As the First Chamber, we have an expensive duty to resist the delusion of the day, to show the courage sometimes to say 'no' where the call for change sounds loud. This is all the more true in matters laid down in our constitution. In that case, two Chambers in two readings, and then again with a reinforced majority, must give their assent to a proposal. In plain Dutch: don't throw away old shoes before you have new ones. Surely a change is also an improvement. The First Chamber in the role of gatekeeper. Let's think very carefully before you take part in the waves of renewal. Madam President. Against this background, my group deeply regretted that the initiator, during the written preparation for this debate, did not address the question of our and other political groups: what after the democratization? We have been disappointed by the fact that the initiator did not wish to provide the slightest insight into the direction in which he thinks about the future of the mayor and the King's Commissioner. A people-elected mayor? Or a council-elected first-time citizen? Or the Belgian variant, in which the city council nominates the winner of the council elections most of the time after the formation of a college of mayors and ships with the King for appointment? Why, my first question to the initiator, has he deliberately avoided this discussion? Does he not agree that the current mayor represents important values, which should be preserved in any new system to be chosen? I refer to values such as there are his relatively independent position vis-à-vis the city council, the binding role he can play as mayor of all citizens, his specific responsibility for public order and security in the municipality and his guardianship over the integrity of the administration. These questions must be answered in a sound manner before the CDA Group can agree to the constitutionalisation of the King's methods of appointment of mayors and Commissioners. It is well known that it voted against at first reading. These answers will have to come from both the initiator and the Minister for the Interior, who has a special responsibility for the proper functioning of our decentralised system. It is not for nothing called "our minister" in municipal and provincial circles. After this, I will address a number of aspects of mayorship in particular, the consequences of which should be carefully considered after constitutionalisation. In my group's view, any revision of the King's method of appointment of Commissioners calls for extra caution because of his national duties. In my group's view, the election of this official does not seem to be an urgent matter at all. How do initiator and minister see this? Mayor and Commissioner have a special position in our state system. These appointed officers have been assigned specific tasks and powers governed by law. Changes in the way in which these officials are appointed cannot therefore be viewed solitaryly, but should be considered in a broader perspective, namely the perspective of the administrative relations within the local or provincial administration as well as in the whole of administrative relations between the different levels of government: the Empire, provinces and municipalities. The mayor was presented in the middle of the nineteenth century as "the man of the city, but also the hand of the government." This official appointed by the Crown was and is still entrusted with important tasks and powers in the field of public order, in order to promote administrative integrity in the municipality. And we almost forgot, but the mayor can still propose the decision of the city council and the college for destruction to the Crown if these are not in accordance with higher regulations. As far as the position of the King's Commissioner is concerned, this is still a fortiori, because since the government can instruct him to serve, he can be regarded as a state official.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u216	I have a question for Mr Rombouts of the CDA. He mentions all kinds of powers that the mayor would have because of the appointed position. As I pointed out in my speech, mayors are often replaced by a deputy mayor for a long time, for example in the case of illness. It has not been appointed by the Crown and has no constitutional basis, but at that time it can exercise all those powers fully. Isn't that just a big hole? Can't it actually work? At the moment, that is what is happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u217	It can work very well. We have seen this in many congregations, including yours and mine. I think we're talking about an important matter here. It is not just about the way in which mayor and Commissioner are appointed, it is about the quality, the organisation and the power of the decentralised nature of our municipalities and provinces. Then having those powers is an essential element. I'll come back to that later. For our group, this is so important that we want to have a debate on this with the government, but also with the initiator and the political groups, in order to find out how we can preserve it as much as possible for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u218	But could it not be that these powers can be exercised even more effectively if the mayor is elected, which is why he has broad support in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u219	I understand that you would like to point out that in your case, in any case, a mayor elected by the directly elected mayor, I assume, can count on more electoral mandate. But we have seen in the last 170 years that something we have devised here in the middle of the nineteenth century in the Binnenhof works very well, also in comparison with other countries. Where in the world is the decentralised government as strong as here, because with tasks and powers surrounded and with a great deal of responsibility and a great deal of autonomy? Isn't that partly due to the confidence that The Hague had in its local and provincial authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u220	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u221	Still, why should confidence be greater in an appointed officer than in an elected minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u222	It's an assessment. You're already walking away from the microphone. I hope that's not a sign that you don't have that much faith in it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u223	It's a sign that the President probably won't let me react anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u224	My point is that we have to ask ourselves whether the Hague government is still prepared to leave powers to local authorities if there is to be a elected or directly elected mayor. I'm going to put that question to the initiator and the government as well. Shall I get back to the King's commissioner? I do not have much of a text on this, Madam President. I said earlier that, in the opinion of our group, there is no urgent need to change this in order to choose it. Because he's also a state official. In addition, he independently supervises the municipal authorities. This supervisory role can also be extended through sectoral legislation. Will the Minister and the initiator indicate how they see this particular state-of-the-art position of both the mayor and the Commissioner in the event of these officials being elected? The second point I would like to make is that we must consider very carefully that having appointed mayors and Commissioners in the last century and a half has undoubtedly contributed to the decentralised nature of our state system. I mentioned it for a while in the interrupting debate. That is not illogical, because municipalities and provinces were there much earlier, long before the Empire arose. Hence also the autonomous powers of municipalities and provinces, although they are not explicitly mentioned in Constitution or law. Many tasks and powers have over the years been entrusted to municipalities and provinces, recently three major decentralisations in the social domain. The question is whether this will happen to municipalities and provinces with an elected minister in the future to the same extent or whether the central reins will be recited by The Hague. The Netherlands can rightly call itself a decentralised unitary state. Municipalities have relatively many tasks and powers in our country compared to other countries in Europe and beyond. Assuming that the initiator and the minister, like my group, consider it important to maintain this strong position of municipalities and provinces for the future, I am looking forward to their views on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u225	Mrs Van Leeuwen, you haven't made your maiden speech yet! Okay, go ahead. You need to press the button. See, that's the problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u226	That's where I'm going all the mist, yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear your contribution and ask myself: did you, at the time you were mayor in Den Bosch, have the letter that was sent to us also signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u227	How wonderful to be able to answer this virgin question! I could have just done that, yeah. I'm honest with you about that. But today I have another responsibility. I stand here as a senator on behalf of a group of twelve to discuss the constitutional aspects of the initiative proposal with you, the government and the initiator. In the end, when you vote, you will see where we stand. But first I want to know from the initiator, at least that is my interpretation of this first term, whether he has properly considered everything that is attached to it. Has he thought about the question of what then next and what then certainly not? The Minister of the Interior has a very special responsibility for the decentralised administration, not only for its functioning in the future, but also now, and for the transition to the future system. I would therefore very much like to ask her about the things that are so incredibly valuable in our decentralised order. You may notice from my long answer and from my body language that I can understand the letter from those mayors very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u228	That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u229	I would have stayed in the social domain, but I would now like to move on to another aspect of our decentralised system. We have not only a decentralised system in the Netherlands, but also a very stable one. The appointed mayor and commissioner have contributed significantly to the continuity and stability of the administration in municipalities and provinces. This is partly due to the relatively independent position of the appointed mayor and the king's commissioner. They are not only appointed for six years rather than for four years, such as the municipal councils, but often also play a binding role, which is generally highly appreciated by citizens and municipal councils. They also play an equally appreciated role as gatekeeper in the event of integrity violations and, in recent years, the undermining of the board. Changing their methods of appointment will inevitably affect the position of the mayor and the Commissioner when these officials will be elected in the future. I'd like to hear a response from the initiator and the ruler. A fourth aspect is this. The change in the mayor's terms of office will also affect the mayor's relationship with the city council. Fortunately, even after the adoption of this initiative proposal, the head of the council is and will remain the principle that the city council is the head of the municipality enshrined in the Constitution. A directly elected mayor nevertheless runs counter to that head of the council. This can result in very unpleasant and unproductive cohabitations. That's what we see when we're abroad. My group would like to hear the opinion of the initiator and the Minister. Changes in the manner of appointment may further affect the mayor's relationship with the aldermen and the manner in which the aldermen are appointed. Can an elected mayor put his own team together and then "his or her" fire aldermen? The appointed mayor has a relatively independent position. Of course, it must also be accountable to the city council, but he or she has specific tasks derived from the law in the field of public order and security and in the area of promoting integrity. Will this important package of tasks also remain in the hands of an elected minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u230	Can I ask Mr Rombouts what the CDA Group thinks about that? Does it think it is compatible with Article 125 (1) of the Constitution if there is a mayor who is about to appoint the aldermen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u231	I would like to postpone it until the second time to comment on what my group is thinking. The initiator comes up with a proposal to change something. We want to have in the first place asked all the questions that we live with about what the consequences of this radical constitutional change could be. If you don't blame me, I was gonna save this for round two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u232	Mr. Schalk wants to ask another question. Not about this point, because that comes in the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u233	Sure, but a clarification on that. Is Mr Rombouts referring, for example, to the fact that, if a mayor were elected, it would always involve a political programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u234	Have you ever heard the CDA Group talk about this type of election? We didn't dream much about that. It doesn't make much sense to ask me too many questions about that either. I think it's other parties you should be asking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u235	That's right, I agreed with the fact that you're asking questions to the government. While I was listening to you, this question occurred to me. So through you, I'll take it to the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u236	Very nice. Madam President. I've got a little bit left to go. The appointed mayor is generally perceived as the mayor of all citizens. How do initiator and minister see this in the case of a mayor elected by the majority of the population or by a majority of the city council? Sometimes the mayor is not even elected by the majority of the population, as is the case in Belgium: there you can also become mayor with 20% of the votes, even by the Crown. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a consistent manner of appointment of officials of major importance to our state system, such as the mayor and the Commissioner. Not much has actually been said about this today, perhaps not. Surely it cannot be the intention, I would ask the initiator and the minister, that after the constitutionalisation their way of appointment be played by temporary and varying political majorities in the two Chambers of the States General and that that system of appointment can be changed by a simple majority every four years? I'd like to hear their opinion on this. Madam President. The CDA Group looks forward with interest and curiosity to the reactions of the initiator and the Minister. However, at the end of my first term, I do not wish to conceal the fact that what I have mentioned here in terms of aspects and effects is of such great importance to our group for the functioning of a mayor and for the overall local administration, which I am very much considering, and that is perhaps even weakly expressed in order to table a motion on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u237	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I'm going to press the bell so everyone knows there's going to be a maiden speech. Mrs. Van Leeuwen, I'd like to invite you to sit behind the speaker chair. Mrs. Van Leeuwen is making her maiden speech, as we all know. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u238	Thank you, Mr President. The 44 people who founded D66 on 24 October 1966 in the basement of advertising agency FHV put the emphasis on democratisation of society and on a new party system. Important part was the deconstitutionalisation of the crown names of mayors and Commissioners of the King. Almost 21 years before Rob Jetten was born, we were already working on the crown jewel that we are discussing here today. It is good to see that political renewal ideas do not have to be extinct in a next generation, but it is significant that apparently it takes such a long time to achieve them. The caution and slowness with which this should be done is also significant. After 52 years we treat a piece of the D66 cake today, without D66 showing us what the whole cake looks like. The cake the preparation of which has been going on for 52 years. A bit of an old cake, you might say. And no, it's far from finished. Mr. Chairman. Old Senator Thom de Graaf of D66 left as minister thirteen years ago, after Van Thijn's famous night. Without an elected mayor, De Graaf wouldn't see it happen again. Despite his great desire for deconstitutionalisation, he was appointed unelected mayor of Nijmegen a few years later. In the meantime, he was also appointed unelected Vice-President of the Netherlands, as Vice-President of the Council of State. An appointment with a clear party political profile. The biggest problem that citizens experience in their congregation is not that they cannot choose their mayor. Ask the citizens and they call insecurity on the streets, inaccessibility of the city centre due to a city infarct, garbage on the streets, too little greenery, bad street lighting. These are issues that concern citizens. Anyone who puts his head in a mayor's necklace must above all be there for the citizens and above the parties. There are major objections to the mayor or commissioner of the King or Vice-President of the Council of State appointed by the Crown, but in order for them to be elected directly does not seem to be a full plan, even according to the proposer. Nevertheless, it is strange that almost all mayors are members of a political party, whereas only 2.5% of all citizens are members. It is difficult to imagine that among the remaining 97.5% of adults there would be no people who could be an excellent mayor. Mr Nagel also mentioned this. Right now, most mayors are against the elected mayor. We have received a compelling letter from the Dutch Society of Mayors, which is supported by the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Wethoudersvereniging and the Dutch Association for Council Members. They express their wish not to regulate the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's appointment now, until it is clear which new appointment procedure would replace it. D66 mayor Onno van Veldhuizen van Enschede is also one of the 31 mayors who signed the letter. He said yesterday in the Tubantia region newspaper: "In the past, the mayor was appointed from above. A city only had to deal with it. Those days have been real. Now anyone can apply. The King's Commissioner talks to the candidates and makes a selection, with which a trust committee from the city council speaks in detail. From this comes a nomination of the best candidates on which the full board decides." He thinks the current system works well and says: "if it's not broken, don't fix it." He wondered what kind of problem this was for. Former Commissioner of the King Jan Terlouw of D66 also shares this view. Mr. Chairman. A common argument is that the current procedure provides for a mayor who can stand above the parties. Of course, there is a lot to argue with as long as every mayor wears a party label. At present, there is only one mayor in the Netherlands who does not come from a political party, whereas mayors should be above those parties. Whether a mayor's election will change that is, however, very much the question. The suggestion behind mayoral elections is that it would be more democratic. If mayors were to be elected directly from now on, they would acquire their own democratic legitimacy. But if an insoluble conflict arises between the mayor and the city council, the mayor will be able to ignore the city council. An elected mayor can actually run for a full term, almost unhindered by the city council. After all, they both have a mandate from the electorate. So an elected mayor is only going to be more powerful. What's in it for civilians? Can the Minister and the petitioner reflect on that? Mr. Chairman. If we really want to give citizens more influence, it does not seem wise for our group to start mayoral elections. I would like to hear from the author how he looks at this objection and how he thinks he can convince us that despite this objection, the amendment of the Constitution is the first step to be justified and whether he would not rather wait for an integral opinion from the Remkes Committee, which is on its way. Mr. Chairman. When we look at the historical and current Commissioners of the King and the mayors, we see that they are not representative of the choices of the Dutch electorate. Let me give you an overview of the current distribution of our twelve King Commissioner. Friesland: VVD; Gelderland: VVD; Utrecht: VVD; Noord-Holland: VVD; Groningen: CDA; Limburg: CDA; Noord-Brabant: CDA; Zuid-Holland: CDA; Drenthe: PvdA; Flevoland: PvdA; Zeeland: D66; Overijssel: ChristenUnion. Of these twelve Commissioners of the King, there is only one woman, in Drenthe, of the PvdA. Apart from the two PvdA Commissioners, it is also remarkable that the rest of the King's Commissioners only belong to the coalition parties. It still resembles an impenetrable old boys network. It would be a good thing to set a good example to D66 first of all as proof of good will for the Constitution on this point without any prospect of improvement. We are eagerly looking forward to the appointment of the new Commissioner of the King in Gelderland. Is it going to be another party political nomination? Does the petitioner consider it possible that Gelderland will receive a D66 commissioner from the King? Or is it finally looking beyond political background? I would like to hear Mr Jetten's assessment in relation to the proposal before us. What can the proposal change as far as he is concerned to the job carousel that nobody really wants, but everyone seems to accept? Mr. Chairman. Let me then give an overview of the current mayors. Don't worry, I won't do this by city, I'll paint a complete picture. Currently, 84% of the mayors come from the CDA, the VVD and the PvdA. 84%, while these three parties in the Lower House together account for less than 41%. This is not proportionate to election results and is therefore not representative of citizens' choices. Only 21% of the mayors are women. That's gotta be different. Mr. Chairman. I know that the Jetten Initiative Act we are discussing today is not about the elected mayor. He serves only to remove the appointment from the Constitution by royal decree of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor. So this is a beginning of abolishing the old system. What follows, no one knows. But can you remove a traffic light before the new priority rules are clear? The current rules of priority lead to too much confusion in the area of democratic legitimacy with the current traffic lights. As far as our group is concerned, the method of appointment does not need to be laid down in the Constitution. This can also be regulated by ordinary law, but the question is what new system we will get back and why, according to Mr Jetten, we should especially throw away our old shoes before we have new ones. Mr. Chairman. If the current proposal for amendment of the Constitution is adopted at this second reading, will the current appointment procedure remain in force for the time being? Is there going to be a new bill soon? Does Mr Jetten have plans for this and at what time? Mr Jetten has a fairly short line with the government, so if there are plans, that information could also help with this proposal. Is it intended to work towards a citizen-elected mayor? Should the Election Act be amended for this purpose? What are the government's plans, as far as the petitioner knows? Could the Minister perhaps give us more information in the context of the desired transparency? I'd like a response. How's the King's commissioner coming along? Who's gonna do that? Is it intended that citizens should go to the ballot box for that too? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party is prepared to give serious consideration to supporting the proposal for deconstitutionalisation, but Mr Jetten will really have to convince us of this first, more than is currently the case. A possible new system should lead to more variation. Smaller parties should also be given an equal opportunity. Women must be given equal opportunities. Our group would like the mayor to be elected by the city council and the king's commissioner by the provincial states. Our group has voted in favour of this initiative law twice in the Lower House and once in the Upper House. However, if we wish to vote for this amendment again today, we would first like to be convinced that the appointment of the mayor and Commissioner of the King is going to be arranged in a better, fair manner. We would like to know how Mr Jetten looks at the objections of, among others, his own D66 mayor from Enschede. Mr. Chairman. It is not easy to change a constitution, even if it has been allocated a great deal of time. As far as my group is concerned, there is still too much uncertainty about the new coloring of the priority rules, and we would much prefer to vote on a transparent overall package, after we have taken note of the opinion of the Remkes Committee on a broader system review. Anyone who wants to get rid of the inherited heir cannot simply remove the cradle from the palace, but will have to come up with an alternative to a democratic procedure. The coalition agreement already announced that the examination of the proposal for a constitutional change would continue, so the outcome of the proposal before us can be guessed. It is widely regarded as change for the other crown jewel of D66, the consultative referendum. D66 has already turned that in. Mr. Chairman. With the Animal Party, we don't like cow trading, in any way. Also for crown jewels is that of swapping, crying; that is already shown by the polls. Government is halve again for D66, as it appears. We look forward to Mr Jetten's answers with interest. After the Night of Van Thijn and the Night of Wiegel, Mr Jetten's proposal could also go out like a night candle, if he fails to polish the old crown jewel to high gloss and with the brilliance of bringing the members of this house from reflection to enthusiasm. Praise the day not for the evening is, or even night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u239	Thank you, Mrs Van Leeuwen. Hold it right there, please. My sincere congratulations on your maiden speech. You have also brought out some fine examples in terms of linguistics. I think we all got a smile on the face from that. And you gave your maiden speech exactly four weeks after your swearing on October 16th. Allow me to outline some of your background. You have been trained to teach English at the Gelderland University of Applied Sciences in Nijmegen. However, that is not the direction you have taken in your working life. Since 2002, you have been working at De Pompecliniek, a private foundation for forensic psychiatry in Nijmegen. You started out as a leave counselor and then worked as a sociotherapist for five years. Subsequently, you were individual path guide, coordinator of outflow and since 1 February of this year you have been coordinator of patient flows. For your work, you have followed several training courses related to forensic psychiatry. At the same time, you went to law school at Radboud University Nijmegen. In the meantime, you became active for the Party of Animals. I also thought the cow business was a very nice metaphor. You started as a general board member of the Party for Animals in Gelderland and from 2013 to 2015 you were chairman of the Gelderse department. During that time you also followed the party's framework training. In 2015 you became secretary of the National Party Board and in April 2016 you were elected party chairman. That's you so far. Membership of the First Chamber is your first function as a People's Representative for the Party for Animals. In your spare time you alternate very active hobbies like golf surfing and traveling with watching movies and reading books. You don't do golf surfing in Gelderland, I take it. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further entry into the Upper House. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I have done so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u240	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 34716, the proposal for a law of Mr Jetten amending the Constitution, aimed at the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u241	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Leeuwen on her maiden speech from this place on behalf of my group. I would also like to welcome Mr Jetten to this Chamber on behalf of my group and congratulate him on his promotion as chairman of the political group, at least I assume that he will experience this as a promotion and wish him every success in his new role. Mr. Chairman. Today we are once again discussing the initiative legislative proposal on deconstitutionalisation. Where I speak of "the mayor," I also mean the king's commissioner. My group wishes to emphasise that we are not fundamentally opposed to the amendment of Article 131 or any of the other articles in Chapter 7 of the Constitution, should this be necessary in order to change the way in which the mayor is appointed. We consider it necessary to strengthen citizens' control over the organisation of their living environment, and this also applies to the appointment of directors, including the mayor. As is well known, my party, including the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) A situation that has actually existed since the beginning of this century, and which we are pleased to note has never deviated from the nomination of the city council since 2001. Although there is still formal mention of a crown appointment both in the Constitution and in the Municipal Act, the city council, as directly elected by the citizens, determines who will be his mayor and can play its independent and binding role on the basis of the confidence it enjoys from the council. Mr. Chairman. In April 2015, after an in-depth debate at first reading, the First Chamber agreed to amend Article 131, thus removing the appointment of the Mayor from the Constitution. Two key questions were raised by the PvdA Group in that initial examination of the legislative proposal. Those points have also been reviewed several times this afternoon. What is the urgent social or legal need for the removal from the Constitution of the mayor's appointment? In other words, what social problem is the legislative proposal going to solve? And two, what is the urgency, in anticipation of the debate on the future organisation of local government and the position of the mayor in it, which my group also wants, to proceed to deconstitutionalisation? In other words, should the constitutional change be the starting point or the final point? Neither the author nor the government gave a convincing response at first reading, and this led to the PvdA Group voting against the legislative proposal by a large majority. We have not yet come to our disappointment, but we hope that the author of the legislative proposal will also present substantive arguments for his proposal today and will not insist that it is merely a technical adjustment and the removal of a hybrid situation. Mr. Chairman. What is the problem, I ask Mr Jetten, that his bill should be dealt with? Let me reverse the question. What does deconstitutionalisation yield in the eyes of the petitioner? What will be better for citizens if we leave the method of appointment, suspension and dismissal to the ordinary legislator? I would like to invite Mr Jetten to come up with a substantive answer in this debate and, unlike in the written debate, not to be satisfied with the answer he believes that the method of appointment belongs to the Municipal Act or to refer to the intentions of Thorbecke. In this context, my group notes once again that until now the constitutionalist has always chosen to leave the method of appointment in the Constitution. I'd like the author's reaction. Mr. Chairman. The author of the legislative proposal considers it important that more flexibility is created by constitutionalisation. The ordinary legislator is then given the opportunity to participate in developments in local government and, if necessary, to adapt the method of appointment. On this point, the Council of State has made a critical remark: "The substantive value of the Constitution's rules need not only to be in the state-law sense of the office, but may also be in the constancy of the method of appointment. Whatever the method of appointment, it should not be able to be changed at any time to the insights or incidents of the day." How does Mr Jetten see it? What is his view on the importance of consistency and continuity in the appointment of the mayor, not the least important body in our administrative system, I say somewhat euphemistic. How does he ensure that the appointment method is not changed in each cabinet formation as a result of the exchange of programme items? Of course, you can make different choices with regard to the method of appointment, but does the proposer agree with the members of my group that flexibilisation entails the risk that the method of appointment, and hence the organisation of local government, will go hand in hand with varying views of coalitions? And does he think that's desirable? We still have a fresh memory of the low level of uplifting in relation to the repeal law consultative referendum. Can the applicant indicate how he intends to ensure this risk? Is it not precisely the Constitution that guarantees continuity and acceptance of the appointment? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my next point. Why does the petitioner and why does the minister now want to de-constitutionalise, in anticipation of a broad debate on the future of local democracy and in consequence local government, including the position of the council, the aldermen and the mayor? Do they think that is wise? During the first reading of the bill, the minister's predecessor undertook to direct an orderly discussion on the basis of knowledge and insights. My group appreciates the way in which he has done so, but notes, having said that, that although many valuable opinions and insights have been generated, this has not yet led to a final picture on the basis of which it can be assessed what this means for amending Article 131 and other articles in Chapter 7. In the further consideration of Chapter 7 of the Constitution, my group reads that an amended method of appointment may have an impact on the position of the mayor in the municipal administration and thus on other constitutional articles: 124, 125, 127 and 129. From the appointment possibilities presented by the previous Minister, it is clear that at least one of them, i.e. the mayor directly elected by the population, is tensioning with Article 125, which lays down the head of the board. Political wishes of the council may conflict with those of the mayor. Then who is in charge: the mayor directly elected by the citizens or the city council directly elected by the citizens? Does the author share my group's view that both bodies can be opposed? Does it serve the unity of government in his view and does it not weaken the position of the council? Does the author consider that appropriate? We also like to ask the Minister the same questions. In my group's view, it is far from preferable to establish the final picture first and then to change the constitution in those areas where this is necessary. Does the author agree with us? And if not, why not? I also like to ask the Minister the same questions. Mr. Chairman. We now have a large number of valuable opinions, including those of the Public Administration Board, the Van de Donk Committee, the Dutch Society of Mayors, the VNG and several professors. There are a number of points in these opinions that we cannot avoid. There is broad agreement on the tasks and roles of the mayor and the values associated with it: integrity, independence, impartiality, all of this in the context of his accountability to the constitutionally highest body, the city council. Those values are shared so widely that they must also be expressed in the view of all the advisory parties in a different position and manner. Does the petitioner agree with them? I also ask the Minister the same question. There is also broad agreement on the point that deconstitutionalisation should be seen in the light of the functioning of the mayor in a future local system and not as an isolated dispute: first, the debate on the possible future organisation of local government, for which deconstitutionalisation might be necessary, and not pre-constitutionalisation. My group would like to hear from the author why, unlike the many experts consulted, he finds a preliminary discussion so difficult. Why, in his view, should we first deconsulate and only then can we have the debate on the desired final picture? Finally, one final question to the Minister. As has already been said, the minister's predecessor has provided a good basis for continuing the debate on the future of local government and the position of the mayor. Does the Minister agree with my group, and if so, how and when does it propose to come to the final picture desired by many?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u242	I would like to go back to what Mrs Vlietstra said earlier and which I had hoped she would clarify. It has begun, at least almost begun, by saying that we already have in fact a mayor elected by the city council, as the PvdA has in its election programme. So if that's true, that's a big change in the mayor's manner of appointment compared to the last century. Next, she says: if we deconstitutionalise now, ordinary legislation, so in the event of an incident, can change the way in which we are appointed every four years. I do not understand that logic, because under the current legislation, too, ordinary legislation has, in your view apparently in the event of an incident, introduced a far-reaching change in the appointment, so far that it even meets your demand of an elected mayor. Why, then, should the position deteriorate if it is deconsulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u243	The actual situation is that we have de facto a mayor elected by the council, I said. Others have emphasized that, too. What is stated in the Constitution and still in the ordinary law is that we have a crowned mayor. At some point that will have to be adapted, should the final image indeed be a shared final image of the Second and then the First Chamber that we are going for a mayor elected by the council. But that does not necessarily mean that the way in which the Constitution is appointed is also out of the Constitution. So first we want an orderly debate on where we want to go. Then we want to see whether this entails changes for the Constitution and, if so, which one. Choosing another way of naming does not necessarily mean taking that appointment out of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u244	I am making desperate attempts to understand the logic of the PvdA Group. If I follow this ship ownership correctly, Mrs Vlietstra says that the current method of appointment, in which, according to the PvdA, the mayor is elected by the council, is actually contrary to the Constitution because that Constitution has not been amended. If something has not been organized, then it is the procedure that has been followed so far. Then I do not understand how Mrs Vlietstra can at the same time oppose deconstitutionalisation. Because that then justifies the current procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u245	I don't think that's true. At the time when it is decided to de-constitutionalise, the ordinary law still states that we have a crown-appointed mayor. This is in two places: in the Constitution and in the ordinary law. The discussion we are having here is about whether we want to deconstitutionalise. What are the reasons for that? My group does not think that this is urgent because the actual situation is satisfactory at the moment. And if we feel that we want to do so, my group believes that we should first have the substantive debate on how to see the future of local government. And how do we see the mayor's position in that? Deferred from that, how do we see the mayor's appointment? Only then will we see what this means for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u246	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u247	I understand your position even more clearly now, and I understand more clearly why you are opposed to this initiative law. However, I would like to point out that if the ordinary law continues to state that there is a crown designation, which is not at all contrary to the deletion of Article 131.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u248	I also mentioned the issue of consistency and continuity. I've asked questions about that, too. I have also quoted the Council of State. There may also be other reasons, such as consistency and continuity, to ensure the appointment of a mayor and the important role he plays in our order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u249	Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In terms of consistency, I would like to ask a question that has been asked a great deal. Mrs Vlietstra says: first we want a vision and then we want to talk about deconstitutionalisation. You can already feel it coming. I remember a debate in 2005, in which the Labour Party Group claimed exactly the opposite. Then it was said that we do not want to accept deconstitutionalisation, because we see a vision or a legislative proposal coming, and that is why we cannot talk purely about deconstitutionalisation. My question to that effect is: is the position of the Labour Party not determined by what the appointment procedure looks like? In other words, if we had not completed the legal method of appointment in 2001 in the way that is now satisfactory to the PvdA Group, would you have been in favour of deconstitutionalisation? And if there had been a different bill in 2005 than there was then, couldn't that have been a reason to be there for it? So doesn't the Labour Party have a bit of a tendency to charge the suspicion that it is mainly party political factors that determine the judgment on whether or not to destitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u251	I can simply say no to that, Mr. Chairman. I started by saying that we are not fundamentally opposed to deconstitutionalisation. However, we believe that you should have good reasons for doing so. We haven't heard it so far. That is what this debate is for, so I sincerely hope that Mr Jetten will come up with better arguments in my view than the argument that it is a technical operation. But we also believe, and certainly heard all the opinions that have reached us, that you should first have the debate on where we want to go, and then look at the way in which the Constitution may need to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u252	That answer confirms my observation that these are not arguments of principle or of state, but of political substance. So what is appropriate at the moment in the eyes of the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u253	I don't think I said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u254	No, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u255	I sincerely believe that you should conduct the debate in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u256	I come now with a question that is a bit of a variant to the question I had earlier. That debate is taking place. Some groups, as well as the PvdA Group, speak as if we were in some sort of air vacuum. That's not true at all. Even if we deconstitutionalise, there is a law governing how the mayor and the Commissioner are appointed. Your view is also, when I hear it so, that the current method is quite a good one. Then why the concern? Why, then, the concern of ordinary majorities to do that democratic process of renewal? Why does the PvdA want to block this by always requiring a two-thirds majority in a second term? That renewal process you want to do locally. I would perhaps expect the PvdA to support this call for democratic renewal at local level, on the contrary, by making legislation more flexible on that point. That is a substantive, party-political view, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u257	In my view, there is nothing wrong with content, party politics. The debate at first reading ended with a broad shared view here that it would be good to have a substantive debate. At that time, the previous minister undertook to do a piece of work for that purpose. That's what happened. There's a lot down there now. It is my group's wish to continue this debate on the basis of what is now at stake. I also asked the Minister how she intends to proceed with this. That debate is coming to an end. And if that outcome makes it necessary to proceed to deconstitutionalisation, you will find us on your way. But in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u258	That is not entirely an answer to my question, but rather a repeat of what you said earlier. There's nothing wrong with that, by the way. My question is why you are hiding behind such a complicated procedure as we believe that the way local authorities are governed should lead to democratisation. You can still have that debate with each other even after the constitutionalisation. Why this reluctance on the part of the Labour Party to help shape this democratic renewal through ordinary legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u259	I don't know if it's restraint. For the record, the proposal has not come from us. We are therefore looking for the more profound intentions of the initiator in order to proceed to de-constitutionalisation at the moment. We don't see the urgency. We are satisfied with the system as it now operates, and we are satisfied with the debate that will have to follow. So we do not see the need to take such a far-reaching decision as proposed in the initiative proposal at the moment, in anticipation of that broad debate. And I really hope that the Minister will get to work on that broad debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u260	Finally, Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u261	Very briefly, then, Mr. Chairman. What principles would the PvdA Group like to give to this debate? I am talking about substantive principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u262	Well, there have been a lot of reviews here this afternoon and I have mentioned some myself. For me, what has emerged from all the opinions on the important tasks and roles of a mayor is very important; I also know them from my own practice. I think it is very important that this is guaranteed at least, whatever choice we make in the subsequent debate. But there's more like it. I am not in a position to mention that, but I think that at least that very important position of the mayor, and also the values that go with it, should be secured in that debate. Several groups have mentioned the importance of this position here this afternoon. That position and those values must continue to play an important role in the final picture as it will eventually be established. Again, if that means that we will have to make changes to the Constitution, then we will look very seriously at it. We don't say no to that in advance, but we think you should do it in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u263	An interruption at this point, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u264	Mrs Vlietstra now refers as a prerequisite to maintaining the important tasks and powers that the mayor now has. Now, as far as I know, they can all be changed by ordinary law. So why is that reason to maintain the crown designation in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u265	It almost seems like I have to defend where it should remain in the Constitution. There is a proposal for Mr Jetten to use the de-constitutionalisation, that is to say to remove the method of appointment from the Constitution. My group does not see the urgency of this. Mr Jetten will have to convince us of that. And b my group thinks that Mr Jetten chooses the opposite order. You may disagree with that, but that is what we find in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u266	Please continue with your speech, Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u267	Mr President, I had one more paragraph. I'm rounding up. My group believes that local government should be seen as a coherent whole that can only be changed in coherence. Not by taking out one element without involving the rest. We therefore regard a possible constitutional change as the final stage of the debate and not as the starting point for it. Nevertheless, we are, of course, waiting with great interest for the answers of the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u268	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u269	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u270	It was our pleasure to make it right for you, despite your disability at the moment. We admire the fact that, despite your recent operation, you are still here. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u271	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I congratulate Mr Van Leeuwen on her beautiful maiden speech this afternoon and welcome Mr Jetten, the initiator of this bill. Mr. Chairman. "Slow law is the art of lawmaking." According to our former colleague Willem Witteveen in his posthumously published book De wet as a work of art. He advocated a "slow law movement, which has its own enclaves in the margins of grinding policy machines where laws are prepared in peace and quiet, equipped with high-quality and usable standards systems that are based on a good understanding of the facts." According to Witteveen, the First Chamber should be such an enclave. "Slow law is the art of lawmaking." If we fit this motto in the course of this legislative proposal, the procedure of first and second reading provides for the desired slowness of the pace and time for reflection. At the same time, we can also realise that the actual art of lawmaking has yet to begin. What exactly needs to be done in ordinary legislation, after the deconstitutionalisation of the method of appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor, is currently being left open. This is left to the ordinary legislator. Nevertheless, here are the big questions in this debate. This is evident from the various contributions that have already been made here this afternoon. It has often been said that you cannot get the appointment of Commissioner and Mayor out of the Constitution without talking about how the whole public administration building should be understood. It is not just about political but also about the political understanding of public administration, for example when it comes to coherence in administrative relations. Our group therefore still has a number of pressing questions. We are looking for clarification in this debate. We distinguish the position of the commissioner, who has his own powers of government, from that of the mayor. Mr. Chairman. If we look at the history of these offices and their place in the public administration, you could see two lines. After the French time, the Netherlands became a united state. Decentralised, but with the clear intention of giving the national government the power to make an administrative unit through general legislation and government of our country. The power of the provinces was considerably reduced and the municipalities remained independent with self-government, but not entirely autonomous. They are connected by joint management to other administrative bodies. This line included the state-appointed mayor and commissioner. There is also another line of thinking which emphasizes the independence of municipalities in particular. For the sake of local political life, local authorities should be given as much responsibility as possible. In addition, it is not a state-appointed mayor, but a mayor nominated by the municipality. This line of thinking is supported by my own political tradition. Abraham Kuyper already broke the staff in Our Program from 1879, the first written political party program in our country, about the appointed mayor and commissioner, whom he called "involved" from outside. He even called them both a "royal inspector" and the Commissioner also bore an "unpatriotic title" because the Commissioner was actually the prefect of a region, as the French once saw. Another point of criticism was that the persons appointed by the Empire were the colour of the ruling rule and all too often not of the local population. I quote this to point out that a crown appointment of mayor or Commissioner is not sacrosanct in my own political tradition either. The current method of appointment is already much better than in the past, when local directors from the State newspaper had to find out who became their mayor or commissioner. Fortunately, the situation in which the Council is presenting a proposal has already been achieved and we support it. We are also pleased about this, as have previous speakers. However, if the crown designation is to come out of the Constitution, the profit must be taken into account in the current method of appointment. According to the Public Administration Board, the current procedure in which the local and provincial authorities make a proposal is reasonably "balanced." If that is a completely different system, in which the people directly elect the mayor, we will open a Pandora box. As far as my group is concerned, that should certainly not happen. This means that the head of the city council must remain intact in the proposals that are still under way and that there will be no separate political mandate for the mayor. That has been argued here earlier this afternoon, and that is exactly what we think. This guarantees the independence of the mayor and his position over the parties. It also opens up the possibility of appointing people without a political colour, and we welcome that. The main body of the city council is laid down in Article 125 of the Constitution. That article does not change, there are no proposals for that, so that remains, and I do not see any intention to do so either. As far as we are concerned, this Article 125 is important in order to guarantee the current procedure. Can the petitioner and the minister address the question of whether the integrity of this Article 125 of the Constitution, which designates the city council or states as head of the municipality and province, remains intact when the current method of appointment of mayor and commissioner disappears from the Constitution? And, in view of Article 124 of the Constitution, where the power to "regulate and govern" is left to municipal councils, how can it be guaranteed that municipalities will not each go their own way when it comes to appointing the mayor? Mr. Chairman. Then, in the hopefully slow process of legislation, the profits of the functioning of the state-wide public administration must be taken into account. Research into the functioning of mayors from 2013 appointed the hybrid character of the post: on the one hand the independent, independent symbol function and on the other hand the dependent, political and collegial administrative function. More and more the mayor is drawn to this latter role concept and this makes him vulnerable. Mayors are concerned about their authority and their impartial role, according to that investigation. At the same time, a lot of mayors come from being public order guards, with increasing large-scale crime and aggression. In this situation, they need the support of higher levels of government. The crown designation symbolizes the connection with the Empire, giving an external identification and thus concrete support to mayors in their functioning. Will the author, now that he wishes to remove the crowning title from the Constitution, reflect on this? And will the Minister do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u272	I would ask Mr Kuiper to reflect on the following point, namely that of independence and impartiality and the function of the crown appointment in it. In my speech, I tried to point out that the crown appointment is a formal conclusion, but that the crux of the whole appointment of the mayor is that others have said that it is still with the city council. In that light, how can we prevent us from going in a direction with the mayor or ending up in a situation that you fear so much? My assessment is that the current procedure also constitutes a vulnerability for the mayor, namely that the reappointment procedure is in the hands of the city council and that the dismissal procedure is actually in the hands of the city council. That must mean something for the position and office of the mayor, especially in the light of those important tasks you mention. Do you agree with me that this vulnerability is a matter of concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u273	I thank Mr Engels for the question. I get it, because you say that there could be a relationship of dependence between the council and the mayor if the council actually elects the mayor. It's possible. That's why we need to guarantee the mayor's independence. It is an important part of the roles, tasks and powers he has under the law. It is, of course, also partly in its position as President of the Council, to which it must respond independently and impartially. In doing so, what I have just referred to as the external identity, which is present in the current system, could help by sanctioning at least the Ministry of the Interior, and indeed the Crown, formally. So I think it is important that this vertical connection also remains intact in the new system. That's how I'd reflect on your question. Mr. Chairman. The King's commissioner also occupies his own place in the headquarters of the local government. His powers enshrined in other places in the Constitution do not change, for example, that he can receive an instruction, but more than the mayor, the King's Commissioner is a state official, a sovereign. The king's commissioner has to pay attention to administrative cooperation and administrative integrity in and between municipalities. This could be in favour of maintaining the crown appointment, which is also enshrined in the Province Act. I would like to hear from the author about the position of the King's Commissioner. Has he considered whether or not to deconstitutionize the way the mayor was appointed and the Commissioner's? What is the Minister's view on this? Mr. Chairman. There is indeed a political need to say what is now being proposed. But the constitutionalisation of the method of appointment calls for a broader reflection on public administration than that which is taking place today. It calls for good reflection, slow law and a good understanding of the facts, to quote former colleague Witteveen again. It will then depend on the confidence in the forthcoming legislative debate if the confidence can be created that deconstitutionalisation is a good and responsible step at the moment. My group, too, needs more clarity on that final picture that various groups are discussing and on which my group also wants to speak, so that we at least have some guidance on the route that is being taken to maintain coherence between what we are doing with the Constitution and what we would like to see in the legislation later. So for my group, too, that is a very important question in this important debate. It is ultimately about the Constitution. The answers of the petitioner and the minister are important for us to feed on that trust that I spoke of, whether we are really taking good steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u274	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 6:30. This break includes dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u275	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 34716, the proposal for a law of Mr Jetten amending the Constitution, aimed at the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. I give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u276	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen for their contributions today, in particular Mrs Van Leeuwen, whom I also congratulate on her maiden speech. Extremely exciting contributions and questions have been reviewed. I am about to answer the questions that have been asked to me. I'll do my best to do it as best I can. As you know, I am here on behalf of the House of Representatives. This means that in my response I will concentrate on this bill. I hope you will be able to discuss questions about the future and other matters with the Minister, but where I have been asked about them I will also briefly consider them. Allow me to begin with a special thank you to Gerard Schouw. He is not only the author of the legislative proposal at first reading, but also one of my political mentors. As some of you may know, Mr Ten Hoeve has already referred to this. My political career has once started as an intern policy officer for Mr Schouw and Mr Engels, at the time the two-headed D66 group, here in the Upper Chamber. I would also like to express my thanks here to all the employees and advisers involved who have worked in the background. I am particularly grateful today to the senators for the careful examination of this second reading, as well as to all the experts who took part in meetings and made their views known through position papers. I'll divide my answer into the following blocks. Firstly, the constitutional aspects, then the reason and purpose of the legislative proposal, and finally the relationship of this legislative proposal with any future proposals. Madam President. First of all, I am talking about the constitutional aspects of the legislative proposal. The draft law aims to amend the Constitution in such a way that it no longer stipulates that Commissioners of the King and mayors are appointed by royal decree, but that the method of appointment is determined by law. This fits perfectly with the nature of our Constitution. We have a sober Constitution, which is based on a great confidence of the constitutionalist in the ordinary legislator and, in particular, in Article 132, which leaves the organisation and organisation of the decentralised system to a large extent to the ordinary legislator. It also fits in with the Constitution with regard to the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor, apart from the provision we are discussing today, which does not provide more than that they form part of the administration of the province or the municipality. Nothing else, apart from a provision on the possibility of an instruction of office for the Queen's Commissioner, in particular nothing about the mayor's duties and powers, nothing about being chairman of the council, nothing about his independence and impartiality and nothing about his powers in the field of public policy. I also think it is very sensible that the Constitutionalist has left the regulation of the tasks and powers of the King's Commissioner and the mayor to the legislator. I do have a critical point about the fact that the Constitutionalist has made an exception on this point for the way in which the mayor and the King's Commissioner are appointed. The mandatory appointment by royal decree does not meet the two criteria that I believe should apply to the incorporation into the Constitution: it is not essential for the rights and obligations of citizens and it is not essential for the organisation of important state institutions. However, the effect of prescribing the appointment by royal decree is that the way in which these officials are appointed also gives them the image of a government official, while in the Constitution they are, first and foremost, a municipal or provincial body. History shows, specifically for the mayor, a development from national mockery to citizen's father; Mr Kuiper also spoke about this development. As Mr Rombouts pointed out, the King's Commissioner is also seen as a rich body, but that is not laid down in the Constitution either. In the Constitution, he is an organ of the province. It is only from his traditional naming that he would have a special relationship with the King or with the government that there is a misunderstanding. He is only a wealthy body if and to the extent that the ordinary legislator makes use of the possibility of entrusting the King's commissioner with the performance of an instruction of office to be given by the government. This development has been reflected in the appointment procedure. In this context, the current procedure has gone almost to the limit which can be deemed to be in accordance with the Constitution and which in any case does not correspond to the original intention of the Constitutionalist of 1848. That is, in itself, significant. It is unlikely that future thinking about the appointment of the King's Commissioner and the mayor will take us back. This bill allows for variants in which the manner of appointment of these officials will be purely a provincial or municipal matter. The draft law wants to make room for this, nothing more and nothing less, but it also leaves room for maintaining the current procedures or an amended method of appointment in which the Empire continues to play a role. Nor does the bill prevent the law from requiring the King's Commissioner to carry out an instruction given by the government. The possibility of this is also still contained in the Constitution. This will also be possible if the legislator opts for a purely provincial procedure for the appointment of the King's Commissioner. That is why this bill does not extend to the current Article 126 concerning the instruction of the King's Commissioner. The fact that, with regard to the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor, the constitutionalist has so little to do with their position, duties and powers, which I have just spoken about, does not, of course, mean that the organic legislator must remain within the Constitution when determining how they are to be appointed. The most relevant provisions are Article 125 concerning the headship of the Provincial States and the Council and Article 129 (4) concerning the four-year term of office for Provincial States and Council. Moreover, I do not see, as Mrs Huijbregts asked, that Articles 125 and 131 would balance each other. They're about different things. The Article 125-based headship of the Council and of Provincial States says something about their powers. Article 131 deals with the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner. Therefore, I do not see any balance sheet, at least not at the level of the Constitution, nor, therefore, any disruption of the balance sheet with this legislative proposal. It is now and also in the future for the legislator to regulate the relationship between the functions and powers of the council, the mayor and the college of B and W, taking into account the head of the board. Let me stress this: with due regard for the head of the council. I trust that this will reassure Mr Köhler and Mr Kuiper. Mr Kuiper also mentioned Rule 124, but I do not think he gave that quite correctly. He said that it leaves the power of regulation and administration to municipal councils, but Article 124 talks about leaving those powers to the governments of provinces and municipalities. Under Article 125, the mayor and the college of B and W are part of this, with the head of the board. In the end, Article 132 requires the law to govern the powers of administrative authorities of provinces and municipalities. In his note of 17 April 2015, the then Minister of the Interior made an effort to explore the merits of some variants for the appointment of the mayor; Ms Vlietstra referred to this. In doing so, he also addressed the question of whether they needed to amend the Constitution. This showed that all variants except one will be in line with the current constitutional articles, also considered in relation to each other, provided that the present legislative proposal becomes law. This implies that I do not agree with Mr Ten Hoeve's assumption that further developments may conflict with constitutional limits. The one variant for which a further constitutional revision would be necessary is that of the heavy presidential mayor. It then appoints the aldermen and has the power to dissolve the board. This variant is not possible without further constitutional changes, as it will soon conflict with Articles 125 and 129 concerning the head of the board and the four-year term of office of that council. I therefore agree with Mr Köhler on this point. From the fact that the present bill does not provide for the amendment of articles other than Article 131, you may conclude that I do not think it is necessary to create constitutional space for the variant of the very heavy presidential mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u277	I think I was a little too fast. Even though Mr. Jetten is here for the first time, this isn't a maiden speech, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u278	That would be very easy for me tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u279	I had the feeling that the first ten minutes were given to you as such, which is not the custom here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u281	Did I understand correctly from the initiator that after deconstitutionalisation all variants and all modalities are possible, but that he himself does not like the Presidential type of mayor, as well as the fact that this constitutionality is at odds with the head of the council?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u282	Yeah, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u284	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u285	My question is about a little bit back. You mentioned Article 125 of the Constitution. You wanted to reassure me. On Rule 124, as you say, it is correct. But my point was: because regulation and governance are entrusted to decentralised directors, they obviously also have room to organise it in their own way. Anyway, that's not what my question is about. Rule 125 speaks of the headship. There was also Mrs Huijbregts' point: with Rule 131 we are going to do something, in the way you propose. Does this mean, as far as the method of appointment is concerned, that the interpretation of Article 125 is such that it does not actually tolerate giving a mandate to the mayor through a direct election, in addition to that headship? Was that the point of reassurance you wanted to offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u286	Yes, that's right, but let me say a little more about that, if you'll allow me, Mr. President. In his work as Minister of the Interior, Mr Plasterk worked out a number of variants for the directly elected mayor, one being the heavy presidential mayor, who also has powers in the appointment and dismissal of aldermen and the possible dissolution of the city council. I am not going to vote for that heavy variant, because we should have tabled a different legislative proposal at first and second readings. The other variants, I believe, are possible after this constitutional change and will therefore have to be taken into account in the wider debate that we will then have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u287	I am asking for a variant in which a mayor gets a direct mandate from the voter through direct elections. That mandate will then stand next to the head of the municipality. Are you keeping that variant in the air or are you saying that Article 125 of the Constitution actually makes it impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u288	I think we're holding up Article 125 with this constitutional change. Within the amended Constitution, the head of the Board remains the main starting point of local government. That is therefore a framework within which we can organise a different method of appointment of the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u289	I did not quite understand what Mr Jetten meant by saying about my vision. My feeling was, and I think he said the same thing, that within the current constitutional regime, including Article 131, there are still all the possibilities for the appointment of a mayor, possibly an elected mayor, except for the extreme form of the presidential mayor and possibly other extreme forms. That's what I meant, and I think he means the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u290	Yes, I think Mr Ten Hoeve and I are close together. In the development of Mr Plasterk, three main variants have been distinguished: variants based on a crown appointment, a council appointment and a mayor directly elected by the people. In this context, it has been pointed out that a large proportion of these variants do require the adaptation of Article 131 of the Constitution. After that, I don't see any more conflicts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u291	Still very sharp. I am glad in itself that Mr Jetten says that the head of the council remains in place. But it is not entirely clear to me what that means, for example in a situation of a directly elected mayor, with a mandate from those same citizens who have also given their mandate to the directly elected city council. Do you think that's possible and how do you see this affair? I have also asked questions about this, and perhaps you will come to that. Then there's my second question. You are placing a great deal of emphasis on the sober nature of the Constitution. That would not make it necessary to leave the method of appointment of the mayor, whatever that may be, in the Constitution. I have asked you, and I have also quoted the Council of State, whether there are any other factors, in addition to this austerity, which could lead to the appointment of the Constitution, namely consistency and the possibility of other methods of appointment being agreed every four years at varying majorities. I hope you will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u292	Later in my reply, I will elaborate on arguments other than austerity, such as social developments and legal circumstances, which Mrs Vlietstra and others have asked for. If you'll allow me, I'll come back to that later. Mrs Vlietstra's first question was about the presidential mayor. I am now here as the initiator of the second reading of the constitutional change, so I do not feel entirely free to explore all the different variants that exist. The fact that with this amendment of the Constitution we are amending only Article 131 makes it clear that I do not see any need to allow that heavy presidential mayor, because we would have had to table a different constitutional amendment. In the development of Minister of the Interior Plasterk it has been stated that directly elected mayors are possible who are not considered to be major presidential mayors. These are mayors who do relate to the head of the council, but in which the citizen is given a greater role in choosing the mayor. Then I come to the cause and purpose of the bill. About why the bill has been tabled, questions have been asked by Mrs Huijbregts, among others. In the parliamentary debate on the legislative proposal before us, many times have referred to the many earlier state committees which considered that the ordinary legislator should have the power to determine the way in which the mayor is appointed, as mentioned by a number of members. It began with the Thorbeck Constitutional Commission in 1848, followed by the Heemskerk State Commission in 1887, the Ruijs de Beerenbrouck State Commission in 1922, the Cals/Donner State Commission in 1971, the Van Thijn Chamber Committee in 1993 and the Elzinga State Commission in 1999. This bill is therefore about a debate that has been going on since 1848; 170 years. Then we can only see that in all these years the constitutionally prescribed crown appointment has apparently been seen as an obstacle to free discussion and to be able to decide at the level of the ordinary legislator on the social and administrative most desirable method of appointment for the King's and the Mayor's Commissioner. In response to questions from Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Huijbregts, I think that is a social problem: it cannot effectively discuss and decide on an important aspect of the organisation of public administration. In theory, it might also have been possible to start a discussion on the method of appointment of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor without paying attention to the fact that the current constitutional provision precludes virtually any change to the current regime in the Municipal Act and the Province Act, unless one would like to return to earlier regulations. But that's not how it happened. By submitting the legislative proposal and adopting it by the Second and First Chambers at first reading, perspective has emerged on a wider jurisdiction for the legislator. Partly because of that, the discussion is over. This is evident from the many explorations, reports and opinions that are already there. I would add that current social developments should also give rise to discussion on what the role of mayors and Commissioners of the King should be and what form of appointment would be best suited to this. I have recently looked at the decentralisation alone, the undermining of local government by criminals and the growing role of local parties. This has been referred to by several political groups. The social importance of the legislative proposal now before us is therefore that, if, instead of the legislator, the ordinary legislator becomes responsible, it is possible to respond more quickly and more easily to social developments, no matter how valuable a degree of stability in the organisation of our administration is. In the end, this will also help citizens, in response to a question from Mrs Vlietstra. They're getting better governance. This is not a one-to-one, causal link, because in the end the citizens get the administration for which they have elected in elections. But no matter how indirect that connection is, it does not dismiss us as legislators. I do not see the risk that Mrs Vlietstra has put forward that the method of appointment and hence the organisation of local government will move along with different views of coalitions. We have no tradition in this country in this respect. I welcome the increased need for discussion and the fact that there are already reflections and notes that the legislator will be able to take advantage of in the future, but I also believe that there is a risk that all these reports and opinions will play an excessive role in the decision-making process on the legislative proposal now before us in this Chamber, which merely seeks to deconstitutionalise the methods of appointment of the Commissioner of the King and Mayors. As far as I have an influence on that, I do not want to give any cause for it myself. At the same time, I understand the concerns of many speakers, such as Mr Kuiper, Mr Rombouts, Mrs Huijbregts and Mrs Vlietstra. In general, I support the idea that the discussion should begin with the question of what the role and position of the King's Commissioner and the mayor should be, and then determine what the appropriate method of appointment would be. I would also like to support the idea of the mayor's tasks, role and method of appointment as part of a broader judgment on strengthening local and regional governance. On this point, I share Mr Engels' observations and conclusions. I also agree with the points raised by Mr Rombouts, in particular regarding mayorship, where the consequences of deconstitutionalisation and legislative changes to be considered should be considered which could be followed. Mr Rombouts mentioned: the special position of the mayor and the Commissioner in our state system and the decentralised nature of our state system, the continuity and stability of administration in municipalities and provinces, the head of the council, the relationship of the mayor with aldermen, the important current task of the mayor, as mayor of all citizens, and finally a consistent way of appointment. As far as I am concerned, all these aspects must be part of a broader discussion that can be held. I also mentioned current developments in the area of undermining the integrity of local government. Unfortunately, we must also consider the recent threats to mayors. Madam President. A mayor must have sufficient authority to stand up to threats from the underworld. I also agree with Mr Schalk on this point. But when it comes to how we achieve that goal, I agree more with Mr Lintmeijer. Firstly, it depends on the personal qualities, the state of service and the behaviour of the mayor. But the appointment procedure can also be important for the mayor's mandate and authority. Unfortunately, it has already been found that a royal decree does not guarantee the absence of such excesses. I do not want to say that the other methods of appointment are better in advance when it comes to contributing to the mayor's authority. But if we have to choose between different variants of the mayor's method of appointment, the considerations will undoubtedly include what consequences these variants may have for the mayor's authority. The independence and impartiality of the King's and the Mayor's commissioners are not automatically guaranteed if they are appointed by royal decree. On that point, I disagree with Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u293	I have a question for Mr Jetten on this particular point. He states that a mayor must radiate authority and such. I very much agree with that. But just if a mayor should be elected in all these variants, perhaps by different numbers, then he would only derive his authority from that election and not from a thorough preparation in which a trust committee looked closely at a candidate who has applied himself. There is no doubt that it is also part of the crown nomination that the backgrounds are being checked. As far as the aspects you mention are concerned, can you mention one variant in which they are better secured than in the case of the crown designation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u294	I believe that this is a judgment that we cannot yet make, because we do not have any detailed proposals. But I agree with Mr Schalk that these are important aspects of the mayor's office. I believe that we can guarantee this in other ways than by including the crown appointment in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u295	But that is precisely the point; we cannot judge that at the moment. That is also the starting point in my speech this afternoon: why are we getting what we consider to be the most independent now from the Constitution and then going on to discuss all these variants? They are all ready, so the debate could be held. Why this route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u296	I have just tried to do this by repeating the aspects that Mr Rombouts has brought into the debate. There is a fairly broad consensus in both chambers, as well as in all kinds of social institutions, on the fact that there are a number of aspects to the mayor's office and the role that mayors play that we consider important. These aspects can be taken into account in any discussion about a different method of appointment. What I would like to emphasise in reply to Mr Schalk's questions is that taking the crown designation out of the Constitution does not necessarily mean that an independent mayor is no longer possible. I do not share that with Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u297	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u298	I think we will discuss this later in the evening. But I am so curious what other form that independence would improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u299	Yeah, improve or deteriorate. I find it difficult to answer that when it comes to aspects such as the independence and impartiality of the mayor. If, in a broad debate on strengthening local government, we find that the independence and impartiality of the mayor are important, then that is a very important prerequisite in the final choice we make. Perhaps I should take this a little further from my answer, because I might be able to reassure Mr Schalk a little more. I believe that Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer have pointed out in their contributions, but also in the debate on the interruptions, that the personal qualities of the people who ultimately become mayor or commissioner of the King are far more important than the assessment of their independence and impartiality. We have often seen in recent years that people with a clear party political profile who become mayor or commissioner of the King are seen as independent and impartial mayor or commissioner after some time. This is not magical because they are a crowned mayor or commissioner, but because they show with their own qualities that they are able to fulfil that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u300	The scenario my party is afraid of is that in which you have a directly elected mayor, in which multiple candidates will participate in a kind of local election and in which you will have a strong connection between candidates and parts of the population. Perhaps one of these candidates will then achieve the majority and become mayor, with a strong commitment to a part of the population, which will indeed compromise his independence. I'd love it if that variant could be ruled out tonight. And that we say that it is best secured if you choose the path of a mayor elected and nominated by the city council. That would be very reassuring, at least for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u301	The risk which Mr Kuiper points out is particularly raised by the heavy presidential mayor. Then you get a mayor who is directly elected by the people, but who is also given a very large mandate vis-à-vis the College of Mayors and aldermen and vis-à-vis the Council. As I have just indicated, I will not allow the variant of a heavy presidential mayor with this constitutional amendment. So that's where Mr Kuiper and I will find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u302	I understand that, but that presidential mayor is presidential because of the powers he has. We're also talking about the way he gets into office. I didn't hear you say that a direct election would complicate that for you. Those are two distinct things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u303	If we make the aspects mentioned by Mr Rombouts, which I have just reiterated, and a number of other social developments that I have just mentioned important, then we can certainly ensure, in various variants, that independence and impartiality remain guaranteed, or at least receive attention. For example, variants have been developed by the minister, whereby an election of the mayor precedes a selection procedure, whereby the council, together with the city or village, devotes a lot of time to drawing up a job profile, in which you pre-selection before there is an election. These are all guarantees that you could build in to guarantee a number of aspects before the people can directly choose a mayor. But that's not what this bill is about in the end. The only thing I am trying to emphasise is that I share with you that there are some important values that we assign to the mayor and that, in any future discussions, we should also give them a good place before we make a final choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u304	Finally, Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u305	This is not entirely reassuring. Of course, you can list a lot of variants, say that there must be guarantees, etcetera, etcetera. But what I'm saying is that if there's going to be an open election with multiple candidates who are really going to campaign in their local environment, you're really far from home, even when it comes to independence. So we really wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u306	Here comes Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u307	You haven't entirely reassured me either. You say that it is not necessary to guarantee that independence, impartiality, etc. in the Constitution, but that this can also be done in ordinary law. Then I do not hear from you how that would be possible. You refer for a moment to a procedure that we have also had, in which the city council creates a profile and makes a selection. That was at the mayor's referendum, which we got off very quickly. This did not guarantee that independence and impartiality were well secured. I would very much like to hear a little more about the ideas you have about actually shaping that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u308	My most important answer is that this independence and impartiality is largely determined by the way in which people carry out the office of mayor or commissioner of the King. A crown appointment or any other method of appointment or choice is not a guarantee. That is my most important answer to your question. In addition, as I pointed out at the beginning, I take some freedom to briefly reflect on different variants, but in the end I am the author of a second reading of a constitutional amendment, which merely seeks to remove the current method of appointment, crown appointment, from the Constitution and to make it clear that we are adopting this by ordinary law. I share a lot of concerns the Chamber has. I have also repeated a number of aspects which I myself would consider important in the event of a change in the system. But the final weighting and the choice, which we will have to do when a possible legislative proposal for a different method of appointment is at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u309	Following the discussion that just took place with Mr Kuiper. Mr Kuiper actually states that a mayor who is directly elected has a link with some of the citizens, with some of the voters. Is it not equally true, in the situation of an appointed mayor, that a mayor has a connection with a part of the council or with the entire council, and thus indirectly with the citizens, with regard to a reappointment? The risk presented by Mr Kuiper may therefore also arise. Perhaps Mr Jetten can explain that a little bit more. How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u310	I believe that the risk may equally arise and that the answer I have just given is also important, namely that the personal qualities and the state of service of a mayor are more important than the way in which he or she is appointed or elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u311	I have one final question concerning the interpretation of the variants. Mr Jetten has just mentioned one of which he says: at least it should not be. That is what he can say and find here, but the problem is that he will have nothing to say about it in a moment. Perhaps as a Member of Parliament again, if there is some kind of legislative proposal. But we can all take out a few variants here, but that doesn't help, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u312	I have heard a lot of concerns from the House in the first term, which, as far as I am concerned, really concern that heavy presidential mayor. By stating that this constitutional change does not allow this variant, I hope to reassure you somewhat. Because I wouldn't choose that heavy presidential mayor myself. If the proposal comes to you next week, I do not think we will go ice cream with each other in one night either. I will come back in a little bit more detail to the need for legislation, because I also share the concern that we must, of course, avoid choosing a different system every four years following the adoption of this constitutional amendment. I do not think we have a tradition in this country of changing it so quickly and so often, but I shall say a little more about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u313	What do you mean "we won't go ice in one night"? Who's "we"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u314	I think we as legislators, so the Second and the First Chambers. As the initiator of this legislative proposal, I have noticed that in both Chambers, many of the values attributed to mayors and Commissioners are widely shared. From this, I conclude that both chambers will not be iced in one night for any changes to the system if this constitutional change succeeds. Moreover, as a chamber, you are particularly there to prevent us from doing so without proper thought. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words about the letter from the 31 mayors of 2 November. I also include a similar letter of the same date from the Dutch Society of Mayors and some other umbrella organisations and their position papers for the expert meeting held in this Chamber on 10 April 2018. The mayors believe that anchoring their way of appointment in the Constitution helps them to function. I do not wish to contradict that, of course, but I do think that the fact that they have been appointed by royal decree is more sensitive than the legal circumstance that that method of appointment has been incorporated into the Constitution. We must be careful that we do not attribute magical powers to that royal decree. I say this again in response to the questions and comments made by Mr Schalk and Mr Kuiper. Other methods of appointment are also possible, from which the mayor can derive a convincing mandate and undisputed legitimacy. Similarly, the role of Commissioners of the King in monitoring the quality and integrity of local government would be a misunderstanding to believe that this role can only be fulfilled if the Commissioner is appointed by royal decree. He too must first and foremost be of undisputed behavior and have shown himself to be an excellent driver. Only then can he, if necessary, take others the measure. In reply to a question by Mr Kuiper, I note that my predecessor as initiator did not consider the appointment of the mayor and that of the King's Commissioner not to be deconstitutionalised. Also in the Province Law and in the Municipal Law, the differences between the two functions were not found to be so large that this led to different methods of appointment. However, after de-constitutionalisation, the legislator could best decide on different procedures. Mr Rombouts also pointed out this possibility. The discussion on possible other methods of appointment has already begun, but has clearly not yet been completed. As long as that has not led to an amendment of the Municipal Act or the Province Act, nothing changes. So nothing changes about the appointment by royal decree. I say this in response to a question from Mrs Van Leeuwen. From the discussion that has yet to be held, the outcome might well be that there is nothing wrong with the current profile of the mayor or the King's Commissioner, but that there is still another method of appointment that would be more appropriate. But I do not want to anticipate this discussion any further. I do like to agree with the mayors who wrote the letter and with the domes that this discussion should be wide-ranging and that we should take into account the coherence with the role played by other players in local government, in particular the city council and the aldermen. I have also experienced, as a city council member for almost seven and a half years, how important it is to look at this in its entirety. In the letter from the mayors and also in the contribution of some members of this Chamber, the concern is also raised about being at the mercy of the day. First of all, I would like to point out that if there is one procedure in which we do not go ice in this country overnight, it is the amendment of the Constitution. It consists of two lectures in the Second and First Chambers, with the demand of a two-thirds majority in both Chambers in second reading. The fact that there is no delusion of the day is particularly true in the debate we are having today on whether the way in which the King's mayor and commissioner should be appointed should be regulated in the Constitution. This has been the subject of discussion for 170 years, as has been said a number of times this evening. There have also been legislative proposals on this issue between 1997 and 2005. The proposal now before us was submitted six years ago for first reading. In 2013 it was adopted at first reading in the Lower House by 142 votes in favour and in 2015 it was adopted by 48 votes in favour. In second reading, the bill was adopted at the beginning of this year in the Lower House by 147 votes in favour. What is a serious point, however, is that organic legislation must be stable. Mr Rombouts also pointed out this. This resistance means that there is a need for a broad debate on any changes to the Province Law and the Municipal Law. Of course, the VNG, the IPO, the Dutch Society of Mayors, the Wethoudersvereniging, the Dutch Association for Council Members and their political parties will also have to be involved. But I think I can also ask them to have a little confidence in the legislator, in which, as I have just said, it is important that this Chamber should also guard against the delusion of the day. Mr. Chairman. Also to reassure a number of people: I do not intend to table a legislative proposal to amend the Province Act or the Municipal Act very quickly if this bill reaches the State Gazette. This is also in response to a question from Mrs Van Leeuwen. Mr. Chairman. In my view, this brings me to the end of my first reply. I look forward to the second term of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u315	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Every year your Chamber deals with many legislative proposals, but an amendment to the Constitution, as we are discussing here today, is of particular importance. From the role of this Chamber, with always a keen eye on the quality of legislation, you always take great care of this. As the Minister responsible for the Constitution, I do, of course, appreciate that very much. I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Leeuwen on her maiden speech, and I would like to thank Mrs Vlietstra for being here with her leg in the air. But she doesn't seem to be bothered by that at all, if I may say so. It is an honor and a pleasure to be here as an advisor to the cabinet. After all, this is an initiative proposal. Its first reading also contains the name of Mr Schouw, who submitted the proposal in 2012. Today it is Mr Jetten who defends the proposal at second reading and it is my turn, after my predecessor, to be able to explain the government's position. The proposal has a long history. I also think, when I look back at the dossiers, that it has been a subject of careful debate at every stage. Speaking of slow law, as Mr Kuiper so nicely cited Mr Witteveen; slow law and the art of lawmaking. In this second reading, your Chamber asked questions in two written rounds, both to the government and to the initiator. Your Chamber also held an expert meeting with representatives of the King's Circle of Commissioners, the Public Board and scientists. The proposal amends Article 131 of the Constitution. That still determines that the mayor and the king's commissioner are appointed by royal decree. The purpose of the amendment of the Constitution is to instruct the legislator to determine the method of appointment. This is an amendment which the government can support, as has also been shown in the debate in the House of Representatives. The carefulness of the process underlines that this has not taken place overnight. State and principle considerations determine the debate. It is also part of an amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u317	Mr. Chairman. I suddenly see a gentleman. Mr. Chairman. In the speech, I will concentrate mainly on the position of the mayor, but I will also address the specific questions that have been asked about the King's Commissioner. Maybe it's a good idea for me to give you the structure that I put in my order. First, there will be a general introduction, also of a historical nature, after which I will answer questions on the basis of a number of themes: usefulness and necessity, the order of things, guarantees and final image, questions about which I would like to discuss separately, and the Commissioner of the King, as I announced. Finally, I will deal with the other specific questions in the order of the speakers. The government agrees with the initiator that the appointment of the mayor is not of constitutional order, but can be left to the legislator. The way in which the mayor is appointed does not belong to the organisation of the major state institutions, nor does it affect the fundamental rights and duties of citizens. That is not a new view of the government. The question of the division of tasks between the constitutional legislature and the legislature has a long history, which begins with Thorbecke. That is what I said in the first term. Thorbecke considered, in principle, that the legislator should be left free in this respect. He saw in the constitutional arrangement of the mayor's appointment, a wish of King Willem II, an infringement of the principle that the establishment of the municipality should be governed by the organic law. He did not oppose the crown appointment as such, but objected to the fact that there was a deviation from the division of tasks envisaged for him between the constitutionalist and the legislator. In it the determination of the method of appointment was supposed to be a matter for the legislator. By laying down the method of appointment in the Constitution, an advance was made on the establishment of the municipal system and the freedom of the legislator to set up and change that system was unnecessarily limited. Like Thorbecke, the government believes that the way in which the mayor is appointed does not therefore belong in the Constitution. Chapter 7 of the Constitution sets out the main principles of the decentralised administration. Those basic principles are the recognition of local autonomy under Article 124 (1), the head of the board as directly elected parliament under Article 125 (1) and the mandate to the legislator to regulate the administrative establishment of the municipality under Article 132 (1). It is therefore the organic legislator who provides a complete regulation of the establishment of provinces and municipalities in the Gemeentewet. It is therefore more clear that the debate is now only about the deconstitutionalisation and not about the anchoring of the method of appointment. I would say: deconstitutionalisation is the first discussion, so the division of tasks between the constitutionalist and the legislator. If you don't feed it first, you're actually turning it around, which makes the mayor's appointment an isolated issue. The amendment of the constitution thus enables the legislator to fully assume his responsibilities and to give an integral form to the administrative establishment. I would like to emphasise what has just been said, namely that the present legislative proposal does not concern the method of appointment as such. It doesn't get ahead of that either. Should any change be considered in the future, the discussion should focus on the role and position of the mayor in the municipal system, including his relationship to the council, the college and the aldermen and his own powers, including the maintenance of public order and security. The method of appointment should be a derivative of the role and position. Furthermore, the appointment of the mayor cannot be separated from the establishment of the local administration as a whole and the relationship with the Empire and the Province. It is up to the legislator to weigh all these aspects in their coherence. The aim of the constitutional amendment is to enable the legislator to do so. We cannot and should not want to take an advance on what the legislator should do to him after the amendment of the Constitution has been made. If the constitutional body finds that its powers must be terminated, it must remain silent on the way in which the legislator should exercise its new powers. Following the adoption of the Constitutional Amendment, therefore, nothing changes in principle the current method of appointment, as is the case under the Municipal Law: the crown appointment on the recommendation of the Council. I would like to emphasise this in the direction of some mayors who are concerned about this. This appointment procedure will remain in force until the legislator at some point in the future would see reason to consider changing it. Partly thanks to the extensive preparatory work of my predecessor, as Mrs Vlietstra rightly pointed out, we are well prepared for this. The insights about what is of value that have been gained, I would almost say "should"..... can be involved in the future discussion. These are issues on which there is broad consensus, such as the broad appreciation of the mayor's independent and impartial position, the maintenance of public order and security and the promotion of administrative integrity. Mr. Chairman. The government is also not afraid that the legislator will use this freedom, as a result of the constitutional change, to choose a different method of appointment over and over again. Mr Rombouts pointed this out. Changes in the administrative establishment generally have a long run and also prove to be sustainable. Think of the dualisation of the municipal and provincial administration or of the long run-up in the 1980s to the revision of the Municipal Act and the Province Act with their parallel structure. We are now almost ten years away from the deconstitutionalisation of the Presidency of Councils and States without this Presidency having been given any form of interpretation in the Municipal Act, the Province Act and other provisions. Several members have considered the importance of consistency and coherence in their contributions. The government fully supports this. If the legislator wants to prepare a system review in the future, it will only be possible to do so on the basis of a thorough analysis of what is necessary for the public administration and for the position of the mayor, his duties and powers, his relationship to council and college and the relationship between the municipality and county and state. With the broad appreciation I also have of your Chamber for the independent and impartial position of the mayor and his independent duties and powers in relation to these issues, there is also a clear direction for the further development of the office. Here is the remark that the personal qualities and authority of mayors are of great importance for the performance of their duties and that they can continue to count on good support from the Empire at all times. This discussion takes place against the background of the Board's main body and the principle of collegial governance. The Government has no intention of amending Chapter 7 of the Constitution on these points. In the event of a change in the manner of appointment of the mayor in the future, this will therefore be against the background of the current constitutional framework, in which the head of the council and the collegial administration are guiding principles. Finally, a word about the King's Commissioner before I go into the questions more specifically. The amendment of the Constitution also extends to the appointment of the Commissioner. Constitutionally, the commissioner is no different from the mayor. He's an organ of the county. The rules governing his appointment may be entrusted to the organic legislator for the same reasons. In practice, the Commissioner is also a wealthy body. In the context of this debate, there is no distinction between the position of the mayor and the Commissioner. I would like to stress that, once the constitutional change has been accepted, the appointment of the Commissioner will not change. Under the Province Act, he continues to be appointed by royal decree, on the recommendation of Provincial States. So much for my introductory remarks. I will now walk along a number of blocks, as I have just outlined, but before doing so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u318	Before you do that, Mr Kuiper has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u319	Is it true that you're going to talk about the final picture as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u320	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u321	That'll come later. Can I ask the following question at the moment? Thank you for this sketch and your assessment of what we have here. There's a bit of tension between them, though. You say that the method of appointment remains as it is after this constitutional change. Several spokesmen have indicated this day that they are actually quite satisfied with the way things are now arranged. That doesn't indicate a strong need for change. At the same time, this proposal gives the legislator the power to revise that method of appointment, in conjunction with a broader discussion on the role of the mayor. The moment you open that door, of course, that discussion is going to take place. There's a tension there. Which way are you going as a minister? You are also in a position to propose legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u322	Questions have been asked about this too. I'll go into that, of course. I have just tried, in my introduction, to distinguish between the present initiative proposal, which is based on the deconstitutionalisation. This does not change the method of appointment as such, as it is enshrined in organic legislation. But it does indeed place the responsibility on the legislator and not on the constitutionalist. This means that the legislator can have these discussions. What I have just said is that I think it is very important in what context such a discussion would take place and what safeguards and also what care you should take in doing so. Since many specific questions have been asked about them, I will also answer the questions about the final picture in the section in which I deal with the guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u323	I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u324	Through the chairman, Mr. Kuiper, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u325	Mr. Chairman. I understand the desire to create as much clarity as possible now and to provide certainty. I thought Mrs Huijbregts asked a few very clear questions about that. Before I go through the various issues, I therefore think it would be useful for me to deal briefly with them before I answer the other questions. In fact, I can assure her that there are no plans to change the headship. I hope that was made clear just now from my introduction. It also has a strong background in terms of content. The head of the board is actually the expression of a central principle in the system as we have it. The Council was elected on the basis of proportional representation and in that respect is the expression of popular will. As a democrat, I would almost say, I can assure Mrs Huijbregts that I naturally endorse this central principle in the Dutch state system and would not wish to interfere in any way with it. I would also like to say that this independent position of the mayor is very important to the cabinet. So if the future way of appointment had to be shaped differently, it would have to do justice to that independent position of the mayor. That does not mean, of course, that mayors could not have a party political background. They now have them with the current method of appointment, with an important role in the appointment of the city council. In practice, therefore, this party political profile does not undermine the independence of the mayor's operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u326	A major concern is expressed about the head of the Board and the head of the States. Now, when we look at the current situation, we see that this headship is actually no longer present in absolute terms. Part of it is also stripped or hollowed out - whatever you want to call it - by the dual system, where part of the power lies with the college. There's a lot of mandating and a lot of consultation going on outside the board. We have climate tables in the Netherlands and the like where consultation takes place and where decision-making takes place outside our democratic bodies. I don't hear anyone express their concern about that here. It is only about a possibly elected mayor and Commissioner, who would undermine the head of the council and States. How do you view this deterioration by factors other than the position of the mayor at a possible elected mayor's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u327	I find that interesting in itself. I have just heard other speakers argue that more powers have gone to municipalities. That's right. More powers have also gone to mayors. That's right, too. At the same time, of course, there are issues. I see this also in the agreements we have made, for example, in the intergovernmental programme with the co-governments on joint ambitions. There are issues that are so big that no one can actually solve them alone. For example, we are talking about how we deal with climate change. It could also be about other issues, of which we say: there are issues here in The Hague, which we have here as legislators. There are issues on which we must agree in cooperation with each other. There may be financial and legal aspects. It is a rather complex interplay, but this does not affect the Board's headship and the powers it has under it. So I do see the development that you are describing, but I do not see any tension with the head of the board on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u328	Obviously, Mr. Chairman. I do see this tension in a certain development, through the IBP, the inter-administrative programme, and through mandating to lectures, with the Council and the States often giving up their framework role. If there is another appointed mayor, you could see it in a broader context of developments that are already taking place. It is now being said very strongly that this will be at the expense of the head of the council, but I say this to a number of colleagues here that it is already largely being stripped of. I hope you'll be as concerned about that as you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u329	I am going to go into a little more detail about the questions that have been asked about the head of the council, but that is and remains anchored. The mayor's independent position is thus shaped by many elements in our constitutional system, such as the mandate that the mayor has, the powers in relation to the aldermen and the council and the term of office, to name but a few elements. All these elements will have to be considered in their respective contexts in the event of any future change in such a way that the overall system provides guarantees for an independent, honest and reliable mayor. Those mayors can therefore, as they do now, be entrusted with powers without any difficulty in the field of the monitoring of the purity of procedures, the monitoring of integrity and the maintenance of public order and security. I say this in response to questions put by Mrs Huijbregts. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Huijbregts, Mrs Vlietstra and others have asked questions about usefulness and necessity. Is there sufficient legal or social need for this constitutional change? The appointment of the mayor and the Commissioner has been the subject of debate for many years. It's just been said. Parliamentary history has been repeated by many today. I think you can conclude from this that there is broad support in itself for the view that this method of appointment is not of constitutional order. Precisely because there are no plans at the moment to change the way in which they are appointed, I think that you can make the consideration of whether or not it is of a constitutional order purer than if there were. The amendment of the Constitution on this point, by its nature, is not at all aimed at a substantive change in the way in which it is appointed, but rather at giving the legislator that power which is due to him on the basis of the vision behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u330	The Minister is, of course, quite right, but it is a little strange that it suddenly falls out of the sky after 170 years and that we are now discussing the image afterwards, what to do. You are also talking about a number of values that you would like to attach to the method of appointment and to the new mayor. Surely it cannot be that we have no plan at all now or that the initiator, who is no longer speaking, had no plan at all? It really doesn't want to be said now: we change it and we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u331	I think the initiator has just answered that question. I have actually turned it around, purely from the purity of the legal discussion that is taking place on this issue. The question whether the method of appointment is constitutional in nature or not can be answered without mixing it with a discussion on possible proposals for a different method of appointment. That is, I think, constitutionally pure and also pure for us. Of course, you may have questions, including in the political sense, about what that would look like and whether there are any intentions. What it might look like has my predecessor laid down in a note. It has just been quoted by Mr Jetten. A number of variants are outlined. It sets out exactly what constitutional change could lead to what change. The amendment of the Constitution that is now before us somewhat restricts these variants. For me, the question is not what is the next step. I don't have that on camera. I would, however, like to point this out, as I have just outlined, for the debate that would then have to be held. I do think that you can make the weighing up of the destitutionalisation, and even make it purer, if the plans are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u332	I just wanted to get back to the Minister's comment. I hope I understood her correctly. The fact that it has been discussed for 170 years would indicate that there is already sufficient support for deconstitutionalisation. I do not follow that quite honestly, because in all the discussions that have taken place there has always been a choice to leave the appointment in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u333	Yeah, but for different reasons. I didn't necessarily go back 170 years. I did in my introduction when I mentioned Thorbecke. But we don't even have to go back that far to see the debates on this subject. I think that there have been a lot of discussions each time and there may not have been consensus, but it was not necessarily about deconstitutionalisation or whether the method of appointment is constitutional order. Those were more political questions about what would be the most desirable method of appointment. The fact that divorce and conduct a pure discussion about whether it is constitutional or not, regardless of wishes and thoughts that there may be about a different method of appointment, seems to rely on acceptance and understanding in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u334	Mrs. Vlietstra, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u335	My final comment. Do I have to understand that the Minister thinks that we are now having an apolitical discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u336	No, this is a political body, but it is a political body with a great deal of interest in the quality of legislation and also in the pure question of the constitutional nature of the issue before us. I think it has an assignment in it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u337	I would also think that 170 years of discussion, or perhaps a little bit shorter, will strengthen the position, because apparently it has never led to de-constitutionalisation. My question is this. The Minister is right to point out that it is not weird at all to argue with each other and raise the question and to ask whether the constitutional position is necessary or not. But a choice is now being made to get it out of the Constitution, without that discussion being finished. How does the Minister feel about that? That's what I'm asking the next question. Does the Minister know any other constitutional changes that were made without knowing where we were going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u338	I am listening to another approach to Mr Schalk. That's okay, of course. That's very legitimate even. That is a political conviction. He asked in his first term whether there should be no supporting reasoning for the amendment of the Constitution. Now I'm going back 170 years. The discussion is not whether there is an urgent need or a supporting motivation. It is a purely question of whether this actually belongs in the Constitution or not. If I fly him like that, if I may use that word, and do so differently than Mr Schalk, then I shall come to the answer no. I don't have that conviction. There's actually no such reason. It is independent of any change in the method of appointment. This proposal does not take that into account either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u339	Mr Schalk, second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u340	Of course you can fly it. That's gonna cost a lot of CO. It is fine to have a pure discussion, but the follow-up step that is being taken is, in my humble opinion, really too early. If you're having the discussion, you can come to the conclusion that Thorbecke might have done it differently. But it's not like that. So let's figure out how to do it now. Then you take a step. That's my approach route. I am sure the Minister would have understood that. Maybe she wants to reflect on it again after all. My follow-up question was whether she knew other examples where things were taken out of the Constitution without knowing what we wanted with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u341	I cannot answer that last question, because I do not agree with Mr Schalk that something is being taken out of the Constitution without thinking about what will happen. The own-initiative proposal provides for a replacement of the current Article. That refers to the legislator. The initiative proposal is therefore well aware of its focus. It therefore merely considers whether the constitutional anchoring of the method of appointment as such is necessary. The initiators, the House of Representatives and the government say that this is not the case. Mr Schalk and I continue to have a difference of opinion in this respect. That's why I just said that you can't actually compare it to another constitutional change, which happened, for example, because there were all kinds of social developments that you wanted to anchor in the Constitution. No, now you're actually trying to fix something that you're saying is a better and purer interpretation of how we look at our legislator's job. That is not the job of the legislator now because of the article in the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u342	Finally, Mr. Schalk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u343	But it is about the Constitution. The last change was in 2006, I believe. In other words, it's about something. We can't just put that away by saying that we have a different approach route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u344	No, but I'm not. I would therefore like to say to Mr Schalk that I began my introduction by saying that no one went ice over one night, not the initiators, not the Lower House, not the Upper Chamber, nor the Government. This is careful. All steps have been taken, not only in the parliamentary debate, but also by conducting investigations, by organising discussions on this issue, by involving other insights into this issue. It is, I think, precisely the result of a carefully conducted parliamentary process involving other actors. That leads to this moment. It is not a development that suddenly falls out of the sky. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered some of Mr Schalk's questions, because many of his questions were already in that order of things. I think I have just given him a detailed answer as to why the order of business is the right order in the eyes of the cabinet, and that the adoption of this initiative proposal and therefore this constitutional change means that the legislator, the ordinary legislator, is then called upon to follow up on the possibility that this would offer. This proposal, and I would like to emphasise this once again, does not prejudge anything and only leaves that power to the legislator. Mr. Chairman. Then perhaps a number of questions concerning the final picture, the guarantees that have been asked for it. Mr Rombouts in particular raised a number of pressing questions about this in his term. Of course, he can also boast of a long experience as mayor. This also applies to other countries of the Upper Chamber. Perhaps it would be good to make a few more general comments before I go into the specific questions. We were just talking about the head of the council. That's not up for discussion. As far as the cabinet is concerned, this is also the starting point for the establishment of the municipal administration, i.e. the position, the tasks, the responsibilities and the powers of the council, the college and the mayor. I also see what has just been said by Rombouts and others: the dominant value of the mayor above the parties. That is a mayor who is neutral, who can be a neutral arbitrator, who can be binding as a director and who is indeed independent. This should remain the starting point, even in the case of possible future changes. That was also concluded by my predecessor in his review of November 2016. Because that position largely legitimizes the independent exercise of powers in the areas of public order, security and duty of care for administrative integrity. I therefore agree with Mr Rombouts that the stability and continuity of our public administration are of great value and that the mayor plays an important role in this. He does so as chairman of the board, as chairman of the college, but that is mainly due to the position of the mayor, I think, and not necessarily linked to the way in which he was appointed. With the normal functioning of the head of the council, it is also ensured for the future that the council has the final say even with a possibly elected mayor in the appointment and dismissal of aldermen and that there is no stalemate between the council and the elected mayor. For the Constitution does not provide for the possibility that an elected mayor, if any, could dissolve the council. So the directly elected representative of the people has the final say on municipal policy. Mr Rombouts also asked how the Minister would see the special status of mayor and commissioner in the event of these officials being elected. Well, again, it is not the issue, but if there were in the future a directly elected mayor or commissioner of the King's Party that seems unlikely to me, then of course we should also look at the position, tasks and powers. So just a change in the method of appointment does not simply lead to a different position, and in every system there will have to be attention to that position, to the checks-and-balances and to how you organize them. Regardless of the method of appointment, the mayor must be able to maintain public order and security. I think it is very important, even in this debate, that we can establish this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u345	May I ask the Minister for clarification? The initiator said in a short, two-letter word that he is not after a presidential type mayor in the future. Does that also apply to you personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u346	Yeah, that goes for me personally, too, but that might be less relevant. Maybe it's a good thing I said that. Suppose in future we are all no longer in our different positions here and in that future the introduction of a presidential type mayor would be considered. The Constitution will then have to be amended. This constitutional change doesn't allow a presidential mayor either. It is not my ambition, but it cannot be based on the Constitution. This really requires a different constitutional change and it affects a number of fundamentals, of which Mr Rombouts, but also I, have just argued that we consider them to be very important in the position that the mayor has in our public administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u347	In absolute terms, of course, we should never want to speak here, because who can guarantee what will happen in 50 years' time? Which one of us is still there? The initiator has a chance. So I do not want to speak in absolute terms either, but on your part, on the part of this government, we do not have to expect any initiatives towards that heavy presidential mayorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u348	That's right. It is true what Mr Rombouts says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u350	Mr. Chairman. Let's see, 'cause then I answered that question. The final picture. That word fell a number of times. Mrs Huijbregts mentioned that, I thought Mr Kuiper and others. First of all, I would like to go back to my original reasoning, which Mr Schalk and I have just spoken about, and now a final idea of substance would mean that we, as a constitutionalist, would actually take an advance on the powers that the organic legislator will have in the future. In my reasoning, this completely interferes with the idea of a de-constitutionalisation of the method of appointment. What has happened, also on the initiative of Mrs Huijbregts, is that my predecessor from the Minister of Foreign Affairs has directed the discussion on the way in which and position. As I said earlier, that has happened very widely. There's been extensive consultation. Many investigations have taken place and this has led to a good picture of the office. This has also made it clear what values we all consider important. Today, too, that is clear. I see that very broad everyone who stresses independence and that impartial position of the mayor. I see this as something that we are now saying: that is really a precondition for any proposals that the legislator could discuss at any time. I believe that we can trust that the organic legislator will assume its responsibilities in that case and will ensure consistent and coherent legislation in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u351	Nor did I ask whether the Minister or the initiator would like to put a ready-made proposal on the table this evening. I've asked how they think they're gonna handle that. The Minister has already been quite specific when it comes to a number of conditions, including normal values attached to the office. I also hear her now saying that they should be legally anchored. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u352	I said two things. I have said that, I think, we should not get ahead of each other of what the legislator could then do. But I think we can now see that there are a number of preconditions that should be anchored in that process. So I don't think it's the issue right now. That should be discussed when there are proposals. That is why, of course, it is important for us here today to say: we are setting out these conditions here, and that is very much about the independence and the impartial position of the mayor. If it is anchored, it is up to the legislator in a proposal to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u353	Just a little longer. I fully understand what the Minister is saying, but just for the record. Does she mean to say: I can't say anything now, but tomorrow I will?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u354	Come up with a proposal tomorrow? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u355	Then I'm gonna tell them what it's supposed to mean and how we're gonna do it. I've asked you if all the reports and what you're going to do with them make you staple. And tomorrow you can tell me what you're gonna do. Or next week, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u356	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet now has no intention of amending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u357	Processional.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u358	I would say, procedurally, that there is a great deal of material, but I have also said that it is important first of all to complete this issue until the end. In that case, any de-constitutionalisation could assume the responsibility of the legislator to consider the question of the method of appointment. I then see it as my task to ensure consistent and coherent legislation. Of course, the cabinet can play a role in this. But it is not that tomorrow or next week, on the basis of all these reports with that staple, I want to come through with panacea solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u359	But you're gonna take it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u360	It depends on how Mrs Huijbregts means. As I said, I have no intention of coming up with a proposal in this direction. I think it is very important that there is a great deal of material now and that we are putting together a number of important principles here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u361	But no intention to propose is also a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u362	To keep it pure: the constitutionalist can now decide to deconstitutionalise, so to remove the method of appointment from the Constitution. This opens up the way for the legislator, which we are not really today, because we are now constitutionalists to form a view on this. But there is no intention on the part of the cabinet to come forward with proposals after next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u363	Mrs. Huijbregts, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u364	The cabinet continues the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u365	In fact, it is a fact that the current situation is continued, even after the constitutionalisation, because the method of appointment of the mayor is laid down in the Municipal Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u366	This is clear. You say that the cabinet does not now come up with legislation on this issue. I think that's clear. It was about us being able to talk together, Chamber and Minister, about the framework conditions that future legislation will have to comply with. You have said something about this: we can see that together. I find that very interesting. In what form could that be possible? Perhaps you should say a little more about what exactly the list of conditions is for you. We might also be able to record that in one way or another. Then that is a result of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u367	It is, I think, very much about the Chamber or that is being recorded. It has been said and thus part of the debate and thus part of the legal history. I am hearing very widely here that we value the role of the mayor in our public administration. Two words have always fallen. It seems to me... Once again, I must of course leave it to your Chamber to what extent you wish to record it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u368	That's right. You have indicated that there is a certain consensus, here too, on a vision of the future, but formulated in terms of framework conditions. That's correct. Those two words are "independence" and "impartiality," but there are perhaps a few things we can mention with each other that are part of that consensus. You indicated yourself: I do not want to paint a final picture, but I do have a vision. So you yourself have a contribution to make. I'm trying to see if we can get together and determine together what these preconditions are. Well, at least that gives us some clues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u369	Indeed, independence and impartiality, and more has been said about the important role that we assign to mayors. As Minister of State, I feel responsible for that role of mayors in the public administration. So even if I say that the cabinet has no intention of amending legislation next week, the cabinet can, of course, articulate what I think that role is, also on the basis of the material produced by my predecessor and which has emerged from this whole process of initiative. That would be quite conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u370	The final remark, Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u371	I'd really appreciate that coming out tonight. Perhaps that can be explained in a letter or something. It seems really valuable to me when that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u372	As far as I am concerned, there is still a bit to be done in this discussion. I imagine there's a need for a list of conditions. We hear that, too. I myself have mentioned the integrity issues where we want to increase the number of handles for the mayor. As far as my group is concerned, we will reduce the administrative burden in order not to overburden the mayor's position. If we come to a list of these principles this evening, it will be somewhat unsatisfactory if nothing happens from the cabinet after that. Apart from the method of appointment, there are enough matters on the mayor's table to strengthen his position in local government and make them manageable, which could also ask a view of the cabinet on how to deal with them; if it is not tomorrow's content, then it is in a process of sharing the steps to that end with the Chambers. If that sticks around a little bit, I'd be sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u373	I wouldn't like to conclude at all that something is sticking. On the contrary, I find it valuable this afternoon and evening that there seems to be consensus on a number of principles that everyone says, regardless of the political desires about changing the method of appointment: it would be nice if we could describe them with each other. I have just expressed my willingness to do so. We're doing this process carefully, one step at a time. We must also take account of the fact that it is now a question of de-constitutionalisation, i.e. a constitutional change. That opens the way to a view for the legislator, in our other role I would almost say. I can, of course, contribute to this as Minister of State, precisely by laying down in a note certain principles and certain tasks, powers and values in the mayor's office. This can then contribute towards other wishes or plans that might be there from the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u374	One more step. If we set beautiful principles and then do nothing, so they are only on paper, then we have not changed reality. The specific question is: if we share these principles and you write it down again nicely, will that lead to action by this cabinet in the direction of strengthening a number of places that we believe would need to be strengthened? Then I am not talking about the destitutionalisation. That's clear, but what are we gonna do next? Are we going to take action if we have these principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u375	It was also asked: who are "we" in this context? I would almost like to put that back to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u376	That is always the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u377	Yes, the legislator is us together. That is not just a matter for the cabinet. I am very aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u378	Finally, Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u379	We're all the legislators. We in the First Chamber do not have the right of initiative. The cabinet is usually a move to do things. The question remains: if we can reach such a consensus or consensus, then the cabinet will... "obligatory" is too big a word, but does the cabinet think that action should actually be taken in addition to writing things down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u380	No. I have just said and I believe that the Prime Minister also said this last week: there is currently no intention from the cabinet to change the law. I also said, one step at a time. Here we are talking about de-constitutionalisation. A good result of the debate is a degree of consensus on the conditions I have just formulated and, as I have heard many of you say, on the values that we assign to the office. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think it is logical and in the direction of the mayors and domes who have just been mentioned and who are worried about writing that down. This can also play a role later on if there are proposals for a change in the method of appointment, but these proposals are not at present available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u381	I'm listening and frankly I'm a little disappointed at what the Minister says. My expectation was that following the decision on the deconstitutionalisation based on all the preparatory work that has been done, the cabinet would now take the next steps. I am now listening to the Minister say that she does not really intend to do so and that all those fine reports that are there with that staple going back into the drawer. You mention all these values and conditions. With respect, those aren't new things. I think that for years we have felt that things like impartiality, independence and standing above the parties are very important values of mayorship. I don't have much of a question. But from what I have heard, I find that I have a different expectation and that I am a little disappointed by the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u382	Of course, I'm sorry about that. I'm coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u383	That seems to me to be a second-term comment. I am also looking at the Members, because I think the Minister wants to go further in her speech. A few brief interruptions, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u384	The Minister has made it perfectly clear that the government has no intentions, but I would like to ask for clarification in the debate: is it not true that every Member of Parliament can come forward with a legislative proposal tomorrow or next Wednesday? What does the government do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u385	The legislator in the Lower House is free to come up with own-initiative legislation. However, I am confident that the initiator, but also that there will be room for a careful debate on these principles when dealing with the initiative. And I really see it as my job to do that, should that happen. That is perhaps reassuring, even for Mrs Vlietstra. But I don't have any information that that would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u386	I suggest that the Minister continue her speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u387	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I can now skip some of the questions I have in front of me. I come to a question from Mr Engels, who actually sees the same point that the interruption was just about. I am pleased to repeat his question here. He asked whether I would like to include a number of essential structural principles and firm values in the subsequent debate. Mr Engels can see from the previous debate that this is indeed the case. In his contribution he mentioned a number of principles: local autonomy, the head of the board and collegial administration. He also mentioned the independence and impartiality of the mayor, and the powers of public order and security. And I think that we have just established that these are the very principles which have actually resulted in this process and which I would indeed like to involve in a possible follow-up. So I very much support what Mr Engels has just asked. Mr Rombouts said that the appointed mayor is seen as the mayor of all citizens. And he asked what I think that would be like if the mayor were elected by the majority of the population, or elected by the city council. In other words: in these cases, is the mayor still there for all citizens of his or her city? I actually think that, with that broad agreement on the mayor's independent and impartial position, we should guarantee those values in the order. But that is actually about the debate we have just had. Furthermore, I think that, regardless of the manner of appointment, the position of the mayor implies that he or she will always want to develop into the mayor for all the inhabitants of his or her congregation. That is actually also a question of role-conception, so apart from the way in which they are appointed. It is a development which, by the nature of the office, will in fact pursue any mayor. I don't see it in the way you're appointed. Mr Schalk asked whether "behind the parties" also means that a mayor always works without burden and backspoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u388	Before you go any further, Mr Rombouts would like to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u389	My question concerns the previous point, Mr President. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask the following question. I respect all the Minister's previous answers, but I think she went a little too light about this. For a mayor who gets 51% of the votes behind him in an election battle can of course develop into a mayor of all. That is indeed a matter of your personal skills and of your will to be. But he can also be experienced by citizens as: he is not ours. And that could just be 49% of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u390	I say again: I do not want to anticipate this at all. And I also said: I have no intentions in that direction. But look at the current mayors, who often have a party political color. Some also say: you see, it's a party cartel and it's all cooked up in back rooms. That's not true, but that's sometimes the image that can be created. The mayors who have been appointed in this way are also very quick to escape that image, insofar as they are already suffering from it. They are also very quickly above the parties. And people forget what party membership they have and what alleged party cartel situation they have emerged from. The opposite would therefore, in my view, also apply in a situation with a form of election of a mayor, again, because the office means that the mayor simply has that role. He's here for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u391	The Minister and the initiator have said things tonight that appeal very much to me about those values that we need to maintain, in any electoral mode. With that eight points of possible consequences of a change in the system, in particular of changes in the direction of an elected mayor, I actually wanted to warn about effects. And one of those effects could be that the mayor is no longer seen as a mayor of all citizens. And that he or she may not always want to behave like it. 'Cause in the Netherlands, it's only four years, isn't it? In the first year, of course, there is the formation and the getting going, and in the last year we are already looking at the elections. And then you become a little more the mayor of a particular party than the mayor of all citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u392	Yes, but Mr Rombouts is now running with a few steps about what exactly that would look like, what the term of office would be etcetera. Indeed, a parliamentary term after an election has a beginning and an end. This also applies to the current method of appointment. But Mr Rombouts, as a former mayor, also knows that you, as mayor, sometimes have discussions with your counsel. At least, I suppose he's had some discussions with his counsel. And I suppose there were some majorities who supported the mayor, with minorities having different views. That too does not stand in the way of a mayor who is there for all residents. Mayors also have to make choices in the end. I would love it if mayors would always succeed in making choices supported by all citizens. So even that does not stand in the way of the mayor's position in the role of a citizen's father. The same applies to his or her responsibilities for safety, which people simply consider very important. This does not prevent the mayor himself from being the model of integrity, precisely in order to be able to speak with authority about integrity. Just in that look, he should be there for everyone. I was referring to Mr Schalk's comment, which said that a mayor should be able to function without any backsliding. The interesting thing is that this is precisely a term that we use when it comes to elected representatives. They must indeed function without burden and backspoke. Nevertheless, we think that we are in complete agreement: the mayor must stand above the parties, be united, have authority to exercise administrative integrity and his powers alone. Mr. Chairman. Mr Lintmeijer's questions were concerned with the integrity and duties of the mayor. Mr Kuiper also asked a few questions about this, in particular about undermining. Mr Lintmeijer asked: is it not true that there may be a need for additional instruments in terms of integrity? That was, I thought, the essence of his question. The administrative duty of care of the mayor to promote the integrity of the municipality is quite recent, of 2016. In my letter of March 2018, I underlined its importance and announced that we are looking together for further reinforcement and support of that role of the mayor. Research is also taking place, for example on the role that a local or regional integrity committee could play. The CdK can advise and mediate as a wealthy body if there are municipal integrity problems. So I admit this is a fairly new role. I also recognise that more is actually needed. The process of getting there is now in progress. On the role concept and personal authority when it comes to issues of integrity, I think I have already said a few things. Issues surrounding undermining are important and topical. I agree with Mr Kuiper that the mayor may indeed need support, including from other levels of government. In the Lower House I promised to reflect on that role of the mayors, because now and then we see that mayors can get involved. Information has been requested from the Council of State, including on tackling undermining, including the role of mayors. So I agree with the subject and its importance. I do not see it directly in relation to the method of appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u393	There's an important connection to the Home Office. That external connection, which I call "external ID," is of course very important to a mayor, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u394	Absolutely, yeah. I agree. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of more specific questions about the head of the board, although I think we have already dealt with this in the case of most of the interruptions. Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Rombouts drew attention to this. As I said, the present proposal has no impact on the head of the board. The head of the council determines the relations within the municipal administration and implies that the final responsibility lies with the directly elected parliament. Furthermore, the Constitution is based on the collegiate form of government, which limits the legislator's discretion to change the mayor's position in relation to council and college. The cabinet really attaches importance to the head of the council. We therefore have no intention of amending it. Mrs Huijbregts asked a question to which the initiator already referred, about the relationship between Article 125 and Article 131. She asked whether they balance each other in a sense. I don't think so. The main body of the board takes shape in the powers of the board and is in fact independent of the constitutional anchoring of the method of appointment. In addition, the Constitution does not confer any tasks or powers on the mayor at all. That is why I would like to say that there is no balance between the provisions. Mrs Vlietstra said that a directly elected mayor could be at odds with Rule 125. We have just found that a presidential model requires further constitutional changes. That's not the point. In my view, tension would only arise if the elected mayor had an equivalent position. That's only in the Presidential Mayor's model. No one wants that, and it cannot be done on the basis of the current Constitution. For example, not having the power of interim council disbandment does not make such a model possible at all, but I do not think it is desirable either. I have a few more questions about the CdK, and I will finally have some specific questions, and I will pass by the spokesmen. Mr Rombouts asked about the method of appointment of the CdK in relation to the tasks of the state. I also see that in recent years the importance of the Commissioner of the King has increased as a rich body. This applies in the areas of administrative relations, administrative integrity and tackling major societal challenges. However, with regard to the constitutional anchoring of the method of appointment, there is not necessarily a reason to distinguish between the two posts. That does not mean that we do not see that distinction, of course I can see that. I think there are great differences that we should also acknowledge. These are differences between the office and between the levels of government they form part of. Following the adoption of this legislative proposal, it is, of course, up to the legislator to weigh these differences too, if changes in the way of appointment were to be considered. But today, everything shows that it focuses on the mayor's manner of appointment. I do not see any mood at all, nor do I see any need for a review of the way in which the Commissioner of the King is appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u395	I hear the Minister say that the administrative role and task of the Commissioner has increased in recent years, especially when it comes to the tasks of the state. How does the Minister see this in relation to the head of the States? Because that's gonna be a little tricky in part. The States can, in principle, control the Commissioner, except for his national tasks. Of this he can always say: I am a ruler, you cannot appeal to me. On the other hand, from the point of view of national politics, there is little insight into what a Commissioner does in the province. So how do you see the relationship between that head of state and the extension of the Commissioner's powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u396	Strictly speaking, it is not a question of extending powers, but of making greater use of the rule of law. There is therefore a clear view from The Hague. I see this development and I think it is an important development. You have to make that distinction, too. The Commissioner who carries out tasks under the rule of law does so in consultation with the Empire. The other tasks are simply tasks for which the Provincial States exercise control. By the way, every Commissioner, in relation to Provincial States, is, of course, responsible for everything he does. But it is precisely that government that is very special; it also distinguishes the Commissioner from the mayors. In my view, it is an important task, which the Commissioners carry out very seriously and conscientiously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u397	Mr Van Hattem, additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u398	Thanks for the answer. The point is that there can be a sliding scale, a grey area where the limits of what is the Commissioner's national task cease and what is going to be mixed with provincial policy, especially in terms of integrity, but also in terms of the implementation of what we have seen in the past few years in the housing of asylum seekers. At some point lectures from GS also took part, as did the States. How does the Minister see an opportunity to keep that role as pure as possible, partly in view of that head of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u399	I do not really see the problem Mr Van Hattem is raising. It is clear to me and to the Commissioners, and I also believe that it is clear to Provincial States what tasks the Commissioners carry out by virtue of their national sovereignty and which they do not. Mr Van Hattem sketches a grey area in his eyes which I do not think there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u400	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u401	I asked you differently, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u402	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u403	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the specific questions that I could not place in one of the topics discussed above. Mr Van Hattem had made a number of comments on the current background, especially in the political sense, of mayors and their duties. He said: they sometimes have substantive portfolios, they travel, wondering if the current mayors are so binding. I would like to make a few comments on this. Because Mr Van Hattem knows the procedure: anyone who fits the profile and is qualified can apply. This applies regardless of the political preference of people. So PVVs can also apply for a mayorship. The mayor is a one-man office, but indeed sometimes needs to be replaced. That could be the deputy mayor, that could be an alderman, that usually works fine. So there is nothing in the current legislation that stands in the way of that. Finally, I have just outlined that the mayors are very much aware of this binding role for all the people in their congregation. I also see the ability to connect very often in the profile sketches drawn up in the search for new mayors. Mrs Huijbregts asked a question that I have already answered in response to another question from earlier. It was about all the reports that are already there. I think we have already talked about this to a sufficient extent. Mr Lintmeijer asked how I see the balance between the administrative measures and instruments and the administrative constraints. He cited the mayor of Amsterdam, who had spoken about this. I get that. On a case-by-case basis, it is necessary to consider which administrative body is to be entrusted with a task or power. So I think it is an important issue. The Council of State is also in the process of providing information on this subject. I promised in the House of Representatives that I would reflect on that, so I think it is a good thing that I include Mr Lintmeijer's comment. I referred to it just now when I replied to Mr Kuiper about the undermining and the need to support the mayor well on that point. So this has the attention, I would say to Mr Lintmeijer. The same goes for the mayor as a crime fighter. It can indeed be related to the extension of the responsibilities, tasks and powers of the mayor. Of course, that has come for a reason. This is also an answer to or does justice to the complexity and intertwinedness of all kinds of social issues. That's where people often see the mayor as a crimefighter. Strictly speaking, he's not. At least, he can't carry out criminal duties himself. He is, of course, in the triangle with police and prosecutors; that cooperation is also very important. But I am well aware, and mayors realize that, especially those who have also experienced the great adverse effects of this, these powers also have their side to the problems and threats involved. So we're working hard on that. Mr Nagel wanted an overview of the number of mayors of CDA, PvdA and VVD. I thought the answer to that question was just given in Mrs Van Leeuwen's maiden speech. I repeat it here, but I suspect I have the same numbers as them. Let me put it right: There are 100 mayors in the Netherlands who are also members of the CDA, 59 of the Labour Party and 91 of the VVD. I make one correction to Mrs Van Leeuwen's maiden speech: there is not just one mayor without party colour. There are a few more, but that number does not yet go in the direction of the numbers of the three parties I outlined. We keep it on a handful, but the number is growing. Mr Schalk asked if I could tell him whether the nomination of the Committee on Trust is always followed by mayor appointments. The Council makes a two-fold recommendation on the basis of the opinion of the Trust Committee, and the Minister can only deviate from it for serious reasons, for example if a candidate is not through screening. Fortunately, this does not occur in practice. This is, of course, due to the professional way in which many trust committees have acted, and certainly also to the role of the King's Commissioners and the pre-selection. As a result, I, as well as my predecessors, have never had to reject recommendations. Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to deal with the questions that haven't really been discussed yet. I will end my first term with the answer to a question from Mr Kuiper. He referred to Article 124, which leaves regulation and administration to the city council. He asked how it can be guaranteed that not every municipality will go its own way. Firstly, because the proposal instructs the legislator to determine the method of appointment. This is now also the case in the municipal law. That would also apply to a new method of appointment. It is therefore a matter for the legislator to ensure that unity. The terms'regulation and administration', as Mr Kuiper used, relate to the household of the municipality. In other words: autonomy, freedom to choose policy objectives. I think that should be seen separately from the design of the administrative establishment that should be chosen by the legislator. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions sufficiently, otherwise I will undoubtedly be asked to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u404	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I would also like to inform you that Mrs Huijbregts and Mr Rombouts have asked to be allowed to switch seats on the list of speakers. I didn't think there was any objection to that. This means that I will now be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Hattem in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief in second term. There has just been a lot of switching in the interruptions. I shall begin with the point just made by the Minister concerning the binding nature of the current mayors. As I said in the first term, I do not think that this binding nature is always present. You might as well be wondering if you have to. Many speakers in this Chamber say that the mayor should always be there for everyone, but the practice is that the mayor is partly a law enforcement officer and therefore has a role to play in order to act. That is also a competence that is necessary and called for. It should therefore be more about the position of mayor without respect for himself than about a mayor who is always there for everyone. It almost sounds like an all-man friend when I hear some of the speakers here. That seems to me to be a bit unrealistic. You shouldn't want to connect with everything and everyone. If jihadists are present in a city, or other developments are taking place that undermine our society, then you should not want to connect too much with them, but then you should also dare to act against them. Having said that, we must conclude with regard to this bill that it is important that we still have to take this constitutional bump. This proposal is a necessary step to improve our Constitution, to bring it to the level Thorbecke envisaged 170 years ago in his trial of the Constitution. The PVV will therefore certainly support this proposal. We hope that there will be a proposal for an elected mayor and for an elected commissioner of the King as soon as possible from the other side of the House of Representatives. But that is up to the House of Representatives and not us, so I wish the Minister and the initiator every success in the follow-up to this bill. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u406	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiator and the Minister for their comprehensive and adequate response. I also owed Mrs Van Leeuwen a congratulation for her maiden speech. I would like to repeat the main points for my group in this debate. Firstly, there is the observation that the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner is not of a constitutional order. In other words, there is no constitutional obligation to include this issue in the Constitution. That means that those who are committed to maintaining constitutionalisation have, in my view, a political motive for this. Of course you can, but that's the way we have to say it. My second comment concerns the periodicity of deconstitutionalisation and possible discussions on the maintenance of the same method of appointment. We have tried to point out that the process of de-constitutionalisation, and then a debate on whether and, if so, how to change the way in which we are appointed by law, is essential for an open discussion. That has also been shown today. For I have had to observe that there is a political motive behind the resistance to this periodicity. That may be so, but that is usually based on a firm, political preference or a possible administrative interest to at least maintain the existing situation. That is not what the Constitution is for. The Constitution is not intended as a political means of fighting to maintain certain political preferences. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, unlike some other spokesmen, I have always avoided giving any insight into how the follow-up debate should be conducted. I will stick with that, but I feel in that sense that I would like to make some more system comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u408	Anyone who attaches importance to the maintenance of what I have called "the independence of the mayor's office', i.e. a position which guarantees the independence of the mayor, I believe, must realize a number of things, because that particular position of the mayor is not only dependent on the way in which he is appointed. It also depends on the tasks and powers and certainly on the relationship between the mayor and the other bodies within the municipal administration. So what is important in the future debate, if any, is to see whether we can strike a balance between that final responsibility of the city council, also known as 'headship', and the mandate of the mayor, however you shape it, in relation to the position of the mayor, because the mandate and the task package must also have a certain balance. That balance should be without prejudice to that final responsibility of the Board. My group agrees. I am pleased to note that there is no difference of opinion either with the initiator and with the Minister. The mayor must therefore continue to play his role as president and member of the college, but also as a principal administrative body. In order to ensure this, the structural principles I have mentioned are significant, because the possible new method of appointment will therefore also have to be made system-compliant. With this, a number of variants for a direct election of the mayor are also conceivable, I am speaking now in theory, looking at Minister Plasterk's note. This applies in particular to those variants for which no constitutional change is necessary. The next point is, therefore, to prevent a possible alternative method of appointment from leading or could lead to a conflict between two mandates which could then arise. The municipal council's mandate is the toughest mandate due to direct election and proportional representation, also known as "headship." This should not affect the relationship between mandates. In other words, in my view, the legislator will have to consider in an organic law, such as the Municipal Law, which already requires extra care, that the stability and continuity of local government are maintained. So I also mean that this must relate to the support of the mayor in society, in whatever way. Mr. Chairman. Allow me... No, it's "Mrs. Chairman." I didn't notice. I sometimes miss something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u409	Things are going really fast in here, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u410	Yeah, let me be honest. I always find myself fast, too, but this was too fast. Mr President, please allow me to do one small personal exhortation. I realized today that, after I entered the First Chamber in 2004, I had my first major debate on 23 March 2005. I do not know if that date will tell you anything, but then we had a debate on the same subject as now. I also realize that this is probably my last big debate today; I am also working very hard to delegate everything to my group colleagues. I thought that was a very special mark for myself. In that sense, it gets a little more cachet now that I have recently been here in the function of acting mayor of the world-famous commune of Loppersum. I can therefore assure you that I have no interest whatsoever here, because I have not been appointed by the Crown. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u411	Thank you. This was your last speech. It wasn't a maiden speech, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u412	An exit speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u413	Yeah, something like that. Very scary! Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u414	Madam President. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Van Leeuwen on her maiden speech. It was a great privilege to be interrupted by her before that maiden speech. I would also like to congratulate Mr Engels, now that the circle of Mr Engels' political life is complete. I hope that he will be here for the vote next week, and I hope that this will be especially true for his group. I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister very much for their reply. I had written in my prepared text: 'Unfortunately, I did not go into what comes after constitutionalisation', but you both surprised me with joy. You've responded extensively. You have also wanted to give an insight into the content of yourself, in your position, not personally, but as Minister, Excellency and Member of the Government about how you think it should proceed next. In any case, that is a good windfall and a boost for my group. I would just like to spell out the things that are most important to us and what you have both said. Neither the initiator nor the minister are looking for a heavy presidential modality. I say this once again for the Acts, and I would like that to be confirmed once again. It is also said here tonight that we are not going to have one night of ice cream and that we need to think carefully about it. The aspects I mentioned in the first term, which I will come back to in another form, have to be included in a future arrangement, the Minister said. Now "must" for a ruler is something in the third person: "that must be done." Who's gonna do that? Perhaps she would like to express herself again in the first person, without getting too personal, as I did for a moment. Madam President. On behalf of the CDA Group, may I say one more time that this debate is for us about more than about the appointment of mayors and Commissioners? For us, it is also about stable and strong local government in our country, the first government for citizens, entrusted with important tasks and competences. Within that city council, the mayor of the city has played an important role since the middle of the nineteenth century. That is widely acknowledged and appreciated. Having a mayor and the way we designated it have helped us to have that strong, stable government in the Netherlands compared to other countries, but also that the mayor and in the province the Commissioner play a binding role, both within the municipality towards the population and the city council as well as to other governments. In addition, the mayor and the Commissioner have great powers... No, now I'm blabbing. The mayor has great powers in the field of public order and security and the promotion of the integrity of the administration and is considered mayor of all citizens. These are the important aspects of mayorship, for which we want to fight in this debate in order to preserve it for the future. It has done me good that both the initiator and the minister have indicated that this is their responsibility and that they are in it as well. Since, of course, it is not yet clear whether, and if so, which method of appointment will be chosen in the near future and the future, my group would like to ask for a ruling from the Chamber on this matter. That is why, together with the groups of D66, the VVD and the Christian Union, we are tabling a motion asking the Chamber to state that, when developing a possible new method of appointment, it is desirable to opt for a form that reflects the principle that the council is at the head of the municipality and that it contains safeguards for a relatively independent position of the mayor, for a separate set of tasks and powers in the field of public order and security, for a task to promote the integrity of the municipal administration and for a position as superior to the parties, binding director of all citizens. The President shall: Mr Rombouts, Mr Engels, Mr Huijbregts-Schiedon, Mr Kuiper, Mr Backer and Mr De Vries-Leggeby proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands, in comparison with other countries, has a strong decentralised local government;]] [[Whereas the mayor's figure has contributed greatly to the continuity and stability of our local government over the years;]] [[Whereas the relative independence and impartiality of the mayor is generally highly appreciated by the population and municipal councils;]] [[Whereas the binding capacity of the mayor as "the mayor of all citizens" is also well recognised and recognised;]] [[Whereas the appointed mayor is entrusted with special powers in the field of public policy and security and the promotion of the integrity of the administration in the municipality;]] [[Considering that the initiative proposal for de-constitutionalisation deliberately chose to separate the removal from the Constitution of the current method of appointment from a possible legal choice for a new method of appointment;]] [[noting that at present it is not clear whether a different method of appointment will be adopted and, if so, for which method of appointment will be chosen;]] [[points out that, in developing a possible new method of appointment of mayors, it is desirable to opt for a form which reflects the principle that the council is the head of the municipal administration and which provides guarantees for a relatively independent position of the mayor, a self-contained set of tasks and powers in the field of public order and security, a task to promote the integrity of the municipal administration and a position as superior to the parties, binding director of all citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34716-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u415	I had some enlightening questions to Mr Rombouts about the operative part, the ruling at the end of the motion. I understand that an attempt is being made to create a kind of framework in which a possible new method of appointment of the mayor should be found. That is why my question is what this framework means. What's this gonna rule out? The direct election of the mayor by the voters, the indirect election of the mayor by the city council, the modification of the mayor's duties, the responsibility of the mayor over all tasks to the council or none of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u416	There is nothing excluded in this motion, but of course there are other rules in this country, which the Minister has also pointed out, which also encarry out the possible new, future way of appointment. In this motion we wanted to mention six elements which are now highly appreciated, very broad in the country, by citizens, but also by administrators working with the mayor. We consider it so important, not just for the mayorship, but for the decentralised administration, that we would like to retain it regardless of what new form is chosen by the legislator in the future. Let me be clear: the Constitution states that the city council is the head of the municipal administration. If you put a very heavy presidential type of mayor against that, it's gonna run counter to each other. However, this motion does not have to be ruled out, because the Constitution already states that this cannot be done in the Netherlands. Whether in the future is elected or appointed mayor, or for a Belgian system, with a electoral mandate with the mayor, who is also confirmed or appointed by the King, is all possible after acceptance of this motion. We, as initiators, did not want to take an advance on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u417	If it does not have the material meaning that it excludes a particular method of appointment, then it obviously has a more symbolic meaning. It is a kind of reassurance motion, for all those who think that the position of the mayor in another appointment might be weakened. They're being reassured now. In anticipation of a possible initiative law of the House of Representatives, you are already saying that there is no need to fear that, because the House of Lords, or another House of Lords, will be there at that time. For lying down. You're actually incriminating a danger that isn't there at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u418	I understand that it is difficult for the SP Group on this side and on the other side to come forward with reassuring motions and possibly add its voice to them. The motions you submit are usually of a different nature. Mr Kuiper and Mrs Huijbregts spoke about a letter from the Minister. There has been a lot of discussion in the Acts because of what the initiator said about the aspects contained in the operative part of the motion, but which were put into question by me in the debate, and which the Minister also mentioned. This motion can be a statement of this Chamber: think carefully who wants to take the initiative in a new way of appointment, whether it is government or parliament; in the First Chamber, if this motion is accepted, they will look at your bill with the glasses of this operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u419	I also looked through my glasses at this motion. I see that there are some open doors in it, so it is indeed more of an incantational formula, I have the impression. But still a specific question. I read in the motion that a binding director is advocated for all citizens. Does that also mean that there will be no more mayors who push against the will of the people into, for example, an azc?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u420	I understand that this is extremely high and I take the opportunity to say something I would have liked to do in the event of interruption. You have now twice this evening blew your own Commissioner and therefore mine for the fact that he was active as a wealthy body towards municipal authorities to help them in the housing of asylum seekers. I thought that was the Commissioner, because we can speak hypothetically, but of course you were talking about the Brabant.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's the kind of drivers we need in this country. In this country, we do not need a yes-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. We do not need a yes-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. We need drivers who sometimes want to make choices, who go for that and sometimes say to other drivers: come on, can we just step up a bit? I look not only at what a Commissioner has done, but also at what future mayors should be expected to do. This is absolutely not a reassuring spelling formula, but this is a guarantee for a substantively heavy mayorhood. In addition to recognizing the head of the city council, it is said that there must also be a staff member who has a relatively independent position. The word'relative' is there very consciously, because he must always, of course, answer everything to the city council, because that is the highest body; about his public order tasks, his integrity policy and his duties of the King's Commissioner, so to speak. He also has independent tasks in the field of public order and security which he has obtained from the law and which have only increased in recent years. In addition, he has a role in the field of integrity promotion. In addition, the mayor can do that self-employed, self-righteous movement, but ultimately also has to answer for it. For such a mayor, we choose this country, because we have noticed that it has gone well for 170 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u421	I did not specifically mention one Commissioner. This has played in many places in the country. I specifically mentioned mayors who should be binding in this way, because the motion also concerns mayors. When I listen to you, I do not hear a connecting mayor, but a mayor speaking from the perspective of a board elite who says that this must happen and that you must have the courage to press things against the will of the people. That is precisely what makes an elected mayor really necessary, as far as I am concerned; that citizens can decide for themselves who governs them and that never again things are pushed through against the will of the people; that it is said: there will be an azc in your village with 1,300 people, while the whole population says: we do not want this. On the contrary, imposing such far-reaching measures from above, by unelected drivers, is not a sign of linking up to what you are advocating, but that is not a binding driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u422	May I put a question to Mr Van Hattem? He spoke a moment ago about a crisis situation, which I am not aware of at the moment. I would like to present him there in front of the crisis with the Stint in Oss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u423	Can I stop for a second? I think we're getting very far away from the path of the subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u424	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u425	...destitutionalisation of the king's commissioner and the mayor. As interesting as this discussion may be, I would like to cut it off now. I hope you don't blame me, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u426	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u427	Then I won't go through with it, except with compliments to the mayor of Oss for the personal approach. I'd like to have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u428	Now ready, Mr. Van Hattem. I just don't want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u429	However, I would like to make it clear that, with this motion, we wanted to lay down conditions for a possible legal choice for a new method of appointment, a kind of lower limit, a baseline, a format or a framework, as Mr Köhler called it, fine. The CDA Group attaches great importance to such a statement of the Chamber in order to be able to take part in the renewal of the method of appointment and, by way of derogation from earlier voting, in 2005 and more recently in 2015, to give our vote to this initiative proposal. I understand that that raises questions. I'm only in favour of them inside and outside this Chamber, inside and outside my party. But in practice, there has been no appointment of mayors for a long time. Formally, perhaps, but in fact, mayors have been elected by the city council for decades. Furthermore, in recent years, our political landscape has changed, the support for removing the current method of appointment from the Constitution has increased, and also within my own party, the CDA, insights have changed. The best proof of this is that our Parliamentary Group has now voted in favour of constitutionalisation. All this is a reason for my group to want to participate now and to be able to work on de-constitutionalisation and to look forward with confidence to a possible renewal of the procedure for appointment. Fear is a bad counselor; sometimes courage is required. This is one of those moments. For me personally too, who has experienced the blessings of being appointed for more than 34 years in practice and who has been a fervent supporter of the current method of appointment for over 40 years. However, my group and I trust that future generations of legislators will examine everything and preserve the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u430	I actually wanted to go back to the motion, but I understand that Mr Rombouts is a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u431	Well, actually, I don't. I wanted to say the following sentence. In order to help the future legislators, we have drafted this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u432	I'd better move the motion now, too. The motion is therefore apparently intended to bind the First Chamber to a number of principles which are laid down in the hope of the proposers when I look at who they are. I would point out, however, that this Chamber does not have much longer to go and that next year there will be a new Chamber. It remains to be seen whether these statements are complied with. Apart from that, this is a rather non-binding motion. The considerations, I have no objection to that. They have passed through the debate several times. I shall leave the observations on Mr Rombouts' behalf for a moment, because I understand that the CDA Group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. But when I read that it is said that, in the development of a possible new method of appointment of mayors, it is desirable to opt for a form, I find that quite non-binding. It is not even the starting point, but it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u433	What would you have liked to write there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u434	I am trying to make it clear to myself how Mr Rombouts does not think we are talking about a non-binding motion. I have another question. When I read the recitals, does Mr Rombouts agree with me that the mayor elected by the Council is in fact the best fit with everything you say here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u435	If I have just replied to the SP Group that we, as authors of this motion, do not want to rule out any modality, then I must say that to you now. But you are not a stranger in Jerusalem, you know very well where we come from as CDA. I also know very well where your group stands, as you have said. We have heard from the Minister and the initiator that nothing is going to change for the time being; we need a legislative proposal first. We have also heard here that many groups are not really waiting for very wild proposals. That is perhaps the biggest surprise of this debate: there is so much agreement about the type of mayor that we might prefer. If this motion, with the help of the Labour Party's group, could receive a broad support in this Chamber, that the Minister and the initiator have spoken warm words about it and that that is very much in line with what they are now thinking about the future, and if we get a letter from the Minister confirming that they will work in that direction, as far as they are in power, then that might well be the preferred variant of the Labour Party's group. But I would like to admit that the motion is not what constitutional protection means. Constitutional protection is the strongest thing we have in this country and then a law. An amendment is, of course, also a fairly powerful means, but a motion is, of course, much weaker. That is why I am calling for broad support for the motion. And with the answers of the initiator and the minister, in combination with a letter, we will make together if you do not like that deconstitutionalisation, as I actually understood from the Labour Party, perhaps the best of two evils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u436	I do not anticipate how my group will assess this motion and how we will vote on it next week. I note, however, that I think it is an extremely non-binding motion. But apparently this is the maximum achievable in the proportions they are currently in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u437	You fall mostly on the word "wishful." Then what word would you like to see standing there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u438	I'm not so much about a word. What I am concerned about is that a very non-binding ruling from the Chamber is requested here: the Chamber is making a statement. This room won't be here in six months. My question to Mr Rombouts is how he thinks he can ensure a certain continuity in this respect in order to prevent that motion from disappearing. If you ask me about the word 'wishful', I find that quite non-binding. You should at least say that you are talking here about a number of principles which this Chamber considers extremely important to record in a debate that when we do not know we will follow any other method of appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u439	I heard what Mrs. Vlietstra said. I take that very seriously. I'm thinking about it, too. But if I have understood correctly, the Labour Party Group has spoken out here tonight in favour of being a mayor elected by the Council. What, then, is against a motion that states that the council is at the head of the municipal administration, that guarantees must be created for a relatively independent position of the mayor, with the tasks he now has in the field of public order, that he promotes integrity, is above the parties and is a binding director of all citizens? Isn't that the ideal type you described?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u440	Finally, Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u441	That's right. There's nothing against it, but it doesn't give any guarantees. In that sense, it is a symbolic statement of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u442	I, too, have taken a close look at the motion. I respect the way in which Mr Rombouts has indicated that his group is going to react: in a slightly different way than at the last reading. But I would also like to mention what has just been changed with Mrs Vlietstra. I liked the fact that Mr Rombouts himself actually indicated a nice order: the Constitution is the most beautiful and the most solid, apparently we have to get rid of it. The next thing is a law, and then a motion. If I understand correctly, Mr Rombouts now wants to state that if we get it out of the Constitution, we should not take too fast steps. Instead of "wishfully choosing" you actually want to say "that is laid down by law." My own position would be that something else has to happen first. You know that, but that's not the point. But we are all looking at whether we can best detach this movement around the Constitution to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u443	What is your question to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u444	My question is, therefore, whether you should not say: states that, in the development of possible new methods of appointment of mayors, it is laid down by law that this does justice to the principle that the council, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u445	That's what it says, Madam President. It's just the word "law" isn't there. But of course that is what is meant here, because the elaboration of a possible new method of appointment must be regulated in the Municipal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u446	Sure, we have just exchanged extensively that the word "wishfully" indicates a certain space. Everyone feels that. Mr Rombouts felt the same, because he asked Mrs Vlietstra if she had a better word. I'm making a suggestion. Make it so: it is regulated by law, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u447	Can I ask Mr Schalk: if it says here that it is desirable to do so, it is an effect which cannot be regulated anywhere else but in a legal provision? So that's just meant implicitly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u448	If that's what you're talking about, I'm not reading that yet, and I'm not reading it out. I'm suggesting you consider whether you should add it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u449	Mr. Rombouts, I understand you've finished your contribution by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u450	That I was indeed almost finished, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u451	Yes, because you're way past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u452	Madam President. To supplement: that can of course also be done in a third period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u453	Let me finish with one last sentence. There's two of them. I express, on behalf of our group, the hope and confidence that this historic step, if de-consolidated, will ultimately lead not only to the renewal of the municipal system, which is therefore being pursued, but that, if we make good use of that opportunity, it can even lead to the strengthening of local government. I would like to hear the opinion of the Minister for the Interior on the content and purpose of the motion, although of course I am also aware that a lot has already been said about the motion in the first period without it being tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u454	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group would also like to congratulate Mrs Van Leeuwen on her wonderful maiden speech. We were very impressed by that. If this debate learns anything, it is that this bill is indeed the catalyst for a debate on the role and position of the mayor and the CdK in our administrative system. It is a good thing that this debate is getting under way. Whether or not that leads to a different method of appointment in the short term will have to be proved. In any case, the outcome may be that this Chamber appoints a number of principles and values that are important in determining the mayor's position. In itself, we think this is the profit of this debate. I also note that this is perhaps a little more economical than the fact that this cabinet wants to write down these principles, but that it does not feel the need to give a real vision to them. I am not talking about the content of a follow-up process. To this end, we would like to continue to invite the Cabinet in its role as an organic legislator. By the way, as I said in my earlier term, our group can live well with the current practice of appointments on the proposal of the city council. So in that respect, there is no rush to act quickly now. In fact, a step towards an elected mayor also requires, as far as my party is concerned, a much better consideration of how the system will relate to each other than within the municipality and within the province. But apart from that, there is something going on with the position of the mayor in particular. There is no reason, when it comes to undermining, when it comes to the vulnerabilities that are in it, when it comes to the integrity role, to remain on the hands with it. That is independent of destitutionalisation. I am glad that the Minister has mentioned a number of points for this. I would like her to say once again explicitly that she is also involving this Chamber in the outcome of the process of the Council of State and in the other steps it is taking there. It would be very nice if she did so in the form of a commitment. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we once had a failed consultative mayor's referendum. Mrs. Vlietstra also went into it. I did a little checking. It was abolished by the Balkenende IV cabinet in 2008. And perhaps to reassure the initiator: D66 was not in that cabinet. Just a brief word on the motion for a resolution. I understand from what Mr Rombouts said, and I assume on behalf of the other signatories, that the Constitution is actually the night lock and the door of the back door when it comes to the mayor's appointment. This motion may sound a bit like a small cut that will replace it. As far as my group is concerned, it is the balance, which I really want to make with my group, whether you should do it symbolically, whether it adds something or not. That's what we're gonna consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u456	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u457	Mr. Chairman. I'm a romantic. I've enjoyed all the contributions, and certainly the beautiful contributions that made me think of past centuries. Illustrative is that today the TV section EenVandaag broadcast an item titled: Chosen mayor, the people are long in favour. This accentuates the gap that exists. There has been a large majority for the elected mayor for decades. This is where the rear guard is still worried about stopping this. Mrs Van Leeuwen, whom I congratulate on a beautiful maiden speech, has once again explained how the mayor's names relate to each party in the Netherlands. The Minister has confirmed that. But to put it quite simply, the CDA has three times as many mayors as it gets votes in the elections. And with the Labour Party, that ratio is even four to one. Perhaps there is a cause there, consciously or unconsciously, that one wants to stick to the current system so cramped. And that is in stark contrast to the 98% of the rest of the population. We must be able to imagine that there are people who do not want to be members of a political party. Maybe they're right. How nice it would be if such a person would just be a candidate in a place and be carried by the people. Wouldn't that be enrichment? We are thinking of objections which have long been refuted in practice in other countries. But we're gonna go on quietly. Mr. Chairman. There has been talk of a crown jewel of D66. I'd like to give this batch a gift that looks a little bit like this against the sintering season. But if you lift this crown jewel, it turns out to be an empty shell. Nothing will change in the short term. That's the science we're going home with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u458	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am still a little confused by Mr Nagel's final sentence, but I will get over it and try to continue the debate. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Van Leeuwen on her maiden speech. Given its content, I am very curious about the contribution of the Party for Animals in second term, and also about the vote next week. Mr. Chairman. Much has been spoken in this debate by former mayors and even by an acting mayor. I couldn't help noticing that. I am only an ex-alderman myself, elected by the city council, but I have been a city council member for 15 years, and as such I am a member of the highest administrative authority in my municipality. And that last one's gonna stay that way. That is what we consider to be the great gain of this debate. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Jetten and the Minister for their very clear answers, at least to our questions. Mr Jetten made it clear that this proposal for an initiative would allow for a different method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner. At least this is how I try to express it in my own words. In my reassurance and those of others, he says that this cannot affect the head of the city council and the provincial states. It also includes the tasks and powers attached to it. This remains fully in place, at least in terms of scope, not on every letter; in material terms it remains in place. So there is no constitutional room for a so-called presidential system in the mayoral election. That is what he and the Minister said in so many words. We are very pleased with that, because the core of our input in the first term was that we hoped that the minister and the initiator would conclude that way, at least as far as we have something to say about it now. Mr Kuiper, who, like my group, is opposed to a so-called presidential system, would also prefer to rule out the possibility of another elected mayor. I don't quite follow that. Look, my group is also in favour of a council-elected mayor, if anything changes. However, I do not see how we could now decide through the Constitution that, after a broad discussion in the House of Representatives, nothing else will come out of it. If we don't agree with what's coming out of it, we just have to agree to it here. I do not know why this should be ruled out in advance by means of the Constitution or by means of provisions from this Chamber. I do not think it would be democratic if we were to do so. I'm trying to make a bit of a rush. Mr Schalk has spoken a lot of times in a question which I know has been answered by both Mr Engels and the Minister in the first term. It is a question of whether there has been another proposal for deconstitutionalisation that we did not know how to deal with further. Yes, that was the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's presidency of the council! That was removed from the Constitution in 2008, not so long ago. Everyone or almost everyone said that they did not have to do so in the Constitution. But there were no plans to change that arrangement by law at all. They have not been implemented in the last ten years, although they could possibly be implemented. There is nothing against it if the majority wanted it to. I would like to say a few words about the contribution of the PvdA, which surprised me to a great extent. If I have understood correctly, the PvdA says: we are, as in our programme, for a mayor elected by the city council, but we already have one, so nothing needs to change. I checked with the PvdA in the event of interruption, so I think I got it right. That seems to me to be a strange conclusion. If it is true that the current method of appointment already leads to the elected mayor, then in 2017 the PvdA would never have put in its programme for the municipal elections that we should come to an elected mayor? That interpretation of their own program is strange to me. By the way, it is also a different interpretation from that of the PvdA in the House of Representatives. In any case, my group will be voting in favour of this initiative proposal with the Socialist Group of the European Parliament and the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament, precisely because we hope that it will lead to a mayor elected by the Council. Finally, I would like to comment on the Minister's clear answer that the cabinet does not intend to come forward with a legislative proposal for the appointment of the mayor or the King's Commissioner. In fact, she invites the House of Representatives to come up with an initiative. We would like to endorse that invitation. It is not up to us, but with the Minister we ask the House of Representatives to come up with that. I do have a question for the Minister. If the Lower House or first groups within that Chamber come forward with an initiative bill for a mayor elected by the council, how is the cabinet going to advise? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u460	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u461	Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate Mrs Van Leeuwen on her beautiful maiden speech. I would also like to thank the initiator and the Minister for their clear statements. The Minister made two statements. This measure enables the legislator to adapt the appointment and the duties and functions of mayors and Commissioners. She also stated that the changes were not aimed at changing the system. These two statements seem to be somewhat contradictory at first, but they are both true. In the first instance, change is not aimed at change, because the law determines exactly the same, but the change allows the legislator to adapt the method of appointment. At the moment, there are many methods of designation within the constitutional system, but the mayor directly elected by the people, and certainly those who are still further rigged up, seem to encounter Article 125 in relation to the headship rather than the crown appointment. Even Belgian mayors can be appointed by the Crown, so what kind of Dutch mayors could not be appointed by the Crown? All these shapes are possible. And all those forms that are possible within the constitutional system can be maintained if Article 131 is abolished. The appointment can then be made by someone else, e.g. the city council. That is indeed a change. Let me come back to what I made in the first instance as a final remark: if changing is not an identifiable goal, why would you change it? In fact, I have to say here that the conclusion is that there is no material need to change anything in the real designation of mayor and Commissioner. After all, all the possibilities that are now available will soon be there. Only the formal aspect of this, so the question of who is carrying out the formal appointment, changes. But I note that, in the practice of our municipalities and provinces, that very formal aspect, i.e. the formal appointment by the Crown, is not really a burden to anyone. Many see that as an advantage. Everyone, as has been shown today, greatly appreciates the independence, impartiality and commitment of mayor and Commissioner. These characteristics must be guaranteed. And a lot of people see a certain guarantee in that crown designation. Mr Rombouts' motion, which is actually intended to replace the post of crown appointment, is a sign of this, although it does not entirely succeed in replacing it. The crown designation is something other than a motion of which you do not know what else is going on. So if I once again ask my own question whether this change serves an identifiable and meaningful purpose, then I say: materially not and it is only the question of whether change is formally beneficial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u462	I have a question for Mr Ten Hoeve. He says that no one suffers from a crown appointment, but as a supporter of direct democracy I dare say that I do suffer from it. And with the PVV there are still a lot of Dutch people in favour of direct democracy. They're bothered by that, too. They don't want a crown nomination, they want a directly elected mayor. So I'm not sure anyone's gonna have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u463	That was a little too absolute from me, too. Of course, there are people who want that different. Moreover, the second question is how much burden these people face, but the fact that a number of people do want to change is, of course, a very clear matter. Perhaps I should confine that remark to my constituents. I haven't found anyone in my constituency who's affected by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u464	Thank you, at least, for that limitation. "Does it bother you"? There will undoubtedly be mayors appointed who are not supported by a large proportion of the population. Those people might have a problem with that. That is the point: people who are directly elected mayors find it different. That it might be different in your constituency... You represent a large number of local parties, I understand. But as I listen to many local parties, they think very differently about it, so I might ask again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u465	If you are referring to the directly elected mayor and by that you mean the mayor directly elected by the people, then I say: there are more hooks and eyes to that. With this amendment of the constitution, we will not be there immediately, because that leaves Article 125.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u466	I would like to point out to Mr Ten Hoeve that, of course, a crown appointment will always be possible, but it is not regulated by the Constitution. The ordinary legislator can choose this, in combination, of course, with the current system, in which the city council actually chooses from below.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u467	Sure. Nor did I say that, if this constitutional provision were to lapse, the crown appointment would expire. It does not expire immediately, but can be replaced. Because the Constitution no longer prescribes it, a different method of appointment, for example by the city council, has been made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u468	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u469	Very briefly in the direction of Mr Ten Hoeve, in all sharpness. In the case of a directly elected mayor, Article 125 of the Constitution on the head of the council can also be maintained. That doesn't have to bite each other. This has been argued earlier in the first term of the initiator. It can be combined with each other. There are all kinds of options. That's not what's going on today either. Today is really just about de-constitutionalizing. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u470	I very much agree with Mr Van Hattem's last remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u471	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u472	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I also congratulate Mrs Van Leeuwen on her maiden speech. I look forward to the debates we will have with each other. Thank you for the answers from the author and the Minister. In my view, I put something solid in the first period, because we have talked for a long time about the fact that there should be no mess in the Constitution before there is a supporting reasoning or an overall perspective for the future. In the answer I found it quite striking that the author mentioned all sorts of variants, but excluded one, where I think: that is not what we are talking about here. Anyway, he also mentioned important values and qualities that are of interest to any mayor, in any form of appointment. We are very much in agreement on that. The Minister chooses a different approach from my group. It speaks of a "pure reasoning." That may and may be so, but the problem is that these pure words lead to an act, namely deconstitutionalisation, and I wonder if that should be the route. As far as I am concerned, this is still a precarious undertaking, and it is therefore a good thing that today we have been asked to vote by roll call next week. This is due to the importance attached to a constitutional change. But in my opinion there is also a way out, namely the well-known route that we followed recently in a bill on two-thirds majority voting for adoption by EU treaties. That is also an intention to amend the Constitution. The petitioner, Mr Van der Staaij, was then asked to hold the bill until it was clear. This room could do the same. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Vlietstra, Mr Sent, Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Koffeman and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the envisaged de-constitutionalisation is currently not sufficiently embedded in a broader, future-proof interpretation of the position and tasks of adjacent bodies within the respective territorial levels;]] [[Whereas this lacks the future perspective as regards the appointment of the King's Commissioner and of the Mayor;]] [[Whereas the method of appointment cannot be separated from the positions, tasks and responsibilities of the other bodies within the respective levels of government;]] [[Whereas the Constitution should not be amended in the absence of an informed view;]] [[calls on the Government to first develop a (problem) analysis and vision of the future of local and provincial democracy and governance in a broad sense, demonstrating the position of the King's and Mayor's Commissioner and the manner in which they are subsequently appointed;]] [[calls on the petitioner to hold the bill until the (problem) analysis, the vision of the future of local and provincial democracy, and the appropriate manner of appointment of the King's Commissioner and of the Mayor have been considered by this Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34716-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u473	Can I ask Mr Schalk whether he thinks it possible that, after that problem analysis he is asking for and the discussion about it, there will ever be a moment when the SGP Group would say: yes, that is the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's appointment, having heard everything, surely a responsible matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u474	I think that is an interesting question, but there are motions to ensure that what is in the Chamber's legislation comes through this Chamber as well as possible. This is one of the options in this respect, which would in fact be achieved that, even if the SGP, my party, would still be against, something has happened that I have argued all day, namely: let us first have the debate, know where we want to go and then have the vote on this bill, so that we do not undermine the Constitution without knowing what direction we want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u475	There has already been a lot of discussion. About this initiative law in one reading in this Chamber and two readings in the House of Representatives. Following the first reading in the First Chamber, numerous reports were published by the Minister for the Interior. Then you'll be able to come to your conclusion. But you don't do that yet, so you think there's more information you need to make up your mind. But then my question makes sense: is it possible that after that further information you will say: now we know enough, now we are in favour? If that is impossible in advance, does it not make much sense to keep asking for new information? Then it looks a bit like: we're just trying to postpone, postpone, postpone. Surely you're not surprised that that impression could be given to others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u476	Certainly not, I am not surprised that that impression could be given, but I have just argued the following. Whatever law is before us, it seems to me to be part of our special office to try to take away what might come to pass, even if you disagree. We use the means of motion for this in this Chamber. You could also reverse the question. Mr Köhler points out that there is already so much incredibly ready. In the first period of time, for example by the VVD very strongly, was asked not to return here for a second reading before there is a solid vision for the future. Doesn't Mr Köhler find it strange that he hasn't been there yet, while thanks to Mr Rombouts, during the course of the debate, we have been touched by a lot of supporting elements, which he has gathered together in a week, so to speak? In other words, can there not be a vision of the future before we take this step? That's what this motion is for. I ask the House's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u477	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u478	I don't think it's useful to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u479	Then you shouldn't. Mr. Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u480	I try to relieve my good colleague, Mr Köhler. Let me begin by saying that I think it is very good that Mr Schalk is once again making an extraordinary effort today to make his party's vision very influential here. But I must honestly say that this motion, too, is, of course, a fairly transparent attempt to use a last resort in order not to allow what Mr Schalk fears to happen. We've been through that before. At times when a particular proposal is not considered attractive, a vision is always called for, and when that vision is there, it is then concluded: that is not our vision, so we stay against it. That is exactly what Mr Köhler is suggesting. I think he's right about that. If you do not agree with the way things are going in this proposal, why not just vote against it instead of trying to create another postponement? I still have a substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u481	Can I at least respond to these comments? I think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u482	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u483	If I wanted it not to happen at all, I should have changed my clothes on the motion. Of course, maybe I don't want it to go on either, but I should have just said: "calls on the petitioner to withdraw the bill." I didn't. I have also looked at the composition of this Chamber. I also looked at the coalition agreement. I know that everyone will say tonight that we are not bound by the coalition agreement, but I want to try to take it one step and just see what is actually in the coalition agreement. Actually, that's very clear. "The examination of the initiative proposal for constitutional revision at second reading on the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner will continue." If my motion were to be accepted, we would first do the vision of the future and then the bill would come out again. So the government parties already have the continuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u484	That is also very good and conveniently done, but also very transparent. I'm sorry to say that. That's what we disagree on. I would like to raise my substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u485	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u486	Mr. Schalk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u487	When I try to make my points here, it's a little easy to say it's "clear." It is transparent, because I am trying to be transparent here and say what I stand for. I'm not in favour of this bill. I understand we're going to put the bill to the vote next week, unless my motion is passed. If we put it to the vote, I want it to be sealed off as well as possible. I find Mr Rombouts' attempt to do so interesting. I asked him, following Mrs Vlietstra, if he could see if she could be a little more firmer. But even if he did not, I find the motion so interesting that I can imagine that my group will vote for it. So I am so transparent, but this bill is not the choice of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u488	Mr Engels, now for your substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u489	It was already clear in advance that this bill was not the choice of the SGP. My substantive question is that you have completely ignored the statement made here, that the mayor's position is not constitutional in law, because you are on a different track. That's a statement. My question is this. The motion was read a while ago. On what basis do you base the observation in your motion that a constitutional amendment cannot take place without something replacing it in the same constitution? I am very curious to know which state law rule or which principle that is based on. Or is it an opinion that you have as a SGP Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u490	I have indeed written down this wording as a member of the SGP Chamber. It says "whereas the Constitution should not be amended in the absence of an informed view on this issue." I can imagine the whole Chamber would agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u491	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u492	You don't have to, but I think you do. That seems to me to be a very logical line of thinking. There is very often talk of a constitutional court. We don't. The First Chamber is the guardian of the Constitution. Let's do it as best we can, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u493	That vision has been out since 1848 by Thorbecke, with his trial of the Constitution. There has only been an adjustment and this adjustment is reversed. A very well worked out trial of the Constitution is still being translated in this way. In this respect, there is a very clear vision. It is therefore not the case that we are entering the world completely openly with this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u494	I wonder if Mr Van Hattem is absolutely right about that. There are a number of political groups here that have signed this motion at least, but there are also four large groups in this Chamber who have signed the other motion. Why did they do that? Because they want that vision to be secured. So it's a perfectly normal argument. If there was only a motion here tonight asking whether we think there should be a vision, then the answer was probably almost entirely 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u495	Now you already assume that there can only be one vision. Here is precisely the possibility that different perspectives are possible. The initiative should be just across the street, in the House of Representatives. Now you're pre-sorting on that. Does this fit in with your own constitutional role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u496	Yes. This fits the role. The bill is on the table here. We can say that we talk about it for a while and then vote on it, but we can also link motions to it and request something from the author. Maybe he's willing to do it. I'm not quite sure yet. I'm simply asking the petitioner to keep it. First, I ask the government to ensure a well-founded vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u497	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u498	When is a vision founded for you? What characteristics would it have to meet without you already implementing legislation? You are actually putting the initiator on an almost impossible track to come up with something. If he comes up with something, it can later say that it is contrary to the Constitution and therefore not possible. That's almost some kind of trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u499	I don't think that's the case. What is being asked here in this motion is exactly the same, perhaps in slightly different words, as requested by a number of groups at the end of the first reading in this Chamber. On the basis of promises, some of those groups even voted in favour at that time. It's not that complicated. It says here: 'enbedded in a broader, future-proof interpretation of the position and tasks of adjacent bodies within the respective territorial levels'. I think there is indeed so much material that it should be possible in itself in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u500	You're done with your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u501	Thanks to me for the time and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u502	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u503	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer given by the initiator, Mr Jetten, and by the Minister. Congratulations, of course, to Mrs Van Leeuwen. And no, I really didn't feel touched by your metaphor of an old cake. Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten's reaction was clear. That he gave it in his double role of initiator and group chairman in the Lower House of D66 gives it an extra dimension and meaning. In short, he says: the crown designation is stretched to the limit, so that the rack is completely out and can no longer absorb any new adjustments. Enforcement of Article 125 determines the scope and possibilities and inability of possible new options of the method of appointment, but thus excludes the toughest variant of the elected mayor, namely the so-called presidential model. Mr Jetten shares with the VVD the importance of determining in advance the conditions and values that the mayor must fulfil. Mr Jetten promises us not to issue a legislative proposal for the elected mayor in two weeks' time, but that, if it is up to him, a broad debate will first be held on all aspects, including consistency with local government. That is noted, but it does not reassure everyone, I think, because he still has 149 colleagues. I understand that's why he can't give you a guarantee, but you'll always lose it if you need it. The Minister also outlines the legislative history of the establishment of the public administration, which, according to the examples, was not established between the soup and the potatoes. The government is therefore not afraid of occasional legislation. As far as it is concerned, Article 125 is also the starting point for any form of appointment. In summary: initiator and minister ask for confidence in the parliamentary process in this respect. The Minister also mentions independence, i.e. a locally independent position and independent operation, as a starting point. I conclude on the basis of both arguments that, in her view and Mr Jetten's view, a number of other important values for the office should be legally anchored. I should like to clarify my question from the interruption of the debate. It came down to this. Does the Minister intend to take the initiative to come up with a vision of local government, including the role and position of the mayor, and also the values discussed here to which the minister must comply? We really do not expect a concrete legislative proposal next month on a change in the method of appointment. I said that in my first term. We're political realists. But from her reaction, the cabinet will not make an amendment itself. What I ask is whether the Minister would like to take the initiative, building on the letter from her predecessor in 2016, to give her vision on the establishment of local government and the position, tasks and powers of the mayor, regardless of the manner of appointment and on the basis of the head of the board. Mr. Chairman. In this second term, I would like to place Mr Rombouts of the CDA on the list of speakers, so that he could table the motion of CDA, D66, VVD and ChristenUnion at the beginning of this period. We are, of course, curious about the Minister's reaction, but I would suggest that she, after this intensive treatment, has already discussed it and, given the time when we are sitting, sets out her response in a letter to this Chamber, covering the aspects that have been discussed in detail here today. Of course, it should not take weeks, but it must be that they, and we too, have sufficient time and opportunity for care. We would like to propose that the vote be postponed for a week until 27 November. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the VVD Group will weigh up its position on the basis of this debate. Such a letter may be of support. I cannot, therefore, give a final judgment at the moment, but I hope, on the basis of today's debate and perhaps later on, that our final judgement can be as close as possible to our voting behaviour on 28 April 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u504	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mrs Van Leeuwen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u505	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Jetten and the Minister very much for their first-term response. I also have to make a small correction on my first term. The Minister has rightly corrected me for this. There are already a few more partyless mayors than I imagined, but it remains a sadly small number. However, Maastricht is the only big city with a partyless mayor. I found this instructive for my first debate. I found the critical attitude of the spokesmen of the coalition parties particularly striking as a newcomer. I am very curious to see if I have witnessed a ritual dance, a genuine concern that points to divided groups, which had to be done justice to all wings. In short, I still feel a bit of a strange duck in a mirror palace. I may have witnessed a scoop: the PVV and D66 who passionately advocate the same thing. I have not seen this in this form before, but it is possible that both extremes are growing somewhat towards each other. Or is there more agreement possible than was previously assumed, at least by me? What I have missed in replying to Mr Jetten and the Minister is the answer to the question of what exactly citizens have to the present proposal and what question has been asked at all from the bourgeoisie who provides this proposal with its capacity. This also in relation to the valuation of the D66 mayor of Enschede and the former D66 commissioner of the King Jan Terlouw, who both wonder what problem this is for. I also missed an answer to the question of how the petitioner and the minister feel about party political appointments. A king's commissioner is arriving in Gelderland. Are they prepared to plead in their party for the waiver of party political appointments, pending a new manner of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner? Why not clarify the follow-up steps to be taken? And why not arrest the proposal for the Remkes Committee's opinion? How does the Minister and the petitioner intend to ensure that women and representatives of smaller parties are no longer disproportionately disadvantaged? I would like those questions answered. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u506	Thank you, Mrs Van Leeuwen. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra. To this end, a few tricks need to be done. Mrs. Vlietstra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u507	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the petitioner and the minister for their detailed and clear answers. In my first term, I said that we are not fundamentally opposed to constitutionalisation, but that we want to be convinced of the social or legal need. What is the problem with this? I also said that we think we should have a look at the final picture before we decide on deconstitutionalisation. On the first point, both the petitioner and the minister have said that they are completely decoupled from each other. The Minister said quite clearly: I believe that this is a division of labour between the constitutionalist and the legislator. It is about restoring things from the past and it is about a pure interpretation of what is wrong with the constitution and what is wrong with the legislator. In the end, the Minister said that we have a difference of opinion on this point. I think she's right about that. It is her conviction and against beliefs it is difficult to argue. We have a different view. We believe that the Constitution currently provides guarantees on matters that we consider important. Then I think about consistency and continuity, things that you shouldn't put lightly overboard, especially as long as there is no insight into what will replace it. With regard to the second point, the Minister, the petitioner and the Chamber agree on a number of points when we talk about what I would call 'continue'. The head of the council is not in question. I'm glad to hear that. This remains, of course, enshrined in the Constitution. The minister and the petitioner see the dominant value of the mayor above the parties. Stability and continuity are very important. Regardless of the method of appointment, the mayor must be able to perform his duties properly in the field of public order and security. For example, a whole list of points has been mentioned by both the Minister and the author, whom we are of course very much in agreement with. I do not see Mr Rombouts anymore; on the other hand, he is once again in a motion from the four parties participating in this cabinet. I had hoped and also expected the Minister to take the initiative for a further step. There is a great deal of material that has been collected by her predecessor, as the Minister has acknowledged. Now that I have heard the parties, I assume that the deconstitutionalisation will continue and that the legislator will have the opportunity of the constitutionalist to take those steps. But the Minister is not taking the step to make use of it. I am very touched by what Mrs Huijbregts has just said. I would very much like to join in that. Why does the Minister not make use of the space that will soon be given to the legislator by the constitutionalist? I would like to hear more about that from the Minister. Apparently there is a broad need, also in this Chamber. Since a lot of work has already been done by her predecessor, I find it strange that this minister says that she does not want to go into it. Then, as far as I'm concerned, it's not about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u508	Then I'll give Mr. Van Hattem the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u509	I find it remarkable what Mrs Vlietstra of the PvdA is now arguing. On the one hand, you say: the minister and the initiator have been clear in their story and all the concerns have been clearly explained. At the same time, you say: I should like to see a concrete approach to the issues that have been brought together at an earlier stage; I would like to see a concrete proposal on the table. At the same time, you are also signing a motion to keep the proposal, because there is still a problem analysis to be carried out and everything to be sorted out. With your story, I can go anywhere. I can't tie a rope to it anymore. On the one hand it is all neatly ticked off and in order, but on the other hand something has to be put in place and in the meantime there has to be a problem analysis. What does the PvdA want? I can't make chocolate out of it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u510	It's almost December 5th. I'll do my best to make you that chocolate. I have said that I think that clear answers have been given, but that is different from that I agree with those answers. We're gonna keep having a problem. Mr. Ten Hoeve said it strikingly: what exactly are we doing? We're getting an article... We're not gonna get it out, but we're gonna change an article in the Constitution, and then we're not gonna do anything about it. That is exactly the problem we have. We want that follow-up discussion. We want to see a final picture. We want that before we decide on the deconstitutionalisation. That is why we support the motion that Mr Schalk has just tabled. I don't know if this is good chocolate, but at least it's the chocolate I can offer you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u511	It's not quite a chocolate yet. It's not quite clear and clear yet. It's a little milk chocolate, let's just say. But all the bullshit aside: I always think it's a bit of a move to actually get out of here under the proposal, a bit of a weakness offer from the PvdA. You say we want a final picture. But at the same time it shouldn't all be stuck too much, because all options still have to be kept open, given the list that was checked off first. What is the obstacle to adopting this proposal and then having an open discussion about what should be done afterwards? Why does all that have to be boarded up in the front? Tell me very clearly where you want to go, because that is not what I hear. I do not hear the PvdA say: we want an elected or appointed mayor. Make it clear what the PvdA really wants, because that's what I'm looking for all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u512	The first deadline was already a while ago, but let me remind you of my own contribution. I said about in the third sentence, after welcoming Mr Jetten, that the PvdA is in favour of an elected mayor and a mayor elected by the council. I also immediately respond to what was said from the side of the SP in my direction, because that was very short. I would have said, in Mr Köhler's view, that we already have the mayor elected by the Council and that nothing needs to change. The opposite is true. I have said: at the moment we have a mayor elected by the Council, in the way in which we are appointed, but, of course, the Crown is still giving a blow to that effect. For us, that is no reason to say that there should now be a very urgent process of de-constitutionalisation. For us, it is a good reason to start the debate on the basis of everything that is on the table after the first reading: what is the situation with local democracy, where do we want to go with the local order, which mayor belongs in it and, as a final point, which method of appointment fits in with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u513	Finally and very briefly, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u514	Finally, I would like to summarize briefly. What I make out of this is that the PvdA...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u515	You don't have to summarize it briefly. Do you have a question for Mrs. Vlietstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u516	So you are actually saying: our final picture is a mayor elected by the council, but at the moment we really don't want to do anything about it; the current situation that PvdA mayors are still appointed everywhere in the country is fine, so we are not going to rush it. That's what I think you're putting on the table with this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u517	I didn't mention PvdA mayors, and I won't. I would like to stress once again that we do not want to separate the debate on deconstitutionalisation from the debate on where we want to go with the local system and the position of the mayor in it. That is precisely why we have signed Mr Schalk's motion. We do not see the urgency of doing so, in anticipation of that broader debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u518	I do hear Mrs Vlietstra react positively to the idea that a number of principles and conditions are being laid down, including as a result of this debate. That is the next step, which indeed gives an insight into the way in which you are going to shape this in the future. Do you think that's a sensible next step? For now, because we all know that more will have to happen afterwards. Can we agree that this is the next important step that we can take together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u519	So the question is, who's going to take that step? The motion you have tabled, together with a number of colleagues, raises a number of points which I can agree with, but that motion is fairly non-binding because it is a ruling from this Chamber. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reaction to the motion. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to include what is in that motion in, for example, a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u520	Who? Mr. English or Mr. Köhler? Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u521	I would like to try again for myself to get some clarity on the PvdA position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u522	Please be brief, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u523	Yeah, I'd like to do it briefly. I hope that Mrs Vlietstra can give that clarity. Does she say: yes, in the current procedure, the city council is now elected, but there is still the crown appointment, so it is not quite what we really want? Do I understand her that well? And can I also hear her say: but we cannot delete that crown designation for the time being if we do not know where to go? If I hear both these points correctly, how does Mrs Vlietstra reconcile them? You do know where you're going with this, don't you? So you can still agree to delete that crown designation? And then, in the debate on where we want to go, you can take your position? That position is, by the way, the same as mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u524	If this proposal is adopted, we will not change the method of appointment. What is being amended in Article 131 is that it will now be left to ordinary legislation, whatever it may look like. With this we still have a crown designation, based on Article 61 of the Municipal Act. I have said that there are also arguments for keeping the appointment of the mayor in the Constitution, whatever that may look like, for reasons of consistency and continuity. So I think you're confusing two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u525	Finally, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u526	Yes, I admit you're confusing me with your input. I'm trying to find some logic in your input, and I can't. Are you now suggesting with your last remark that we should, in any case and if necessary in any other way, lay down in the Constitution the mayor's designation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u527	It could be. That is precisely why we do not want to separate things from each other. We are not opposed in principle to de-constitutionalisation, but first we want to have the debate on what this future method of appointment will look like. That then is a derivative of a whole trajectory that precedes it. After that debate, we want to see what consequences this has for the Constitution. I have the impression you understand now, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u528	No, don't provoke Mr. Köhler, Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u529	I understand very well now, yes. I'm even more surprised, but I understand very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u530	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u531	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u532	Mr. Engels, you're still a little nervous walking back and forth. Would you like to ask me something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u533	I come to you, Mr President, because with Mr Köhler I have become so confused that I am not even able to ask a question anymore. And that's pretty unique.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u534	You've managed to do that, Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u535	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm going through that. I am entirely of my own mind, Mr President, because of this last remark made by Mr Engels, because that is not how I know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u536	You have almost three minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u537	I think I've had my points, Mr. Chairman. We have co-signed the Schalk motion. About the motion-Rombouts c.s. We shall consider it in our group. And I assume that the position of the Labour Party on this bill is sufficiently clear after this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u538	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I come to the last speaker and give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Jetten and the Minister for their careful response. I think we are having a very important and beautiful debate with each other. It's about something. I need to briefly outline the position of the Christian Union with regard to the central questions. The first question is: is it necessary to regulate the methods of appointment of the mayor and the Commissioner in the Constitution? Is that necessary? No, that is not necessary, that can be otherwise, that can also be done elsewhere, and that can also be done in ordinary legislation. And is the anchoring of the appointment a necessary condition for the quality of public administration? That is not the case either. The quality of the public administration can also be guaranteed in other ways. So much for answering a few theoretical questions. But this is not a theoretical debate, but this is a debate in a particular context. We must also note that in the 170 years in which we have done it as we do it now, a stable decentralised administration has emerged with its own role for the mayor who is important and which we want to cherish. In the meantime, the current method of appointment has evolved, which is also part of the context ""." He's different from what he was originally meant to be. And that's fine, too. The way things are going now, it's actually in accordance with our intentions. In today's way, the Christian Union can agree very well, precisely because it ensures that there is also support for the choice of a specific person. We welcome the fact that this appointment will then indeed be confirmed and that there will also be an external ID. This election by the Council is widely appreciated and widely supported in this Chamber. I just heard Mrs Vlietstra say that she supports it, but also the SP said it here today. This means that this is actually the preferred variant of a very large majority of the parties. And it is also the preferred variant of my group. But deconstitutionalisation also opens a new debate on the method of appointment and the appointment of the mayor. That is the intention, and that debate will also be held. If the legislator gets a move on it, it will. Then there will be room to think about a new method of appointment. If that is the case, it is very important that we guarantee together what we consider so important at the moment. In this debate, I have sought to obtain as much certainty as possible about this and thus to gain as much confidence as possible in the step to be taken today, or next week, or in two weeks' time. That is why such a framework, which we agree on together, is important. It must contain a number of principles and conditions, just as the Minister has pointed out here. Article 125 of the Constitution is very important in this respect, about the headship of the city council and of the provincial states. This remains a very important anchor for the way in which we want to look at local governance, its roles, tasks and responsibilities when amending Article 131. That should therefore be an anchor point for us. A motion has been tabled here, and I have signed it, which lists a number of these conditions or principles. There's about six of them in there. It has been noted here: isn't that a bit of an open door? I don't think so. I think that if we agree that the things mentioned in that operative part are important, and that they should be taken into account in the next stage, we will do something very important when we say that. We will then outline the framework in which further legislation can be seen in the future. I would say to Mrs Vlietstra that I think it is a little quick to ask for concrete legislation on the way in which a way of appointment might be changed. If there is no legislation, then it will remain as it is now in municipal law and Province law. And you're actually okay with that, so it could stay that way for a while. But it is important that if a change in the method of appointment is proposed, we have a framework to check: is this what we mean? We have that opportunity today and we are talking about it here. That is why I think it is important that the Minister responds to the motion, as Mrs Vlietstra also said. I think it would be important for the Minister to state: we have spoken today and we have indeed reached a kind of consensus on a set of conditions and principles that guide the follow-up. I support Mrs Huijbregts' suggestion to ask for a letter on this matter. As far as I am concerned, that does not have to be a piece of paper either. It could also be some kind of summary of what we have achieved today. I think it would be very important for this letter to state that what is requested in the motion is actually being implemented, and that it will therefore have real political consequences. Then it's not noncommittal, but then it has meaning. I also hope that the Labour Party can go along with that. In response to my interruptions, you also said that you think it is important what the Minister has to say about this. I agree, so I'm asking the Minister that question now. I hope she will answer both of us in that, because I do not think that the next step should be new legislation immediately, the next step should be to ask what frameworks we will work from in the future, when the appointment of mayor and Commissioner disappears from the Constitution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u540	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I understand that the initiator, Mr Jetten, has asked for a 15-minute suspension. Is that still the case? Ten minutes is enough? Look, that's beautiful. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 5:30. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u541	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 34716, the proposal for a law of Mr Jetten amending the Constitution, aimed at the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. I shall first give the floor to the initiator, Mr Jetten, for the second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u542	Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to thank you and all the Members of this Chamber for a very nice debate, after a very careful preparation which you have chosen as a Chamber in the run-up to this plenary debate on the second reading of this constitutional amendment. I must confess that I found it special to be able to defend this second reading here on behalf of the House of Representatives. Madam President. I thank Mr Van Hattem for his fine words and the support of his group for the proposal. I think that our soft g was the reason for the confusion in the names, just in the second term of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Engels for the support from the D66 Group. In his second term, Mr Engels reiterated the importance of the Board's final responsibility in the local administration and the need to avoid a conflict between two mandates: on the one hand, one mayor and on the other hand, the Council. I'll share that. Madam President. In particular, thank you to Mr Rombouts. He said in his second term: fear is a bad counselor and sometimes courage has been demanded. I thought that was a very nice way of expressing the struggle that he and his group have been through here, because my experience after one and a half years of parliamentary membership is that we sometimes find it difficult as politicians to share that struggle fairly. So compliments on the way he put that into words. Mr Rombouts also said that he hoped that any new proposals, if adopted, would be aimed not only at the renewal of local government, but above all at strengthening local government. I fully share that. I believe that the motion tabled by Mr Rombouts and supported by D66, VVD and the Christian Union is also a very valuable statement by this Chamber for any future proposals on a new method of appointment of the mayor. Mr Rombouts, Madam President, also asked me specifically to confirm that I am not looking for a heavy presidential mayor. I can confirm that again. Madam President. Thanks also to Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Nagel van GroenLinks and 50PLUS for the support their political groups have given to the bill. I think that Mr Lintmeijer and I have already shared some values in the local government in the first place. Mr Köhler, Madam President, said that we must offer room without affecting the Board's head. That is precisely why we have left Article 125 untouched in this constitutional amendment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ten Hoeve took us in how his constituents are currently experiencing the current method of appointment. Perhaps it would be nice if Mr Ten Hoeve and I could talk together with both our fellow citizens for then he might experience that there is a different view. But I understand and appreciate his input in first and second terms. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk has asked me, by means of a motion, to maintain this amendment of the Constitution at second reading. I myself believe that the Second Chamber and the First Chamber have done this second reading of the Constitutional Change carefully, with a comprehensive written examination and an invitation to experts and interest groups to submit position papers to participate in an expert meeting in this Chamber. That is why I do not think that this legislative proposal is necessary. I would like to repeat to Mr Schalk the words of Mr Rombouts that sometimes a little courage is needed to make a choice. Mr. Chairman. In her second term, Mrs Huijbregts gave a very good summary of the debate, namely that the crown designation has been stretched and that there is broad consensus to maintain Article 125 and thereby maintain the Board's head as an important value in local government. I share her view that, should this constitutional amendment actually be adopted, a further step should be a broad debate that takes account of all aspects of local government and takes into account the coherence between the various actors mayor, college of B and W and the city council. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Leeuwen has asked me a number of very specific questions, including the vacancy for the Commissioner of the King in Gelderland. Now I myself was once allowed to participate in a nomination committee for a new mayor, and on the basis of that experience, I do not think that the current appointment committee in Gelderland would appreciate it if I were to comment on desirable or undesirable candidates for the Commissioner in Gelderland. Mrs Van Leeuwen also asked why I am not holding this second reading until the Remkes Committee, the State Committee on the Parliamentary System, has come to its final report. As far as I understand, this state committee will not comment on the mayor and focuses primarily on the parliamentary system. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van Leeuwen once again asked what exactly citizens have to gain from this proposal. I will try to summarize Mrs Huijbregts' summary very briefly once again. In my opinion, a number of social developments have been mentioned in this debate and also in the course of the debate in the House of Representatives, which may affect a strong local government and the position and role of the mayor. With this legislative proposal, I would like to give the legislator room to make any adjustments to the method of appointment that are appropriate to the challenges that local government now faces and which are in line with the values that are also widely shared in this Chamber as regards the role and position that the mayor must fulfil within it. I hope I have been able to answer your question. I also congratulate Mrs Vlietstra on the way in which she has participated in this debate despite her temporary mobility. It didn't stop you from looking up the interrupting microphone regularly. Mrs Vlietstra said that the Minister, the Chamber and the petitioner actually agree on many points; there is consensus, and that is fine. That is also my observation. I also believe that this consensus should provide some confidence in the way in which the ordinary legislator, should that responsibility lie with the ordinary legislator, will deal with that responsibility with regard to the way in which the mayor and the king's commissioner are appointed. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuiper of the Christian Union also pointed out that there was broad appreciation in this Chamber. Frankly, I also tasted it in the second reading in the Second Chamber for the head of the council, a great role for the council and perhaps even an election through the council of that mayor. But Mr Kuiper also rightly pointed out that deconstitutionalisation creates room for other solutions, and that it is therefore particularly important that we establish the values we share in a good way and that Article 125, as an "anchor point', is used by Mr Kuiper in any new discussion. I think that Mr Rombouts' motion under letter I, which was co-signed by Mr Kuiper, is a very good one. Finally, Mr President. I would once again like to thank Mr Schouw for his work on the first reading of this constitutional amendment. I would also like to express my special thanks to all the colleagues and advisers who have been involved behind the scenes in the first and second reading of this constitutional amendment, who have always supported me and Mr Schouw very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u543	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u544	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank you and the Members of this Chamber for the debate, for the comments made and for the questions put. On the basis of my responsibility as an advisor, I will refrain from general considerations in this period and I would like to proceed immediately to the motions and the remaining questions. It seemed logical to me, because it was so central to the second term of office, starting with the motion under letter I, which was just tabled by Mr Rombouts. The motion states that, when developing a possible new method of appointment, it would be desirable to opt for a form which does justice to the main character of the council, which we have just discussed in detail, and which provides guarantees for a relatively independent position of the mayor, for a self-contained set of tasks and powers with regard to public order, security and administrative integrity and for a position as above the parties. It must therefore be a binding driver for all citizens. I recognize these principles. That is what I said in my first term. I note that there is also broad consensus on these principles. That leads me to the conclusion that I can embrace this motion. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vlietstra asked, if I have interpreted that correctly, whether I am prepared to lay down what is in this motion in a law. I have just said in my first term that the head of the council is secured in the Constitution. That is an important fact for all of us if we want to maintain that headship. The mayor's duties in the field of public order and security and in the field of promoting integrity are enshrined in the Municipal Act. So the guarantees for that independent position actually stem from the system as such, and I think that is also the way to approach this issue. Now Mrs Huijbregts asked, and I have the impression that Mr Rombouts, as well as Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Köhler and Mr Kuiper, were in favour of sending a letter on this. Of course I want to do that. The Chamber therefore asks, and I think it is right that I should explain in that letter, as I have just summarized in my response to the motion, the explanation I give to the content of the motion and the conclusion that I attach to it. In that letter, I will repeat the values which the government believes should be respected in a possible future proposal. As I said earlier, the municipal system must remain in such a way that these principles are taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the other motion, under letter J, by Mr Schalk and others. This is the discussion I had with Mr Schalk: what comes first and is it the right order? I have argued that deconstitutionalisation, i.e. the question of constitutional anchoring, is, in the opinion of the government, separate from the method of appointment and the position. I have also argued that, in a substantive debate after the constitutionalisation, we must do justice to the analysis of the position and the anchoring of the position that we consider necessary. But the opposite cannot be the case, in other words, waiting for a vision that in my view is separate from the fundamental and constitutional question of the method of appointment is not the position of the government. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. A number of questions have been asked by Members. Mr Köhler of the SP asked how the cabinet would assess a possible legislative initiative if this were to happen. He mentioned an initiative proposal that would lead to a mayor appointed by the council. But Mr Köhler knows that I cannot and cannot, from my point of view, indicate how the cabinet would react to a possible initiative proposal. Well, it's got to be there first. I do think, having heard your Chamber and the proceeds of the process that has now been completed, thanks also to my predecessor, that there are clear principles on which the cabinet could examine such a proposal. And then I come back to the elements of independence, the tasks, the powers and the relationship with other governments that have just been mentioned. Mr Lintmeijer asked me to confirm or say that I would also inform this Chamber about the reflection on the Council of State's information on undermining and integrity. Of course, I'd like to tell him that. Mrs. Van Leeuwen had a few more questions. Perhaps I should have responded in the first place; she spoke about party political appointments in relation to the King's Commissioners. But Mrs Van Leeuwen knows the current procedure: everyone is free to apply. It's up to Provincial States to make a recommendation. When it comes to the Minister of BZK, it is a test at the end of the procedure and checks are done in the context of integrity. But the recommendation is the outcome of the process I just outlined and not the outcome of party political considerations. She also asked what I could do to get more female mayors. May I say that I do consider it important that mayors and also CdKs reflect society? I also note that the number of women in these positions is lagging behind. This also applies to other ways of expressing diversity and social reflection. So there is work to be done. What I can do is I can discuss this and settle it. I can talk to the CdKs about it, because they're the trial counselor in the selection of candidates for mayorship. I think it's also about the post itself, about how attractive that is, also for female applicants. But in the end, provincial states or the council have to make a choice. We must respect that here too. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered the remaining questions as well. I've already had the motions. I would like to quote Mr Rombouts, because he said: 'Research everything and preserve the good'. I believe that this is a good starting point, which fits in with the debate that has been taking place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u545	Thank you very much, also for the commitment of the letter. This would provide a review framework for further developments. That's very nice. The question is at what time this letter can come here, because I understand that there are groups here who would like to include that letter in the final weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u546	If so, I will take note of that and then I will send the letter as soon as possible carefully. I have just specifically referred to it as a letter in which I will repeat the reaction I have just given on behalf of the cabinet. It is therefore the position I have just taken on the motion. You called it "a review framework." You may, of course, use the letter as you wish, but I will prepare the letter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u547	Can I get a little more specific about that? In principle, the vote is scheduled for next Tuesday. We would appreciate it if the letter could be there by Friday before noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u548	I will make a great effort to that end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u549	Thank you. Were you done answering your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u550	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u551	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u552	Would any of the Members like to vote on the bill? There's some laughing, but the answer is yes. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. A roll-call vote has been requested. It's a second reading bill for a constitutional change. The draft law should therefore be accepted by at least two thirds of the number of votes cast in accordance with Article 137 (4) of the Constitution. Two motions have been tabled, but in view of the scope of the motion tabled by Mr Schalk cum suis, it seems to me that this motion should be voted on before voting on the legislative proposal. The Rombouts motion can be voted in the usual way after the vote on the legislative proposal. At least on the Schalk c.s. motion. The vote will therefore be taken in favour. Let me take a look at Mr Rombouts. Your motion may be voted on after the vote on the bill. Mrs. Huijbregts has something to say. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u553	Mr. Chairman. I think I know that some of our colleagues, some of us, will be here next week in connection with obligations arising from...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u554	The Parliamentary Assembly of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u555	Yeah, exactly. Since there is a roll-call vote, I wonder if it would not be wiser to postpone the vote than a week. That's an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u556	I'm looking around at the MPs. An order proposal has been made by the VVD Group to postpone the vote for a week next Tuesday due to the obligations of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, i.e. until 27 November. Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u557	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by saying that I fully understand Mrs Huijbregts' request, but the unfortunate thing is that during the course of the day I initially thought I had understood that there were no international obligations next week. In my boldness I have meanwhile made myself extremely unpopular in the group by consigning all my group members for next week, even though they have international obligations. So now is a really bad time for me. All kinds of arrangements have been made for this. So it would be very unfortunate to have to come back to that now. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to vote next week anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u558	Okay. So you can't reverse that, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u559	Actually, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u560	That makes this a dilemma. Then I'll look around again. I see Mrs Huijbregts looking in the sense of: well, okay, then so be it. Yes. Well, I guess that's the way it is. So next Tuesday is the roll-call vote on the bill. The question is whether a roll-call vote is also required on the motions for resolutions. I see Mrs Nooren nodding. No? Then let me ask you nicely: is there a roll-call vote on Mr Schalk's motion? Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u561	Madam President, thank you very much for that offer, but I will not take advantage of it as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u562	Okay, no roll call vote on Mr Schalk's motion. I suspect that the vote on Mr Rombouts' motion will not be taken by roll call either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u563	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-eerstekamer-4.u564	The vote will then be taken on the motions when they are sitting and getting up. There's a roll-call vote on the bill next week. Let me get this straight: next week, November 20th.
