ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security in Box K. I give the floor to Mrs Helder, on behalf of the PVV, for her question to the Minister about the report that the Public Prosecutor's Office has left thousands of promising cases. I call Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 2017 Annual Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office shows that almost all of the objectives have been met. But, Mr President, I would not be standing here if that were the essence of the annual report. I want to discuss the concerns that are unfortunately not new. First of all... The number of cases of cybercrime continues to increase. Second. Many things remain on the shelf, despite the fact that there are indeed detection indications. Third. Often a so-called short blow is enough, i.e. not everything is taken out of the closet to apprehend the criminals in, for example, large-scale drug trafficking, but only the so-called small fish are caught. Fourth. The Public Prosecutor has the idea that at the moment she has only a part of organized crime in view. The Minister is about to reply with certainty that the cabinet has made additional funds available. 95 million for dealing with cybercrime, but distributed across various departments, not just for the Public Prosecutor's Office, and 154 million for the police this year. But, Mr. Chairman, not only me, the D.A. itself is saying that this isn't enough. I quote from the press release: "These investments do not compensate for previous and ongoing cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office." I have only one question for the Minister. Why didn't the Spring Note give extra money to the police and the D.A.?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Helder for raising this issue. I think it's good to reflect today on the 2017 Public Prosecutor's Annual Report, which was published last week. The message was mostly positive. The D.A., the D.A.'s office, almost all of its objectives were met in 2017. In fact, they were often above the norm, as in the fight against criminal cooperation. At the same time, the Public Prosecutor's Office notes that the work has become more diverse and complex in recent years. For the purpose of addressing certain related issues identified by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Cabinet makes additional budget available, enabling the Public Prosecutor to invest in a targeted manner. Mr. Chairman. I sent your Chamber a letter in February on how to deal with undermining crime, which we also discussed in a recent general discussion. I would like to say to you that at the end of June I will inform the Chamber more about this. The cabinet has also made additional funds available for this purpose. The challenges facing detectives are diverse and extensive, if one also sees the annual report. On the one hand, this has to do with necessary improvements in the quality of minutes and on the other hand with organisational challenges to deal with big data and cybercrime. This requires a consistent and sustained approach to improve detection step by step. I sent a letter on this in March with a number of very concrete measures. I will also come to your Chamber in the autumn, as previously announced, with a development agenda. Concrete measures. Over the past period, a side-influx of specialists has taken place on cybercrime but also on financial and economic crime, the training of police intake staff has been strengthened and the quality of trial reports has been increased. All matters that also contribute to a more efficient and better way of working for the Public Prosecutor's Office. At least 180 FTE will be added to the investigation this year, as part of an initial tranche of 267 million additional investments. By the way, the remaining parts of the 267 million will be translated into capacity expansion, especially for detection. Furthermore, it is good to know that I have already informed your Chamber that I have taken the initiative to set up an external advisory committee to remove unnecessary administrative burdens in the investigation. At least that advisory committee will start work before the summer. It is very important that this committee not only gets an abstract purpose, as I also discussed in the debate with your Chamber, but that the effects of the committee's work will actually end up in the workplace. As far as the scope of the criminal investigation is concerned, the public prosecutor is the responsible authority. There too, I cannot and will not enter as a minister. There will always be a tension field between available capacity and issues that can potentially be picked up. As has been said, the cabinet is investing in this precisely in order to increase capacity and improve opportunities in the area of digital detection, for example. But it is up to the competent authorities to consider it. Finally. Why not get money for the D.A.'s office and the police on the spring note? The decision-making process has not yet been completed, so I cannot say anything about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	I've been doing this file for almost eight years. Well, then you've got some insider knowledge. They are all very nice words, I thank the Minister for that. We always hear about dealing with criminal partnerships, but that doesn't mean that people have been convicted. That's one. We often talk about the clarification rates. That means a suspect is only in the picture, which doesn't mean a conviction. People outside, people who report it, they experience it quite differently. I hear the Minister say: at the end of June I come up with a plan to tackle undermining crime. We have often talked about an undermining fund: structuralally, money is taken away at local level in such a fund, so that the mayors and, for example, the task force in the South of the Netherlands can get back to work on it. Giving stolen money back to society, which pays off, that's what people see. A consistent approach, I agree with the Minister. I hear the Minister saying "step by step," but it's going very slowly. That first tranche of 267 million has been released, that's right. But in politics you should never be too happy: you never know if the second tranche will go ahead. I would like to express a firm doubt about this. The Minister says that there will always be a tension between money and capacity, but after years it will become an almost unbridgeable gap. My group really does not think that this is enough. I hope, however, that the Minister will come up with a little more money on the gap that might still be bridged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	The money that has been taken away goes, as I said at the time of my arrival, to the general funds, and that ultimately brings it back to society. I should not fall into my entire first term, but I said that in June I would come up with a follow-up letter on my plan of action undermining. I presented that plan of action undermining. It is good to consider this question today, to show that the public prosecutor is simply achieving more than his objectives. Of course, there can be capacity. That is what this cabinet is doing, and we need to continue with each other in an even better way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	Rounding up. It lingers in fine words: "the Public Prosecutor's Office has achieved almost all its objectives." But that's the same thing as the crime that's falling. What you focus on and where you put the money into, that's going to change, but a lot of things really stay on the shelf, unfortunately. I would like to conclude with that, but I promise that my group will remain firmly committed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I am going to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	I think the D.A. has presented a fine year's report. But of that one sentence in the article in Trouw I lie a little awake: "The Public Prosecutor has the explicit idea that at the moment only a small part of organized crime is in the picture." Recent reports have shown that crime is falling or that crime is not falling. Can the Minister explain to me again how he gives us and Dutch society an adequate picture of this? Is the fight against crime going in the right direction in the Netherlands, or is it not going in the right direction? How, in particular, can the prosecution and the police get a good picture of the crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	We have, of course, a number of monitors in which the figures come back. Mr Van Dam knows it. The Chamber and I have already exchanged views which, of course, can clearly be seen that the high-impact crime is thinking of home invasions, thefts, robberies, etc. has really been substantially reduced in recent years. In the meantime, we are seeing the tendency for organised crime to become more and more cooperative in society. The approach to undermining very clearly mentions a number of concrete measures in the area of legislation, but also purely in the approach taken by the police, prosecutors and other services, to ensure that we take action against them. We will have to look in the coming years to see if we are going to have organized crime to an even greater extent than it is now, yes, what shall I call it? Get it under the thumb, get it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	I do believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office has achieved good results, often under difficult circumstances. In my opinion, they are quite right to write that things are becoming more complex and more and more real. There is, in fact, a cry of hearts in the annual report, namely: "The forecast model on which funding is ultimately based does not really reflect that reality." My question to the Minister is short and good: how does he tackle this challenge? How is he going to ensure that the forecasting model and funding of the Public Prosecutor's Office will remain in order in the future with increasingly complex and more effective matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	This is an excellent point on which I would also like to talk to the College. I would like to look with the college at exactly what problems are seen in the current forecasting model. If we find together that the prognosis model for the Public Prosecutor's Office would no longer be entirely adequate, I will certainly come back to that, not only with the Public Prosecutor's Office but also with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	Last week I read an article in the newspaper of the North about a criminal case that was stopped because there would be planning problems at the state's attorney's office. If I combine this with reports from the Court of Auditors on substantial work stocks, in order to put it positively at the Office's office, which were also published last week in a briefing in the Lower House, then I think that is sufficient reason to discuss this issue with the Minister, for example, next week in the annual report and the final law. But I do need answers to those questions. I would also like a little more direction: how will the Minister resolve this and will he not wait until the autumn? My question is: will the Minister undertake to send a letter to the Chamber there next week, when that is WHO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	I'd like to promise you to come up with a letter, but I don't know if I can do that in a week. I can't promise that right now. I will discuss this with the Public Prosecutor's Office, but I would like to say that we are committed to sending such a letter to the Chamber before recess. At least that's what I want to promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	This minister, as a child, has fallen into the cauldron of the rule of law, but he is faced with eight years of VVD policy here. And where are we? Thousands of potential cases remain on the shelf, so if you're gonna report a crime as a victim, chances are pretty good nothing's gonna happen to it. A lot of criminals go free. Today, lawyers are still out there demonstrating in the square because a lot of people can't get their rights. Eight years of VVD policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	And the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	What does the Minister say about the state of the rule of law? What does the Minister say about eight years of VVD policy? What is this Minister going to do very concretely to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	Let me be very clear about that. I would therefore also like to have a brief debate with you today on the annual report. The annual report is largely positive, because the public prosecutor has just achieved almost all of his objectives. In a number of cases, it's even above it. I'm just gonna say it again anyway. Of course, it is a good thing to note that much more could actually be done. That is precisely why this cabinet invests in the investigation, in the prosecution, in the police, in dealing with cybercrime and organised crime. Then I am someone who thinks that we should look forward to the policy now being deported by the cabinet, you and I, so the Chamber and I should look forward. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you.
