ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u1	We continue with the amendment of the Study Finance Act 2000 in connection with a change in the interest rate rate for the loan higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u2	We've come to the Minister's answer. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. Today we are discussing the change in the interest rate rate rate on student loans in higher education agreed in the government agreement. I noticed that there was a lot of talk this morning about the lending system as such. But I want to confine myself to the bill I have tabled and what I am defending here. Where students now receive the 5-year interest rate, this will in future be the 10-year interest rate. This bill will regulate nothing more and nothing less than that. Although I can't predict interest rates, I do know that the 10-year rate is almost always slightly higher than the 5-year rate. This measure will contribute to the sustainability of public finances by 2025 and thus contribute positively to the sustainability of public finances. In my opinion, Mr Van der Molen also said it very well: this contributes to more solid public finances. Yeah, that's important, too. It does not flow directly into the budget of the Ministry of Education, but sound public finances are also good for education. We do not have to go back so far in the past to see that problems in the whole of public finances are falling down, mostly in my ministry, because we have a large share of the state budget. This coalition agreement also covered a considerable gap in the budget. Yes, I would also have preferred that we could have used that money in a different way for the quality of higher education, but that is what you get when there are problems at some point in the total of those national finances. In this sense, I think it is justified to ask for a contribution to sound public finances in this way. I hope no one here is against sound public finances. One question that, of course, came along regularly is: why do students have to contribute to this? The good news is that students don't have to, because they're not the ones who're gonna pay for it. The higher interest rate will soon be paid by people who, thanks to quality training in our higher education, can earn a good income and, in proportion to that income, contribute to the payment of that loan. That's how we arranged it, because that's the beauty of the social loan system we have: you pay back up to 4% of your income above the minimum wage. Again, this bill does not change anything. Mr. Chairman. There were quite a few questions and comments about the effects and effects on the monthly expenses. I've heard questions and concerns about that. Let me try to take it away again by putting some things together. Predicted: there is no change at all, but nothing at all for students who are already studying. Let us make this very clear, because sometimes I see communication coming along where that is not very clear. For students who are already studying, nothing changes, even if they are paying off in 30 years' time. For those students, nothing changes at all. Nor does anything change for people who have already graduated, but are still paying back. For those individuals, too, nothing changes at all. Things are only going to change for students who start training in higher education in 2020. For that group, something's gonna change with this law. This may have consequences for what they are going to repay. I say "possible" because it doesn't affect all those students. Take someone with an average debt of €21,000 and an annual income of €40,000. In that case, there will be no change in the amounts to be repaid. With the current interest rate measure, the amount will be about €65 and it will remain that way. This is the result of the very social conditions that exist in that loan system. We are not just looking at the debt and the interest that applies, but certainly also at the income. It protects former students from too high a monthly burden. What if a person doesn't make 40,000 but more? I believe that Mr Futselaar had a number of questions about this. In this case, the monthly amount can be increased to €12, i.e. an increase from €70 to €82. For example, a smaller debt of €5,000 represents an increase of €3 per month. Now, in his first term, I found Mr Futselaar to be a little sharp about the way in which I would have informed the Chamber. Let me return this to Mr Futselaar. In the first written round with the Chamber, a number of Members asked questions about the monthly amounts. Mr Futselaar was not there. We then, as it is very common, took categories: low, middle and high. That's not unusual at all. You will receive the information on every monthly income you wish to ask me about, but do not now pretend that I have deliberately withheld certain amounts. I don't think that's fair. So be honest and say: I didn't ask for that in the first round at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr Futselaar is standing by the interrupting microphone. The Minister would first make an introduction. It's ready now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few general comments on accessibility and then I would like to address the various questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u6	Then I give the floor to Mr Futselaar, because he is a little angry, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u7	I think the minister's just answering. I have questions about the shelf life that came back to the issue of "" and I was just addressed immediately and I want to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u8	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u9	I would also like to respond to the amounts that have just been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u10	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u11	I'll start at the beginning. I found it interesting what the Minister said about the sustainability of the state finances. Indeed, the legislative proposal states that it focuses on the sustainability of the study funding system and the state finances. In reply to this question, the Minister only talks about the state finances. Can I draw your attention to the fact that the argument that the loan system should be made more sustainable is thus out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u12	The total amount of student loans that we are about to receive is a relevant amount. The interest paid on these student loans is now being brought closer to the maturity of the loan. That's actually a very common system. And yes, this contributes to the sustainability of the loan system and thus to the sustainability of public finances. Those two do hang out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u13	Can the Minister give some indication of the problem that would arise with the loan system, the sustainability problem, if this measure were not to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u14	You can see that in the coalition agreement. You will see the amounts generated by this measure in the future and that is exactly the amount estimated according to the usual estimate by the CPB of what such a measure contributes. That's the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u15	Surely you cannot say: we are seeing a sustainability problem, we are not saying how big it is, but we do have a solution, and that is what this means? You must first determine the size of the problem, before you say: this is the amount we are going to correct it with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u16	It's about the system. The calculation of the loan system was based on an interest rate of about 2.5%. We're at 0% now. The two-and-a-half. We're way below that even now with the 10-year interest rate. In the logic of sustainability, one can do 35 years about repaying those loans. The system, and with it public finances, makes you more solid if you bring those two closer together. The reasoning is no more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u17	Nor do I deny that the reasoning is not complicated. I do not think the reasoning is correct. I would like to go back to the amounts and the discussion I have with the Minister on the level of information. For example, the Minister is right to say that someone who has €40,000 in income and €21,000 in debt does not pay extra interest. But if that debt is half of that, $11,000, the same person will pay extra interest: an amount from my head of about €2,500. That is exactly the kind of information we could not get from that first written round. I think it is actually part of the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. That is basic information about the drafting of this bill. Then I am rather angry about the level of information we have been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u18	If you would have liked that in the explanatory statement, I am all the more surprised that you did not ask for it in the first round of written questions. Others did. If you wanted to know exactly that for every income at €1,000, you could have gotten that information from me. I think it makes a lot of sense. The Government shall submit an explanatory statement to explain a legislative proposal. It is not self-evident that all the effects on all incomes are immediately passed on. But if asked, of course we are prepared to give that for every income. That's how we've done it with every question that's been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u19	The Minister's explanation is correct. I just want to give her what this can have, because it means that we, as opposition parties, will soon have to ask the seas and seas of specific questions on this kind of proposal because we want to know what it is at €41.000, at €42.000 and at €43.000. Apparently, that is the only way to ensure that we get that information, because the cabinet does not seem to want to give information, information that is quite important, without being explicitly asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u20	Once again, we have motivated the proposal. For example, D66 asked for the effects in the first written round. We have done this according to a very common system for low, middle and high incomes with low, medium and high debt. You were obviously not so surprised that this was not in the explanatory statement that it gave you the opportunity to ask questions about it. I do not think it is very strange that we do not say immediately but report all these effects for every income rounded up to €1,000. This gave a reasonable picture of what it means. I think that was very insightful for everyone, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u21	'A reasonable picture' is a description of this information which I leave entirely on the Minister's behalf. Just so we're clear, in the second round of writing, I asked what it costs students exactly. And in the third written round, I did ask for specific amounts, just not as good as Mrs Westerveld, who came up with some more specific amounts. That was obviously necessary, I say again, to get that information up and running. My judgment on this matter does not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u22	We all like sound public finances. That's our core business, I'll say. Now, of course, Dutch students are kept to repay those loans. At the moment we have 122,000 students from abroad, most of whom are just as entitled to these student loans as Dutch students. What is the expectation when it comes to the tens of thousands of Germans, Poland, Romanians and Bulgarians who will soon be moving and can no longer be found? How's the Minister handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u23	This was an expected question from Mr Bertema. Let me start by saying that about a quarter of the international students who come to the Netherlands will stay here as well. This is extremely good for the Dutch economy; they contribute extremely much to the Dutch economy. But that aside. Of the students from the EEA who study in the Netherlands, only a very small proportion also receive study funding in the Netherlands. They only get them under conditions. They get that if they work at least a number of hours in the Netherlands and are admitted to higher education or MBO, or such a student has to live here for more than five years. So there are certainly restrictions to it. We cannot say at the moment how we are about to pay back. Within this scheme, there are no students yet to pay back. We also have very short experience of the social loan system. But we are going to monitor this closely, and if there are any concerns about it, we will certainly see how we keep its inability. This is a very small proportion of the number of students. So you should not suggest that this bill is a result of the fact that students from Europe are studying in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u24	It's a little silly what the minister's doing now, with the sidelines and all that. We have talked about this a long time ago. We are talking about a bill that will have consequences over a period of 35 years. It's already been changed in the first term with the Chamber. I understand now that there is no concern at the Minister's about paying back. She's playing it down; it's gonna be okay. Am I saying that right? But if such problems are to arise over the next few decades, we will have to write off large sums of money. My question is how large these amounts are. Is there an estimate of that? Has that happened yet? It's gonna be a lot of money. How are these losses compensated? Are they compensated here in the Netherlands with a higher interest rate, for example? Are they passed on to the Dutch population? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u25	Just for the sake of clarity, the question of how foreign student debt will soon be in check, there is no systematic difference between the situation with this bill or without this bill. So I assume you asked these questions when the loan system was introduced, because that was also the subject at the time. It is now too early to say that it is not transferable and that we therefore have a major problem there. We still need to see that. Yes, we constantly look with DUO at the system of foreign debt. This is not only about non-Dutch people who have study funding here, it is also about Dutch people who move abroad and are sometimes difficult to trace, which makes debt difficult to absorb. But we still believe that international mobility is a good thing, and we are on top of it with DUO to see how we can ensure that all these debts are contained. It is still too early to say how big that problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u26	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u27	I'm sure that's too early to say. What is not too early to say is how the debts that will then be written off will be recovered to the Dutch citizen. The money has to come from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u28	That's the amount that won't come back. That is what does not come back to public finances. But let me just say to Mr Beertema that this is just as much about Dutch citizens moving abroad. The same issues are involved: how do we collect debts from people who no longer live in the Netherlands? With DUO we are always looking at how we can find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u29	Then I will go to Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u30	I would like to add my voice to Mr Beertema's questions, because the CDA Group has also asked questions about the inability of foreign students' student loans on this point. I agree with the Minister: is also irrecoverable in the Netherlands. So we shouldn't pretend those groups are opposite each other. I agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u31	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u32	However, it is so that in the answer you also indicated to...... that it is easier for DUO to collect here under Dutch law than abroad. Now I am aware that Denmark has the same kind of situation and actually wants to argue that the rules should be aligned at European level, so that this can be easier. Is the Minister prepared to join Denmark's argument and see if we can achieve a level playing field in Europe so that we can give this money a better chance of coming back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u33	I am certainly prepared to look not only with the Danes, but also with other European colleagues at how we can take care of it together. I am thinking of the former students who move from one country to another and perhaps go back to the country they come from or Dutch students who move to another European country, that everyone can maintain their system and that debt can be recovered. With DUO I also look at business cases: how can we possibly invest a little in front to make sure that payment stays good in the long term? But I am certainly prepared to discuss this at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u34	I am going to try to make this debate a win-win. I see a coalition saying it might be a bad bill, but we're doing it anyway. The cabinet, the minister, may also be concerned. The opposition shouts "boo!'. And we're all going home. It could be. That would be a predictable debate. We can do it differently, because we have a proposal in which we say: do not do this. The Minister is right when she says that costs us money. So that's what we have to pay for. Our proposal is: let us then finance it through the people above the beaming standard who use an expat scheme. So you're really talking about the very high incomes. Can we find each other in that? Because then we can finish the debate, then we can withdraw the bill and then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u35	I don't think you should be entirely with me. I believe that the coverage of your proposal has been in this Chamber before and has been in tune. So, yes, you know what I'm going to say about an amendment with inadequate coverage. I can never be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u36	The students are angry, and I think they're right. The coalition's in the stomach with it. The opposition is also angry. You're damn right I didn't. So I'm just gonna make the proposal one more time, because, yeah, the full-bodied wins, will win one more time. And maybe today. I hear here "the keeper."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u37	So is the perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u38	Yeah, "full-time" could be. So I call on the Minister and the Cabinet to really look into that. Because in itself, such a solidarityary expat scheme, for those very high incomes: they no longer need that subsidy. That's a good cover. We'll work it out, and then we'll all go home happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u39	I simply note that you have not been able to convince your colleagues in the Chamber about that coverage. Then you can hold on, but in this case the perseverance won't win. I'm sorry. I can't make it any better for you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u40	No. Then I suggest you continue your argument. You had actually just begun, but a lot of questions have been asked in between. So that'll help later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u41	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That's gonna save you from the sequel. Mr. Chairman. They also asked what this would do to the accessibility of higher education. We estimate that there will be little or no impact on this accessibility. Mrs Westerveld was, of course, right when she said that we need several more years to really look at the effects of the loan system as a whole on accessibility. We can only see, as the monitor shows, that the inflow is back at the level of prior to the introduction of the loan system after just a dip. I think it was Mr Futselaar who said that before the introduction of the loan system at the MBO you saw a declining trend in the flow. Actually, we're just back on that trend. Especially now I can imagine that MBOs, for which the labour market perspective is very favourable, will be able to work with an excellent degree. You also know that I am extremely committed to facilitating the flow from MBO to HBO. Moreover, we are going to discuss this further in terms of accessibility and equality of opportunity, on which I have sent a letter to the Chamber. Why are we making that assessment in terms of accessibility? Firstly, students will of course not have to pay back anything during their studies. That is really only when they have graduated and when they work and earn a good income. That is what the system is very social in and that is how we keep it accessible. Overall, I say that we have a very nice and social funding system. The social conditions of the system remain unaffected. It is precisely because it is so well arranged at the time that I should like to congratulate those who worked for that 4% maximum repayment capacity. This means that, with the increase in this interest rate, it will never become too heavy a burden for people who have graduated once. I now turn to a number of specific questions that have been asked. Mr Futselaar has asked how we can predict the 226 million. That has to do with parameters we use. Indeed, these parameters are always accompanied by uncertainty. It's called windows. Windows are always accompanied by a certain degree of uncertainty, but this has been validated by the Central Planning Bureau. In my view, it is a very common system of budgets that we make an estimate on the basis of a number of parameters and that we have it validated by the Central Planning Bureau. That's how we got to that amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'm going to go back, because the Minister's introduction went very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u43	Well, that's not so bad. It didn't go very fast, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u44	The introduction went very quickly because a lot of questions have been asked about the why of this measure. The Minister once again said, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, that this is done in order to put public finances in order. We specifically asked why the Minister felt that public finances should be put in order by removing this money from students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u45	You say two things that don't add up. The first is the need to put public finances in order. I never said it like that. All I have said is that the sustainability can be improved in this way. That's really something else. You also say students have to pay for it. No, students don't have to pay for this. Graduates pay that through a whole social refund scheme, which you yourself have been working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u46	I will use the word "graduates" then now, although it is, of course, the students who, when they have graduated, suffer from it. As regards the sustainability of public finances or the sustainability of this system, which is also the subject of the explanatory statement, the following: The Minister also says that the system is in principle sustainable, but that this is an additional measure to make the system even more sustainable. And I would like to ask the Minister: why is this particular measure necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u47	Look, here's what's been done. We are talking about very long-term loans here. There is also a certain logic in using the 10-year interest rate. When GroenLinks was sitting at the table of the credit system, you took into account an interest rate of 2.5%. Even now, with the 10-year interest rate, we are still well below that. So don't suddenly pretend that this is a burden that you say 'that doesn't make the system social anymore', because when we introduced it with your support at the time, you took into account higher interest rates. So, frankly, I don't understand your objections at all. What I also have a bit of a problem with is that you keep saying: less accessible and heavy burdens for students. If you'd stop using those terms, we wouldn't frighten students unnecessarily. They will never have to contribute more than 4% of their future income to this measure, even with an increase in interest rates. And yes, it may also be good for the future budget of Education, so that we can continue to invest in the quality of higher education in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u48	I think this is a rather strange figure, because first of all I do not believe that in my speech I scared students somewhere. Secondly, I find it striking what the Minister says. We are here to discuss this proposal, namely the increase in interest rates. And the Minister is going to blame GroenLinks and me for signing under the loan system at the time. Just to stick to this bill, here's what. The Minister also indicated that GroenLinks did not sign up to raise the interest rate. Nor did we sign the fact that pre-investments did not fall into the quality of education. So I would like to ask the Minister: why are the promises that have been made already, after a few years, being broken? And that is not only because these institutions are not investing enough, but also by increasing interest rates now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u49	I say it again: at the time, when the system was introduced, account was taken of the fact that all the calculations were based on a rate of 2.5%. Also with the ten-year interest rate we are still under. So don't talk to me about broken promises, because at the time an interest rate was taken into account that was higher than what the cabinet is proposing; that is what the system was based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr. Chairman. Mr Futselaar also had some questions. What exactly is the interest rate subsidy granted? We can't quantify that exactly. The Empire finances the sovereign debt in its entirety. We cannot look separately at the funding that lies with which underlying components. We can't do that for any part where things are financed. If I'm just looking at some numbers, I can say the following right now. The Empire is expected to pay around 6.3 billion in fixed debt interest payments in 2018, which amounts to around 276 billion. In doing so, it pays an interest rate of about 2.3% overall. This is thus significantly higher than the 0% interest rate that students are currently paying. And what we see, and that's also where that term "interest subsidy" comes from, is that students have a very long-term loan with very low interest rates, whereas with such a long-term loan there is often an interest rate that is slightly higher. In this sense, there is always a certain interest rate subsidy. That will continue to be the case in the future. Mr Futselaar also asked why we used an average study debt of €21,000 in the calculation of interest income, whereas we actually indicated that below the 10-year rate that average study debt rises to €21,500. We took that into account in the calculation of interest income. The increase in interest rate rates has been taken into account. Mr Futselaar also asked: if, for example, ten-year interest rates reach 7%, will that 4% limit be discussed? No, that's one of the social refund conditions in the system, and that's not up for discussion here. Let me be very clear about that. Mrs Westerveld has asked whether the 35-year term is under discussion. No, and I don't think we should. There were a few parameters in that system that were very decisive. That is the 4%, that is the 35 years that also means that we can invest substantial money in the quality of education. Those are the proceeds. Mr Futselaar also made the critical remark in my direction that I would not have used the right words when passing from MBO to HBO. On page 11 of the monitor policy measures it is also stated that the loan version is not a decisive reason for choosing not to study. Students are more guided by the labour market perspective and the advice of their parents. Of course, we will continue to monitor in the future which factors affect us. That monitor consists of about 230 pages of tables. If there are any questions about that from your Chamber, we will of course be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u52	The monitor says: you have a group that studies anyway; there is no loan version. You have a group of students who aren't going to study. There too, the loan version doesn't matter. I'd almost say weedy. But it is precisely with the doubters that the loan version plays a role. That's just described on page 58, out of my head, there's something about it down the road. It's in that policy monitor. If, in reply to the written questions, the Minister says very clearly that there is no connection, then I do object. And then I get sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u53	I said it wasn't a decisive reason. That's what it says. Of course, when people doubt, you look at the whole thing. That is why I believe that we are all doing well to continue to stress that the social conditions of the loan system are in place. They remain as they were and the current bill does not affect those conditions. It is therefore not paid by the students, but only by graduates depending on their income.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u54	Then I have to correct the Minister again for facts, because I also object to the term 'graduates'. The loan system also applies to students who borrow, but do not graduate, who do not reach the end of their studies, who have to break up their studies for whatever reason. They still have to pay back. I think the term "graduates" is really wrong. I object to this as well as Mr Van Meenen, who jumps up when the word'students' is used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u55	But also for students who have not completed their studies, what they pay back is related to their income and never exceeds 4% of the statutory minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u56	That's correct. Only it doesn't apply only to graduates, and I'd like that corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u57	For those who are done studying. Mr Futselaar is right that no one has ever finished studying. We want everyone to develop for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u58	That's how it's solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u59	If we want to be precise! Mr Futselaar also had a question about lifelong learning credit. That follows the five-year interest rate. He asked, "So is it going to stay that way?" That remains the case, because lifelong learning credit is a 15-year grace period. That is where the logic lies with the five-year period. It therefore also depends on the payment period. Mr Futselaar also had the question of whether the research that we have carried out by RIVM on psychological pressure on students would include financial pressure. We take with us all the factors that can affect us. We expect this research in the spring, so we will certainly have a more detailed discussion about it. Mrs Westerveld asked me if we could introduce an interest rate ceiling. I would like to say to her: that is not necessary, because the ceiling for people is, of course, set individually, actually through the 4%, and the risk of an interest-rate ceiling is precisely that in times of high interest, maximum borrowing can become very lucrative. You could say, say, you have an interest rate ceiling of 2.5% and the actual interest rate is getting higher. Yes, then it becomes extremely attractive for students to, say, very disrespectful, play a bench. Then you're gonna borrow at 2.5% and you're gonna put it away somewhere else at a higher percentage. I think that's an effect we don't want. Nor does it seem sensible to me to shorten Mrs Westerveld's question every 35 years. Once again, in the balance that exists, of 4% of the population, I am sorry that it remains social for 35 years and that we have sufficient revenue to invest in the quality of higher education, that is all connected. If you're going to shorten that term, you're going to upset that balance. So I don't think that's a good idea. Moreover, today we are really only talking about raising interest rates. Mrs Westerveld also asked me if I could indicate whether students benefit from quicker redemption. Of course, it's always wise to pay off quickly if you can. But sometimes, and that's why we've taken those 35 years, that's not possible, because that would lead to high monthly expenses. And often people, especially in the rush hour of life, also have other concerns. But if you could do it individually, I'd always say I would. Mrs Westerveld and, in my view, Mrs Tielen asked questions about the rate of repayment of 86.4% that we are currently using. The question is whether we want to recalculate it. This percentage was calculated in 2014 by the CPB for the reimbursements under the study advance. The insights since then that have led to this percentage are still unchanged. And there are hardly any former students who are paying back, so we don't really have enough material to look at that again at the moment. If there is cause, we will, of course. In 2020, there will be a policy review of study funding and we will see if we should include this percentage, to see again whether all this is true. Mr Azarkan asked me if, in my opinion, I could explain the last article of the bill in ordinary language. That article, to which he refers, lays down that the interest rate rate on the lifelong learning loan is to be based on the five-year interest rate. That's actually what it says. That loan doesn't change anything either. The interest rate measure of lifelong learning credit, like that of the loan for higher education, is based on the interest rate received by the State when the State borrows on the capital market. The interest rate measure of the loan lifelong learning credit is more specifically based on the interest paid by the State when the State takes out a loan with a maturity of five years. The average interest rate over 12 months is used to avoid fluctuations. That is what is written in more technical terms in that article. I hope you can follow it now. Mr Azarkan also asked me the question: are you listening to the criticism of student organisations? Yes, I do, and I always take them extremely seriously. I'll talk to them at regular intervals. We also have the beautiful tradition of having dinner with each other occasionally, and then they cook for me. But listening to each other well doesn't mean that you always have to agree. And yes, I listened to them very carefully. If we continue to explain what is going on with this proposal, I think we can take away a lot of concerns. I think it was Mr Beertema who said something about the BKR. I think we should all be very clear about that: no, your student debts are not registered with BKR. And yes, your monthly expenses count for your mortgage. This was also the case with the introduction of the social loan system. But you also know that the weighting factor for mortgage charges has fallen considerably in the new system: from just over 7 to something like 4. I just lost the exact numbers. This also means that even under the social loan system it may be easier to get that mortgage, at least as far as the monthly burden is concerned, because the weighting factor is extremely high. On that point, let us simply provide the right information, about the good conditions of that system, and not put the megaphone once in a while on concerns that are being thrown into the world. Then I come to Mr Van Meenen's question about using a longer average. If I understood correctly, the question was: what does it mean if you took a longer average of interest? This has the disadvantage of reducing interest rates. Of course, that can work to someone's advantage, but it can certainly work to someone's disadvantage. For example, when the interest rate drops, you just sit longer with a higher interest rate. With rising interest rates, a longer average can lead to excessive borrowing, as you will be longer below current interest rates. It can work both ways, and that is why we are not in favour of it. Mr Van Meenen also asked whether the financial consequences of this proposal have taken into account the impact of previous repayment. That has been taken into account. The calculations were made on the basis of the structural study debt. In this calculation it is always assumed that there are students who pay off earlier. That was also the case in the previous calculations. A number of amendments have also been tabled, which I would like to address immediately, if you will allow it. Mr Futselaar has tabled an amendment to keep the interest rate on the 3- to 5-year interest rate for MBO students passing to HBO. This is, of course, an amendment that sounds very sympathetic, but apart from the question of whether it is technically feasible: it means that DUO must maintain two debts side by side with two different interest rates for the same person. Let me warn you: that is not very sensible in terms of implementation. It sounds sympathetic and, of course, it is always dependent on individual situations, but the three to five-year rate for MBO students, for example, is also linked to a number of other conditions, which are less attractive than the conditions for higher education. For example, the MBO student has to pay 12% above the minimum income. That goes to 4%. The weighting factor for the mortgage is also different. I'm not convinced it's gonna work out better for that MBO student. Moreover, it is not only for DUO, but also for individuals more transparent if you do so in one go. It sounds nice, but precisely because the conditions in the social loan system are so well regulated, my estimate is that he might be better off in the higher education system. An amendment that may sound even more sympathetic but which I must strongly advise against is that of Mr Azarkan to put the interest rate at zero. In view of the present legislative proposal, that is almost a destructive argument, as I think we call it here. It is precisely the opposite of what we intend to do with this legislative proposal. For that reason alone, I must advise against it. You have done your best to make a very sympathetic amendment, but I do not think that any student will be helped in the long run. I have already mentioned the amendment tabled by the Labour Party. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have answered the questions and comments raised in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u60	I had asked another question about the discount on the OV-kaart/Beter Benutten and what happens with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u61	We need the proceeds from Better Benutten in 2025. I know I told your room there would be a letter before Christmas. I'm not gonna make it. It is extremely complex and also legal. I really need a little more time to figure it out: what can be done here and what can't be done here? So that letter comes in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u62	I understand that, but of course this has something to do with each other. They're parts of the same arrangement that was made three years ago. Something's changing here. It would be extra harsh, let me put it this way if something changes on the other side. Should we not deal with this in conjunction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u63	No, I don't agree with you. This proposal deals with the resources that can be invested in the quality of higher education. We also have here until 2025. Just because I think it is an important subject, I would like to have a moment to find out in detail what can and cannot be done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u64	The Minister says that it is specifically about the use of these funds. Do I understand correctly that there will not be a look at a deterioration of the student card or other rights arising from the student travel product?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u65	I believe that there is an assignment for me to investigate how 200 million can be obtained from Better Benutten to invest in the quality of higher education. I'm working on that assignment. As soon as I know more about that, you will receive a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u66	I had asked another question about the use of the funds released as a result of the introduction of the loan system. I referred to the situation at the University of Amsterdam. The intention of the Chamber was precisely to let students talk about this, but you saw that the spending is ultimately determined by the driver on the one hand and the employee on the other. I have not yet received an answer from the Minister as to how she weighs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u67	I also read the article in Folia about how things went there. I conclude from that article that the whole participation is involved, but that ultimately the votes of the employees were decisive. That is a possibility inherent in participation. As you know, that is what we have set out in the quality agreements, the NVAO is going to look for me: is participation in all places going well, is this participation being complied with according to the agreed method and, even more important than that, are the resources of the study advance actually being invested in the quality of higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u68	I don't think the NVAO's gonna exactly check if everyone's been listened to. 'Cause she'll try to judge it remotely. And with that, the student's position has not been strengthened. So I can imagine that the Minister cannot immediately change what happened at the UVA from here on out. But the Minister advocated this precisely because of the involvement of students. So it can at least have an opinion on how desirable it is that students' wishes should ultimately be taken less into account than those of the other parties, who also have something to say about that agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr Van der Molen has understood very well how much I attach to the participation of students, but I do not think that we should have the interesting debate on this subject on the basis of an article in Folia. We have agreed that we are going to see how this participation takes shape. If there are any criticisms to be made, we are certainly going to have a debate on this. But you can expect me to be very critical of how this participation takes shape. There's more than one part of it in there. I assume that, for example, the ISO will keep me closely informed about how satisfied they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr President, I have asked quite a few questions that have not been answered, because in the 15 minutes I was talking, I asked more than three questions. I don't know what's handy. Do I have to fish them all out of my lyrics again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u71	I'd like you to read what questions they were for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u72	Well, I asked the Minister if she had a discussion with the coalition partners about the possible reopening of the coalition agreement, especially after the clear statement made by the CDA Congress. I asked the Minister if she could guarantee that the money released, including from the loan system, went to the quality of education. I have also asked her a number of questions about the pre-investments. I did ask about the interest rates. Are we assuming real calculations, because we also know from the 1990s that interest rates were much higher then? I'm browsing my text, Mr. Chairman. It is a bit clumsy to have to consider in your speech the questions you have asked, while I think I have made those questions quite clear. I also asked if the Minister could ask the CPB to look again at the plans. And I have also asked whether the Minister is prepared to agree that higher proceeds from the interest rate increase than is currently estimated can flow back to students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u73	I may not have attributed the answers to Mrs Westerveld in this way, but I think I have dealt with most of the points. I also said at the beginning: this is a debate on a bill on increasing interest rates. You are now going to ask me about the pre-investments. I have already said at the beginning of this debate: I do not think it is appropriate to re-examine the debate on this subject, which we have had in detail here. The same applies to very general questions about this loan system. In my view, we really need to stick to the debate on increasing interest rates. Did I have a meeting? I assume you mean have I consulted with the coalition on the occasion of the CDA Congress. No, that's not the case. No one has asked me to hold the debate on this. There is an agreement in the coalition agreement that this bill is the result of. That is what I have submitted to your Chamber, and that is what we are debating here. Do I want the CPB to look again at the effect of that refund and that 86.4%, or something in that order of magnitude? I said that we will do so in the policy review by 2020. There is no reason at the moment to look at these parameters again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u74	It seems to me to be the place to talk about, for example, those pre-investments. I have followed the debate on this subject. Following that debate, the General Court found that the responsibility for 2018 does not seem to be in order either. It seems to me that this debate is a logical place to ask again what is going on with the pre-investments. Do students benefit from the promise made that more money would be invested to keep the quality of education accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u75	We have had extensive debates here on these pre-investments, and I have also explained in detail how we deal with the debate on this at universities and what I am going to do when university boards and participations disagree on whether or not there has been sufficient pre-investment. We have had that debate. I have laid down a clear line on this and we shall come back to that when we report on it. But I do not understand why we should be having that debate again here. It was a clear debate when it came to increasing interest rates, because these are two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u76	But it's not just about the debate about the pre-investment then, is it? It is precisely the outcome of that debate and the results of the Court of Auditors that are at stake. They were devastating: those pre-investments had not happened. We're talking about this government's credibility, about the student's psychology. I am very angry that you are blaming us for not being too critical of your plans because with that criticism we would get the students not to study, as if we were scaring them. But it's exactly the other way around, I'd like to hand over the minister. The Minister promised that these pre-investments would come. That was the cloth for bleeding for the students who had to take those student loans. None of that worked out. You're totally unbelievable to those students. You shouldn't blame us for that. You should look in the mirror, look at yourself, and also say that this increase in interest rate rate is coming to the students exactly that way. You're the unreliable government for all these students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u77	Perhaps just for the record: in the previous period, well before my arrival, pre-investments were agreed. The Court of Auditors has indeed written a critical report on this. We have had a debate on this and I have indicated how we deal with it in order to ensure that we look at what has been invested and what has not. As a minister, I myself have made very clear agreements on how we deal with the study advance funds and how they should be invested in the quality of education. We have made good agreements on this and I keep it very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yes, because that should simply return completely to the quality of education; that was the bottomline. I have another question. We have just had the debate with the Minister about what it is worth to make those loans less attractive, the 226 million. Is the Minister prepared to allow them to return to education? Because now it's going back to the state treasury, it's gone. Can't we just figure out a way in? We're probably not gonna agree on this law, it's a bad law, but can't we say that the outcome is that the savings come back in education? Maybe that would be the hand-off where we can find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u79	The system is so structured that what is earned back on those loans comes to the Ministry of Finance. This contributes to sound public finances, which is also good for the budget of OCW. I do not have to tell you that this coalition found a further 440 million in the budget of OCW. This had to do with the total public finances that were out of order, much of which then fell down at OCW. So also along the route of finance, it is extremely good for the ministry of OCW to ensure that it is in order, because we have such a large share in these public finances. That's the deal we made in the coalition agreement, and I wanted to keep it. That's good for education, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u80	And not good for the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u81	You can argue about that, but I'd rather not have found that 440 million hole. Then we could have invested all that money in the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u82	I would like to remind the Minister that the previous cabinet had to cut billions to create the starting position that this minister is now in, in which she can invest. She chooses to cut down on students and the cabinet chooses to put it away mainly from large companies. I would like to discuss the previous and the current cabinet, but I would point out that this measure is bad for students and that you could at least return the savings to the Ministry of Education, to the education itself. For this really is the Minister of Finance who speaks and not the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u83	This is the cabinet speaking. That always speaks with one mouth. I think it is only a compliment to the cabinet that we succeed so well that you see me as the Minister of Finance. Again, don't tell me that students are being cut back. No, the interest rate measure will be changed, which will soon be paid by those people who are no longer studying. I see Mr Futselaar already looking at it when they have enough income to pay it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Futselaar, I see you're having a bit of a hard time finishing this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u85	Well, we can go on with this for days. But I would like to make a small point of order. Because the Minister rightly said at the beginning of her reply that she does not always want to talk about the loan system here, but about the legislative proposal before us. But in her defense, she keeps saying "you shouldn't have approved the loan system," or "you shouldn't have left such a hole for me." I don't think that's fancy, and I want that said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u86	You've made your point. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I'll start with you, Mr. Futselaar. I think it's a good thing you're just taking the time you need. Because if I am going to fill in one third of the speaking time for all the speakers, you are going to talk it over. I know you guys. So... Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. Chairman. A short motion, a question and then a final statement. The motion concerns what has just been changed about the cuts that are hanging over Better Benutten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a further 200 million savings to be made on OS student card/Better Benutten;]] [[points out that the impact should not lead to any deterioration of the conditions of the student card,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. There's one more question I'm asking the Minister. We've had a lot of exchanges and I've talked a lot about interest subsidies. When the Minister talked about it, my interruptions were over. What is still going on at the moment is a confirmation that the loans that the government is currently closing on the capital market through government bonds, which were issued this year, last year and next year, are and will be concluded at interest rates lower than the ten-year interest rate that we are now threatening to ask of students. Given Mrs Tielen van de VVD's comment, who also thinks that it would not be acceptable for us to make a profit on the system, I would like to know what the Minister will do if that proves to be the case, so if the government itself lends money for lower interest rates than she lends to students. Can we at least receive a letter on that? In conclusion, there is a great deal of reason to think that the consequences of this proposal are bad. We can discuss that. To be honest, however, I find the lack of cause for this proposal much more serious. Even when I have listened to the Minister: I find her story a bit disenchanting. She says: this is good for the sustainability of public finances in general. Because yes, it is sometimes under pressure and then it is nice to have 226 million extra in 2060. I think that is a very limited basis for a rather far-reaching proposal. I would like to present the following to the coalition parties. If, because of your coalition agreement and your agreements, you are bound by the proposal, at least ask the Minister to take it back and send it back to the Chamber properly and thoroughly, so that we can treat it seriously. If not, I will probably be forced to go to the First Chamber with my objections, where they may occasionally look a little more critically at matters such as reasons and justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Futselaar's last words, because after this debate, the confusion in our group has only increased, after we have tried several times through written rounds of questions and in all kinds of other ways to clarify what is the reason for this proposal, what it solves and what the consequences are for former students. Nor does the reasoning of the coalition parties become much clearer. Coalition Party ChristianUnion is not here. Of course, it is understandable if you are a small group, but there is less understanding for the fact that group chairman Segers gives a major interview a week and a half ago on the study burden of students, young people, who hang around their necks like a millstone, even though it is in the Christian Union election programme. Then there was also confusion about the VVD, which motivates the proposal by saying that otherwise there is a future gap. We heard Mrs Tielen literally say: if interest rates are not adjusted, this will lead to a large deficit in the OCW budget. But the VVD can't explain how big that hole is and how it got there. We looked back for it during the break, but the Minister does not talk about a gap if the current interest rate is continued. In fact, the minister writes that she considers it impossible to tell how much interest the government pays on student loans. From D66 we heard it's not their favorite measure. The CDA thinks high interest rates protect current students. I liked that one, too. First, the CDA ignores a resolution by its own young people and then Mr Van der Molen tells the young people of the CDA that they really shouldn't borrow for fun things but only for the most necessary things, and that it is therefore necessary to raise interest rates. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the interest rate on government bonds affects the interest rate on the study debt;]] [[noting that interest rates on government bonds have been historically low over the past ten years, knowing 1.78% for the five-year interest rate and 2.56% for the ten-year interest rate;]] [[Considering that in recent decades the ten-year interest rate fluctuated enormously to an average of 6.90% in the 1990s;]] [[noting that the proposed interest rate increase up to at least the year 2060 affects the debt burden of former students;]] [[whereas interest rates on government bonds are likely to increase over the next 35 years;]] [[Whereas a significant increase can cause many problems for former students and already creates uncertainty for current students;]] [[calls on the Government to set a maximum interest rate ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that this cabinet changes the interest rate on student loans to the ten-year interest rate on government bonds;]] [[noting that, as a result of this change, an average study loan is estimated to increase by net €5,000 over the entire 35-year discharge period;]] [[noting that former students have lost more money to higher interest charges over a longer period of time;]] [[calls on the government to examine the income effects for former students if the release period is shortened to, for example, 25 years on equal terms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Futselaar, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Beertema and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-14]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Azarkan and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u91	I couldn't follow the essence of this motion so quickly. What is GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u92	We propose that the effects be investigated when we shorten the 35-year discharge period to 25 years. What does that mean for the relief of former students?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u93	May I ask why GroenLinks proposes that? Is that a wish, so the monthly expenses go up? Because, of course, we can predict that. What's the idea behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u94	That is a logical question from Mr Van Meenen. Now we find that the people who need to make more effort to pay it off run into a student debt for 35 years. I could imagine you shortening that term to 25 years. Those who have difficulty in redeeming will suffer ten years less from a high rate of study. That's the idea behind it. We ask in the motion for a resolution to examine this idea carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr Van der Molen also has a question on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u96	In the debate we are having today, you say that the increase in interest rates increases the monthly amount by which you have to pay back by a number of euros. You don't like that. You will then submit a motion in which you say: we will ensure that the total amount of debt has to be repaid in a shorter period. Well, guess what that's gonna do with that month's pay. Can you explain that to me? That amount goes up considerably if you shorten that period by ten years. Even an opponent of the loan system can see the logic of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u97	Of course, we've agreed on a maximum percentage that people pay off. This motion doesn't touch on that, but only asks to investigate what it means if you don't let people pay off a student debt for 35 years, but shortens that term to 25 years. I could therefore very well imagine that this motion calls for a reduction in the number of students who do not pay back after 25 years. It is precisely the people who have lower incomes who have less than ten years that have a high student debt. The idea is to examine that carefully. That's what this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u98	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u99	Once again, those lower incomes yes, now I have to be defender of the loan system to be spared in all those constructions! That's not gonna help you at all. All you're doing is trying to reduce what you once put forward as a supporter of the loan system as the achievement of GroenLinks, because with those 35 years everyone was helped. I really don't understand it anymore at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u100	Once again, therefore, we are asking you to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u101	Thank you. You had another motion. No, I'm not looking at Mr. Van Meenen standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u102	Okay! Mr. Chairman. My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister expects the change in the interest rate rate rate to yield a structural yield of EUR 226 million in the future;]] [[noting that this return is based on the interest rate differential over the last ten years and therefore is only a forecast for actual future returns;]] [[calls on the government to return to students and education higher than estimated, resulting from this change of law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Futselaar, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Beertema and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u103	Actually, all over Mrs Westerveld's contribution to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u104	She's not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u105	Oh, she's got another motion. Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u106	I think it's good to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u107	Then I'll read out my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this cabinet increases the interest rate on student loans;]] [[Whereas former students can make use of five years of joker when, for example, they are unable to pay the student debt;]] [[Whereas interest rates continue during the so-called joker years;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from passing on interest during these joker years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Futselaar, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Azarkan and Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u108	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u109	Then Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u110	When I hear the four motions and the observations surrounding the debate from Mrs Westerveld, I have to say that for GroenLinks it does not really matter very much how finances develop over the coming period, that is to say that it is not at all bad that the government is already investing heavily on student loans, but will continue to do so or will continue to do so much more. How can Mrs Westerveld guarantee that the students of the future can still get decent education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u111	A brief response, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u112	That is a very nice question, because Mrs Tielen is turning it around. She said we're gonna have a problem in the future. Then other colleagues and I would like to explain what this problem is. Mrs. Tielen of the VVD can't explain that. But now I have to explain? That sounds like a turnaround to me. I don't think that's the point here. Or at least I'm not gonna do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u113	Finally. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u114	Then I simply note that GroenLinks doesn't care what public finances are in ten, fifteen, twenty years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u115	That's really weird, isn't it? We are talking about a change that the cabinet cannot explain why students have to pay more interest. That's what we're asking. That is what we are asking for in written rounds and in this debate. I hear Mrs Tielen saying here that we have to do this because otherwise we will have problems over a number of years. Then we'll ask for an explanation, but we won't get one. And then I get to explain the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you. Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. After this debate, it is still unclear to me what the immediate reason for doing so is. Why do we raise interest? I also find it unreliable, because the system was kicked a few years ago, not so long ago. A new system was introduced, but we are going to change it within a few years. I just don't think that's reliable. My party is not convinced. We shall therefore vote against this law. It remains a choice for me. If you choose to put 1.5 billion in company tax reduction every year, which is not really necessary at the moment, because it doesn't drive the economy, but we do it anyway, that's just a choice. The reasons for the things we are doing have not come out well in this debate. Again, that is why we will not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, although I found it extremely modest. We have rarely had a debate on a large subject that was more spirit-killing than this debate. Last night it was about Marrakesh, a theme that has enormous consequences for the survival of the Netherlands as we know it today. Even then, the coalition showed little interest in the enormous concerns that exist among all those citizens with common sense. It was a crystal clear example of the elite of VVD, CDA and especially D66, standing with their backs to their own people. Today it is about something much less radical, but it is something very important, namely the first generation of students who hate debt and therefore refrain from studying in higher education. Here, too, we are talking about people from that lower middle class who are the most victims of the globalising economy that has been rolled out here by VVD, CDA and, again, D66. It's an image of the elite against the people, even today. The coalition partners are clinging to each other. They do not allow light for adjustment or adjustment. That is deadly for the debate and painful to see for the viewer who is on the other side of the welfare line than the average cosmopolitan D66'er. The SP has tried very substantively, so has GroenLinks and I have tried to outline the main line, but that doesn't cause a wrinkle in the pond. In fact, if we, as an opposition, express the concerns of our constituents, the Minister is trying to call us to order because we are the ones who would contribute to the fact that young people would no longer study. I think that is a parliamentary gospel, and that is extremely depressing. That's what I want to say. Finally, Mr President, a final appeal to the students: stop voting for any party in the coalition. These are precisely the parties that make higher education less accessible and, above all, make it more expensive. Vote for those who are now in opposition, preferably of course the Party for Freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. That was free time for political parties. Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mr. Chairman. Bad bill, bad plan, bad for students, bad for education. Don't do it! That simple, because that is also the foundation of the cabinet. It's nothing and it's far too hairy. Don't do it! Should the cabinet still decide with the coalition to do so, which I strongly advise against, then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas students face higher interest costs on the student loan;]] [[Whereas this is an undesirable and unreasonable measure which places the burden on students;]] [[Whereas this measure has an estimated structural yield of EUR 226 million for the general budget;]] [[calls on the Government to make these funds available to students and the quality of higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Westerveld, Mr Azarkan and Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you. Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From science fiction to whodunit and probably not happy ending, when I hear the first speakers. A summary of the last few hours is actually about the question: is this social, is it fair as we've arranged it? And as far as I'm concerned, we have that very much. The fairness of the study advance system remains as it is; the system has favourable loan terms, a large repayment period and a repayment that depends on your ability to pay. Students from today invest in their future. Students from later on should be able to continue to do so. As far as I am concerned, there is a lot of extra money going into education and the quality of education. We have also discussed this separately, and we will talk about it often, as far as I am concerned, so that every young person who can and will can study it with a view to his own future. As far as we are concerned, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u125	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Meenen. He looks at me, but it's really his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to my fellow Members for the fine debate and to the Minister for the actual answers. In this context, facts are very important. It remains that this is not the favorite proposal of D66. I also note that such an argument as the'sustainability of public finances' is, of course, a very boring argument. I understand that, too. I can see Mr. Fitselaar nodding. A party such as his and, for example, GroenLinks has nothing to do with the sustainability of public finances. So I'm not surprised either. Anyway... It's important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u127	This is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u128	Incitement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u129	Yes. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u130	Neither I nor any other party has argued that this is a boring argument. It's just a really bad argument. And I think Mr Van Meenen knows that too. It doesn't make any sense to do such a far-reaching operation with a very general "yes, that's good for the finances, from 2025." That's not a proper basis for a bill. Doesn't Mr. Van Meenen agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u131	This is a second term, so I'd say try the discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u132	I don't think so. I always think that the sustainability of public finances is a good argument. In this context, it is not the strongest argument; let me put it this way. Mr. Chairman. Everything pales in the proposal that GroenLinks makes here. Because that is actually the surprise of the day: the motion asking us to look into whether we can actually reduce the payment period of the loan system considerably. If you, as a group, have any objections to the increased monthly costs of ten per month resulting from this system, which is €12, for workers with an income above average, then it is quite amazing that you come up with the proposal that the monthly costs should really explode by reducing the payment period by ten or more years. I find that really incomprehensible. Anyway... We'll see. Let me put it this way: I look forward very much to the calculations that result from that motion. It would almost mean that I would like to vote in favour of finding out how they work out. I would actually ask the Minister to make that calculation anyway, even if the motion does not make it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I say to everyone who is studying "good luck with the study" and to everyone who is going to study "go study, it can, it is beautiful, it is nice, keep doing it mostly and let no one drive you mad that it couldn't".
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Finally, Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u134	Mr President, thank you. I have to correct something; I forgot to mention it in the first term. Mr Bruins asked me to state at the first time that I would also speak on his behalf. So he spoke to me at the votes: on Twitter there was already some sort of hashtag, like "Where's Eppo?'. Well, Eppo is in a debate about Lelystad Airport. This is also an up-to-date debate, because the European Commission has just taken a number of decisions, which means that this plan is subject to a lot of discussion. That's whether or not he was doing it. That is why he could not be here, but that gives me the opportunity to thank the Minister for his reply and to make a motion on a number of points that we have mentioned about the future development of student debt and the concerns that different parties have about the development of that amount. It was said that a final amount of EUR 33.5 billion was taken into account. But is that still sustainable if you see now that the counter is at 21 billion, but also if you look at the infinity? If we are going to look at how this law worked in 2020, we also need to look at the CDA and the Christian Union. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the total amount of outstanding loans is now EUR 21 billion and that this amount is increasing rapidly over the coming years;]] [[noting that all non-recoverable student debts will have to be charged;]] [[calls on the Government to identify in the 2020 policy review the total amount of study debt, its non-recoverable part and the forecasts for the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35007-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u135	Yeah, because by the time I get to that motion, it'll be here too. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term contributions. In my second term, I will give an opinion on the motions and answer a few more questions. First of all, Mr Futselaar's motion on item No. 13. I'd like to ask him to hold that motion until the letter arrives. If he doesn't, I'm going to dissuade the motion, because I think we shouldn't anticipate the outcome of an investigation that's still going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u136	Just so we're clear, is this a letter that's gonna come before Christmas or not until spring?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u137	It's coming in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u138	So if the proposal is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u139	When I come up with a letter on how we proceed with the Better Benutten assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u140	I'd like to use the motion to influence the outcome. The problem is that there's no point in holding it until there's an outcome. If it's an intermediate step, then it makes sense for me to hold the motion. So that's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u141	There will always be a letter first in which I indicate what the possibilities are and how we deal with them. So before there is a final decision, there will always be a letter to your Chamber first. So then you have every opportunity to submit your motion, but I really think it is premature now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u142	Otherwise, we can do it Tuesday. You have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u143	I'd like to hold the motion, Mr. Chairman. I've said enough ugly things to the Minister, so I can take her in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you, then I will also be generous on my part, and Mr Futselaar will be extremely grateful for that. After all, it's package night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u145	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (35007, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u146	Then there is Mr Futselaar's question about what happens when the government makes a profit on the loans. I have already indicated in my first term that one cannot link it directly to the other and that at the moment the interest paid by the government is much higher than what the student loans pay. So you really can't make that one-on-one coupling like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mr Futselaar, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u148	It's really short and so is the last one. I do not think the Minister can simply make the link with the sovereign debt she is talking about. I am talking about the new loans currently being made by the government on the capital market. They are much cheaper because the interest rate is very low. Just looking back at old debts instead of checking out what you need for the loan system now, I find something really different. I would encourage the Minister to look at it from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u149	I can look at it from your point of view, but reality teaches us that we are always looking at the financing of public debt as a whole. That's a reality I live in. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mrs Westerveld's motions, starting with the motion in part No. 14 on the interest ceiling. In the first period of the debate we have already discussed the fact that there is already a certain ceiling due to the social refund requirement of 4%. As a result, people never have to pay more than they actually can. I have also indicated to you that an interest rate ceiling in times of high interest rates is not sensible. For example, you can borrow at 2.5%, put the loan in the bank and have it rendered. I do not think that is what we want to encourage, so there is every reason to discourage that ceiling. The motion has been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 15, about the early redemption. I would like to point out to Mrs Westerveld that the 25-year repayment period is already in the CPB report in 2014 when the system is introduced. Frankly, I was very surprised when Mrs Westerveld tabled this motion, because, as I have tried to explain before, there is a link between the 4%, which makes the system very social, the 35 years to pay back and the revenues from the system, which we invest in the quality of higher education. GroenLinks in particular has argued very strongly for that 4%. But if you're going to work on these paramaters, either that 4% up or there are fewer returns, so we can invest less in the quality of higher education. I think you're about to interfere with the promise we made to students. We won't do that with this bill, but you will with your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u150	A brief comment or question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u151	Also because there were some comments from the Chamber: it is clearly stated in the motion 'under equal conditions'. So we do not want to touch that 4% at all. That's not in the motion either. However, the motion aims to ensure that a number of people are previously covered by the load-bearing regime. Those are the former low-income students. Our question is to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u152	But in my opinion, you will lose revenue, and so less money will be available to invest in the quality of education. If you're gonna work on something in this triangle, there's gonna be a leak somewhere else. I am very attached to the fact that what has been promised is being fulfilled. And that's precisely what's in those three parameters, not the increase in interest rate. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 16. Mrs Westerveld's motion was also signed by Mr Van Dijk. I think that Mr Van Dijk is doing it, in a slightly different way, in his motion on item No. 18. Those motions are therefore both dissuaded. Look, the Treasury is funding the government debt. That's where the proceeds go. And yes, that is also good for the Minister of Education, because sound public finances ensure that sufficient resources remain for my budget, because the Ministry of Education has an exceptionally large share of public finances. We agreed on this system in the coalition agreement, and I think it has always been very common. I'd like to stick to that. So both motions have been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 17, about the joker years. I would also advise against this motion. If you were to carry out this motion, it would be extremely lucrative to make maximum use of the joker years. The interest income will then decrease. You don't provide cover for that. Moreover, this motion is also extremely complex in terms of implementation. So there are many reasons to discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion in part No. 19 by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u153	No, first of all, about the previous motion. Mrs Westerveld, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u154	A comment on the motions tabled by Mr Van Dijk and myself. They're not the same. Mr Van Dijk says that the 226 million should be invested in education, while our motion says that if these interest payments are more than estimated, then let us return the money to education above the estimated amount. So they're actually complementary to each other. One more comment on the motion I tabled on the joker years. The joker years I was there at the time at the time because sometimes, for whatever reason, it can't go well with you after graduation. There are all kinds of reasons why former students can decide to say temporarily: I can't repay now. I understand that the Minister says that it is difficult to implement, but at the same time we are talking about the group of students who may have a bit more difficulty after graduation. That is why I would ask the Minister to look again at this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u155	And yet my answer remains the same. And yes, I had seen that your motion and that of Mr Van Dijk are not quite the same, but they both infringe the same system. That's why I betrayed them both for the same reason. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van der Molen's motion on item No. 19 to take a close look at the total amount of debt and non-inability in the policy review in 2020. It is both things that we must, of course, monitor properly outside. I think it would be wise to do so, and that is why this motion is given a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the treatment of this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-05-tweedekamer-10.u157	We will vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the people who have just moved to the public gallery. We're actually done for today, including package night. I wish you guys a nice, cozy, nice package night just in case you're celebrating, and I'm closing the meeting.
