ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the VSO Commission proposals to restrict the use of three neonicotinoids. I also seem to be able to say "neonics." The first speaker is Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It's about neonicotinoids. A bizarre situation has arisen. There's a Bee Guidance. It has not been established because it is unworkable, and yet this Bee Guidance serves as a starting point for banning neonicotinoids. This leads to a decline in the case of sustainable plant protection. In her reply, the Minister says that there are not enough possibilities for national risk-mitigating measures, while the Ctgb indicates that there are possibilities and that it can make that assessment. That's why I'd like to table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the major impact of the European proposals on Dutch farmers;]] [[whereas the Ctgb indicates that the European Commission's proposal is not proportionate because risk mitigation measures are possible;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to amend the proposal so that the Ctgb can impose conditions on crops where the use is still necessary in the context of integrated plant protection (IPM), and until such time as that does not happen to abstain from voting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-423]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u3	Suppose the Chamber would adopt this motion, which I really do not hope to see, where does the CDA get the budgets to enable the NVWA to maintain those measures, which the Ctgb considers to be possible on paper, but which the Minister has identified as not enforceable and enforceable? I think the budgets at NVWA are already under considerable pressure. The CDA is actually asking for it to be done, but it also needs to be enforced. Where did that money come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mrs Ouwehand asks where that money should come from. Fortunately, the coalition agreement states that additional funds will be made available to the NVWA. So that's where resources can come from. Moreover, we do not have the impression that it is not enforceable at all. The Ctgb also says that. So it's probably your personal conclusion that it's not enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u5	Well, that's the Cabinet's conclusion, of which the CDA is part. The Minister has just inventoried this. So, if I sum up, the CDA is asking for a proposal to allow these substances anyway and to start working with those theoretical risk mitigation measures. The money for this must come from the budget released to the NVWA, while the NVWA has a lot to do, for example maintaining animal welfare. That's what the CDA is proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u6	The NVWA will always have to make choices. That is what she has done in the past period. We see that there is now a limitation and we are only asking for a new situation in which the NVWA has an important role to play. We also see opportunities to do so in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u7	This is a very important subject. I'd like to support my colleague from the Party for the Animals. Because of all the food scandals that we have known in recent years, one food scandal after another and one animal brutality after another, it has been decided that extra money had to go to the NVWA. Not to promote bee mortality! It really didn't say that. So Mrs Ouwehand does have a point and I think that this should also be included in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u8	The last thing I want is to advocate that we take action that does not benefit the bees. On the contrary. What we are doing now is putting the horse behind the cart, because if there is a ban on the neonicotinoids, this will lead to other effects and the full field sprays will come back. This may have even greater consequences for bees. On the contrary, we are in favour of sustainable plant protection, and these neonicotinoids are very much in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Graus, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u10	With all due respect, but the experts in this field, who really know pollinators, say: don't do it; you're going to kill the pollinators, the bees, the bumblebees. I'm sorry I trust these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. von Martels, were you at the end of your speech, or do you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u12	I have another motion, Mr. Chairman. Shall I file it then? That's a bit longer motion. I'm gonna need the 49 seconds left for that, probably. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas neonicotinoids are mainly used as seed coating in the Netherlands, for which alternatives are not yet more environmentally friendly;]] [[Whereas a ban on neonicotinoids for outdoor crops poses an acute problem for the cultivation of seed potatoes, sugar and fodder beet, bulb and flower tuber plants, whole-earth vegetables and grass and hops;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to develop alternatives as soon as possible, which have not yet been achieved;]] [[Whereas the application of potential alternatives entails risks and requires knowledge, confidence and investment from growers;]] [[Considering that industry-leading policies focus on innovations and far less on large-scale application in practice;]] [[calls on the Government to use, in addition to the development of practical alternatives, the facilitation and support of growers in adapting their cultivation strategy, through incentives, experimental space at company level, monitoring, advice and demonstration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-424]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u13	I forgot to mention that the first motion is also tabled by Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is pleased that tomorrow we will probably be able to take another green step forward in the neonic dossier, as I will just mention, in short. We are far from there, but the European Commission's proposals to restrict the use of three highly harmful pesticides is good news for bees and for humans and the environment. As far as we're concerned, that tastes like more. We hope that the use of other harmful neonics will also be restricted. The trends are encouraging. More and more supermarkets no longer want products for which neonics have been used on their shelves. More and more EU countries, including Germany and France, want to restrict the outdoor use of neonates. And now the letter from this minister, who sends a green message to Brussels. We thank the Minister for her clear answers in the written consultation. It is good that the government is going to vote in favour of the European Commission's proposals. GroenLinks strongly supports the Minister's commitment. Thanks to the efforts of the minister, Friday 27 April can also become a bit of a bee queen's day! We wish the Minister every success and wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr President. We are on the eve of an important decision. The Minister informed the Chamber that she agreed to the restrictions which the European Commission intended to impose on the use of neonicotinoids. That's very important. We welcome it and support the Minister in her efforts. It should be noted, however, that the warnings of scientists about these new poisons have led to discussions in the Chamber for years. Years ago, the Chamber said that the PVV, D66, GroenLinks, the SP and the Christian Union needed a European moratorium, because those means were allowed, but we are warned and we see in practice that bees, bumblebees and other pollinators are dying massively thanks to these supertoxins. Those signals from independent scientists should be picked up sooner. We are pleased that this is happening now. We are pleased that the Minister is going to support the proposal before us next Friday. Thank you for that. But we have to run faster to stop that bee mortality. More than half of the Dutch bee species are threatened with extinction, the minister has still written. Among other things, the UN identifies intensive agriculture, the use of agricultural poison and, specifically, these neonics as the main cause of this bee mortality. We cannot afford to lose crucial parts of our ecosystem, so support for the Minister's line. I call on her to mobilise as much support as possible to take the next steps. We must move as quickly as possible to a non-toxic agriculture in the interests of humans, animals, nature and the environment, as well as of farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr von Martels has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u19	This debate is about the flowers, the bees and the facts and especially with those facts the Party for the Animals is taking a walk now, because it is not a one-on-one situation that if you use neonics you reverse the bees. On the contrary, precisely because of this sustainable way of plant protection, bees also benefit from it. It is also often used on crops where the bees don't even come close at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u20	When it comes to the facts, you can choose which expert you consult. Independent critical scientists, a professor of new risks and at the UN level point out that bee mortality has a total range of causes. An important cause is intensive agriculture, the use of agricultural poison and specifically these neonics. If the President does not blame me, then I think that expertise is a little more important than the private opinion of a CDA member of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u21	Apparently, we have other sources. You must also note that integrated plant protection in particular deserves every opportunity and that at certain times you need certain means to achieve the right result. And those neonics are perfect for that. Are you going to tell me you're against integrated plant protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u22	The Party for Animals is for a poison-free agriculture. That is also the best thing for agriculture itself in the long term, because those bees and other pollinators are actually small helpers of agriculture. So if you want to provide healthy and sustainable food for everyone in the long term, then it's not very wise to just poison all the elements in the ecosystems you need for that. So the Animal Party is pleased that its adopted 2013 motion is now being partially implemented in Europe. And we say to the minister, "Go, more of this." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you. I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I do not have a motion, but everything Mrs Ouwehand has just said is correct. We have supported all these motions and have also tabled motions of our own. Already in 2008 we put bee mortality on the agenda and then it was really laughing about it. So we were way ahead of our time, because the problem is very serious. Bees and bumblebees are at the beginning of our food cycle. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment. I commend her for seeing that we have to protect our food cycle and pollinators, such as bees and bumblebees. It was rightly said by the CDA colleague that neonicotinoids are not the only ones involved in bee mortality. The bee mortality study has shown that there are several causes. That's what I call radiation and other chemical protection products. We should certainly not forget the varroamijt, which also plays a major role. So you can name a lot of things but this is part of it. I have asked the government on several occasions to deal with these non-chemical pesticides. There are plenty of them, but they are not being used enough. In fact, I have only visited a few companies with my group chairman and they are even opposed by NVWA when they work with them. And you can't. So the Minister must take action on that. Make sure those farmers get to work with non-chemical alternatives. At the companies I visited together with Geert Wilders, even bumblebees were used as fighters, as well as bugs. You can even use ladybirds, as well as means that are now forbidden. So the Minister has to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Von Martels has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mrs Ouwehand quite rightly said that she attaches more importance to scientific knowledge than to the knowledge of a CDA Member of Parliament. Do you agree? I am sure this is the case. But do you not find it strange that the Ctgb says that it is possible under conditions to continue using neonics in the Netherlands? Because that is the scientific knowledge institution that we have created in the Netherlands and on which we must base ourselves. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u27	You didn't even give me a chance to answer your first question. You asked a question and then you answered it yourself. Mr. Chairman. I commend Mr von Martels very highly, but it is true that I have had one of the best veterinary think tanks in existence for decades, and also in the 11 years I have been a Member of the States General. This includes people who are also expert in pollinators, marine mammals or animals in the Oostvaardersplassen, the herds of large grazers. Those people are advising me. Those are people who have the right to speak. I think there is a very large lobby of the companies going on. I'm absolutely not sensitive to that. I'm just looking at the facts and the consequences. You know I'm not goat wool sock. And I always leave the church in the middle. But what is happening now is very serious. And believe me, Mr. von Martels, and sleep on it for another night, because there's a very big responsibility on you, too. Because those animals... oh, I hear the Wilhelmus from the State Passage. Oh, that's beautiful. It almost makes me emotional. You need to keep a close eye on pollinators at the beginning of our food cycle. If you don't do anything for those animals that I would do it for, do it to safeguard our food cycle! Finally, Madam President, a word about bees. The poison that bees carry, which I don't call poison but a beautiful substance, is used against rheumatism. You can use honey and bees against cancer, against burns, and you name it. You can use those substances to heal the skin. So these animals also have a medical function. Don't underestimate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you very much for your answer. My main question is this. So you have a veterinary think tank. That's higher in your regard than the Ctgb? I base myself on the Ctgb advice and so you rely on other advice. Do I have to conclude that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u29	Look, it makes sense. I read all the reports and all the advice, but I already said here in 2008: boys, we're going to have problems with bee mortality. Mrs Jacobi was the only one who supported me back then. I was really laughed at, I was literally laughed at. I predicted something that's been going on for years. So you can see that I was right, partly thanks to the people who advise me and who are competent in this matter, even when it comes to pollinators like bees and bumblebees. There is a very, very great responsibility on you, too, Mr von Martels. Believe me, you can regret this very much, because it could get all out of hand. Thank you, Madam President. And a blessed day ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you. Mrs Lodders of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we held a written consultation. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer, but I am not satisfied with it. I would like to announce that I would like to use a follow-up to the answers, but I will do so after the recess by the appropriate route. Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus is quite right, of course, that the bees, that insects are at the beginning of our food cycle. This means that agriculture and horticulture, farmers and gardeners depend like no other on bees and insects. But this decision will put an end to the innovation in which we are world leaders. We are going to take a very big step back in time and the economic consequences of this decision have not been quantified. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the guideline for risk assessment in the re-evaluation of the three neonicotinoids has not yet been adopted by the European Commission;]] [[Considering that the ban on the three neonicotinoids has a huge impact on a number of large crops in Dutch agriculture, e.g. seed cultivation and sugar beet cultivation, that the economic consequences have not been quantified and that the innovative methods used in the Netherlands, such as seed coating and seed techniques that minimise the risk, are no longer allowed;]] [[noting that it is not yet clear whether there are sufficient alternatives and what the environmental impact of these alternatives is;]] [[noting that a previous restriction of use is pending before the European Court of Justice and that the European Court is expected to rule on 17 May;]] [[calls on the Minister to postpone the vote and otherwise abstain until the guideline has been adopted by the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr Futselaar of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. In agricultural debates we are accused of being so negative, I shall say. And that is why it is good to be able to say this time: well done, European Commission, well done, Minister! We very much welcome the decision to ban these three dangerous neonicotinoids which not only threaten our bees but also our ecosystem, and we wholeheartedly support the decision to vote in favour of the proposal. In fact, in the joy of celebrating, I had considered putting forward a motion right away to advocate banning even more neonicotinoids, but that would have been faint, a little acidic and not entirely justified to the people who have tabled such a motion before. So I'm gonna leave that out. Nevertheless, I would like to encourage the Minister to do so orally, so that she can respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Groot of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. Today is a beautiful day. It is a beautiful day for the bees and a very long process has come to an end. Already in 2009 the first signals came that something would not be right with the neonicotinoids. From 2013 on, they worked harder on this. And now, at least, in Europe. That's really something special that it deserves to think about. The decision, the intention of the Minister, is therefore the only logical one, because D66 always assumes that you also follow the highest authority that has the knowledge here in Europe, EFSA. We've always done that consistently. It is also, of course, about how we deal with pesticides. As you can see, there are actually more and more signals coming out of the market in the area of arthropods that, for example, German customers are becoming increasingly critical of this. We must prepare Dutch farmers for this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government applies the principle of integrated plant protection;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development,]] [[considers that these uses are not related to the control of organisms and serve only agricultural convenience;]] [[noting that these uses are therefore at odds with the principle of integrated plant protection;]] [[noting that German market players are imposing increasingly stringent requirements on the use of satsumas and that it is necessary to prepare Dutch farmers for this;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of surfactants for use outside of integrated plant protection (such as calendar sprays, reset of grassland and pre-harves),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u36	We're just waiting for the final motion to be circulated. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u37	Can you lower the speaker's seat a little bit? Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I have counted correctly, there are four motions and one more question from Mr Graus. I'm going through it. Firstly, there is the motion by Mr von Martels and Mrs Lodders on item No. 423 in favour of amending the proposal so that the Ctgb can impose conditions on crops where the use is still necessary in the context of integrated plant protection and, as long as this does not happen, abstain from voting. I think I have already made it clear in the written reply and in the letter what my assessment framework has been, but I will repeat it here for the sake of clarity. This is also important in the context of answering the other questions. I have always said that I will allow scientific studies and insights from EFSA and Ctgb to lead the choices I make with regard to plant protection. That's how I did it with pomegranate. I did the same thing to neonicotinoids. EFSA published a report indicating that the neonicotinoids are harmful to bees, which are therefore at risk. The European Commission has put forward a proposal to limit this. I've asked the Ctgb to respond to that. They have also indicated that they see risks to the bees. At the same time, they have said that risk-mitigating measures could be taken. However, as I also indicated in the letter, this would mean, for example, that there should be a lot of rotation on parcels of crops. For example, we must have very clear that no parcels are exchanged or re-classified. These are practices which are very common in Dutch arable farming, as Mr von Martels also knows. In short, it would really lead to a huge administrative organisation, but it would not really suit the way in which cultivation is carried out in the Netherlands. So it could be done on paper, not in practice. I also checked this with NVWA, which also indicated this. On the basis of these considerations, I have noted that we are going along with the European Commission's proposal. That is why I shall be voting in favour of the Commission's proposal in the ScoPAFF, which will take place tomorrow. I say to Mr von Martels that I am aware that this could have a major impact on Dutch arable farming. That is why I have also indicated that I want to work actively with the sector to find alternatives. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u38	The motion in part No. 423 received the advice "dissuade' from the Minister. Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u39	I have two questions for the Minister about the fact that we are based on EFSA and Ctgb. I fully agree with you, but if EFSA bases itself on a bee guidance that has never been established, I find that doubtful. Secondly, the Minister says that she is based on the Ctgb, but on the other hand the Ctgb has also proposed that reducing measures should take place in the Netherlands. The Ctgb did indeed offer that possibility. That possibility, therefore, is there, but the Secretary of State does not want to use it. Can you tell me why you don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u40	In response to the last question, I said that the Ctgb indicated that it follows EFSA in its analyses. The Authority indicated that this is harmful. There's no light in that for the rest of us. The Ctgb has indicated that you could take risk-mitigating measures. I have just explained that this could be done in theory, but in practice it is not workable in the Netherlands. That's why I've come to my senses. To the question on EFSA and the undefined review framework the following. We in the Netherlands have insisted that the review framework should indeed be established. The Authority authorised the submission of views by the authorisation holders. They also involved them in their analyses. This is the latest state of the review framework. They allowed additional views to be submitted. They have been involved in their analyses, but they have not come to another analysis. That is why I am now following the line of EFSA and the Ctgb and will vote in favour of the European Commission's proposal. Then I come to the motion-Von Martels on part number. 424, which invites the government to use, in addition to the development of practical alternatives, the facilitation and support of growers in adapting their cultivation strategy, through incentives, experimental space, monitoring, advice and demonstration. Research projects are already under way in these areas, such as the system approach, which also offers experimental space to growers. I interpret that motion in the same way. I have indicated that I am prepared to look with agriculture at how we can find alternatives. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that we try to give maximum room to look for alternative pilots and such aspects, I can leave the vote on the motion to the House. If the petitioner also asks for all kinds of money from my ministry, it is not. But I have promised to sit down with those involved to see how we can stimulate the alternatives. In that light, I read this motion and I can leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Von Martels, just to be clear, let me take a look at you. Do you agree with the context in which the Minister assesses this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u42	That's right, I'm following the Minister's reading. Of course, financial support is always welcome, but the motion must be read in accordance with the measures I am proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u43	Then the motion gets to part No. 424 "Quote Room."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u44	So I don't like all those considerations that are above it. I read it as a kind of interpretation of Mr von Martels. I interpret the motion in my own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u45	That bothers me, too. Those first two considerations just don't add up. That is why I would really like to oppose an apparently sympathetic motion. The Minister shares that. So there's nothing wrong with the request, but there's nonsense at the top of the two recitals. Mr von Martels will have to remove it, otherwise I will have to advise my group to vote against it. Because everything has to be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u46	This actually encourages Mr von Martels to amend or rewrite his motion. Perhaps Mr von Martels could reply briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u47	I'm not changing the motion. What I'm proposing and what's in the motion are the facts. If others do not interpret it that way, it is up to them, but this motion I am going to put to the vote without amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u48	That's clear. Mr Graus has indicated that he will vote against this motion. The Minister's advice for this motion remains "judge chamber" along the lines that the Minister has just set out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u49	I came forward because the Minister said: I am not looking at the recitals and the observations and then I can give the motion 'judgement chamber'. Why does the Minister say that? Doesn't she have some trouble with that, too? Otherwise, a minister won't say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u50	On what is being asked in the motion for a resolution, I say the following in my words, because I have interpreted the motion. I asked if Mr von Martels could agree to my interpretation. I have already indicated that I am taking agriculture around the table to look at alternatives. Where space is needed, which is already offered on parts, I would add, we shall try to give it. I am not going to say anything about all those considerations that are above them, because we can still have a whole debate on them. Let me put it this way. But I now turn to the motion for a resolution. I have interpreted it and as Mr von Martels that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u51	Clear. I take the liberty of saying to Mr Graus that he is strictly right, but we are not going to have this discussion here. It is up to Mr. Graus to advise his group on this motion. Now we go to the third motion, in part no. 425.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u52	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That is Mrs Lodder's motion. She is asking me to call for a postponement of the vote because there is still a case before the Court. On this point, she says that it will be decided on 17 May. I've just been checking to see if that date's right. It is plausible but not yet certain. Apart from that, the judgment of the Court does not determine...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u53	May I ask the members of the PVV Group to be a little quieter, because I cannot understand the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u54	In this sense, the Court's ruling does not determine whether or not to vote on Friday, as it also takes into account the situation of 2013. In addition, new views have been put forward, for example on the assessment framework. However, the ruling has no direct impact on the European Commission's current proposals. I have just indicated the lines along which I have come to my assessment, and so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u55	The motion in part No. 425 is not recommended. Mrs Lodder's apologies, by the way. She was supposed to be at a procedural meeting unexpectedly. Finally, the fourth motion, in part No. 426.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u56	That is Mr De Groot's motion. He is now asking for the ban to be applied outside the integrated plant protection system. Mr De Groot knows that there has recently been an authorisation for turnips for a period of five years. This has also been done on the basis of an EU assessment. We are, moreover, consistent. It's always in the Chamber: either you're consistent or you're not. I always try to stay a little consistent and I notice that it is going in all directions here. Here too, we have based the assessment and voting behaviour on the reports of EFSA and Ctgb. They indicated that the funds could be accepted, and that is why we agreed to them. But Mr De Groot is asking about the use of resources. As Mr De Groot also knows, all Dutch authorisations are currently assessed by our Ctgb and on that basis I base on whether or not admission is permitted. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u57	The motion in part No. 426 gets the judgment dissuaded. Mr De Groot, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u58	I am not going along with the suggestion that we are not consistent here. This is not about the authorisation of the medicine itself. We have always followed the Minister very consistently, because EFSA has been very clear about this. This is about the use of the substance in the Netherlands and that is what the Minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u59	We have a procedure for that and it runs through the Ctgb. The Ctgb is now looking at the re-evaluation of the use of these funds and I shall be guided by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u60	Very briefly, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u61	There's no misunderstanding about that either. This is a matter for the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u62	I have indicated that I am being guided by the Ctgb, as I do in other files. And I'm just waiting for that assessment. I have one more question from the PVV. Am I going to work on the non-chemical alternatives? Of course, because that is the starting point of my policy. We also advocate the use of integrated plant protection, which requires prevention and alternative measures. Mr Graus knows the steps needed. I am also committed to the accelerated admission of these low-risk means, because I think that is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Graus, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary. But could the Minister also ensure that, for example, LTO and LLTB collect the problems with non-chemical pesticides they encounter? Can they just go through a list of cases they're running into with your officials? I'd like that very much. I call on the LTO and the LLTB to do so, because they're telling us now. I said, "Just bring me an A4 with everything on it." I hope that's what you want to receive with your team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u65	I think we've got a pretty good shot. We already know a lot about what the hiccups are. Once again, we are very much in the process of trying to accelerate this. But if they want to hand over a list to us, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u66	Finally, Mr von Martels, no doubt about his motion on item No. 424.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u67	I want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u68	At the request of Mr von Martels, I propose his motion (27858, No. 424). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-9.u69	This brings us to the end of this VSO. The motions will be put to the vote shortly. I'll suspend for a few moments.
