ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u2	I shall open the debate and give the floor to Mr Van Hattem. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Minister to listen to what is being said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Finally, this Chamber today deals with the Law on partial ban on facial covering clothing. This will enable us to take the final step in the legislative process. After all, this proposal has a (too) long history at a time when Islamisation is taking place at an increasingly rapid pace. It was already in 2005 that the House of Representatives adopted the Wilders motion to ban the public use of the burka in the Netherlands. The then cabinet did not go beyond an investigation into the possibilities of a burka ban in 2006. In this study several variants were set out, the scope of the current legislative proposal being the least far-reaching variant: a general ban on all facial clothing in specific places. In the intervening years, successive Cabinets and various variants have proposed a ban on burkas and/or facial clothing, but this has not so far led to concrete legislation. So now there is this proposal. Geert Wilders and Sietse Fritsma also filed an initiative law on behalf of the PVV Group in 2007 to introduce a burka and nikab ban. This initiative law describes in detail why it is necessary for a democratic rule of law to ban burqas and nikabs in public places. Essentially, the following key arguments were mentioned. The burqa or the nikab is at odds with modernity. It is an expression of the rejection of Western core values and core standards, including the equivalence of men and women. Whether forced or voluntarily worn, they are a symbol of women's oppression and symbolize a subordinate role of women vis-à-vis men. The burka or nikab hinders the emancipation and integration of women into Dutch society. It makes participation in social life very difficult. There is a lower chance of training and a job and a greater chance of being dependent on a benefit. The burqa or nikab pose an undesirable safety risk. It reduces the sense of security of citizens and it removes among other things the effect of using security cameras. Examples of the use of the burqa as a disguise in terrorism and crime are also mentioned. One of the suspects of the terrorist attacks in London on 21 July 2005 tried to flee the city dressed in a burka. And in 2007 a bank was robbed in Sarajevo by two men dressed in a burqa. It was also argued that a ban could remove the social pressure from the environment on Muslim women to wear a burka or nikab and that it would remove problems with interpersonal communication. These arguments have not lost any weight after more than ten years; quite the contrary. In response to this PVV initiative law, the Council of State already stated that wearing facial clothing, even if the choice is based on the free will of the carrier, makes it difficult to communicate and to wear a burqa or nikab in so far as it hinders an open relationship between the carrier and its surroundings. The Council of State also shared the view that a burka's facial cover poses a safety risk, in particular because of the unrecognizability of the person wearing it. These elements also come back as a basis for the present legislative proposal, which, although it is a compromise with its general character and its limitation to specific places, is nevertheless a necessary step. This step is so necessary that the cabinet had designated this bill as "urgent." It is therefore noteworthy that the Minister needed no less than nine months to provide a further response to some of the questions raised by a small number of political groups. Why did this response of barely four and a half sides take so long, when the bill is urgent? We'd like to hear that from the Minister. In the time needed to reach this answer, several events have taken place in the world which illustrate why a burka ban is necessary. I will mention some of these examples. In July of last year, the news appeared that a suicide bomber, a man shrouded in a nikab, had blown himself up in the Iraqi capital Baghdad, resulting in 14 dead and 20 wounded. Last December, five men in burkas shrouded entered a government building in Pakistan and committed a terrorist attack with automatic weapons, with nine dead and thirty-five injured. And in the Australian Melbourne it was hit twice. In August a woman in a burka attacked a Subway sandwich shop with a big knife and last February a 56-year-old man was stabbed there in his sleep by a Bengal woman in a burka who had been inspired by ISIS for this act of terror. In Europe, too, there are the necessary examples of Islamic terror and violence involving burqas and nikabs. I mentioned the terrorist suspect in the London attacks in 2005. In 2006 another British terrorist suspect escaped into a burqa and in 2012 this scene repeated itself. The Somali terrorist suspect Mohammed Ahmed Mohamed, suspected of being involved in the Al-Shabaab terrorist network, managed to get rid of his electronic anklet in a mosque and escape into a burqa. I would like to give another example of this, but there is no doubt that there is much more to be found in this area, which took place last March in Dijon, France, where a woman in a burqa threatened people in the street, shops and in a cathedral with a large knife. It is not for nothing that more and more countries impose a burqa ban. In France Belgium, Austria, Bulgaria and the Swiss canton of Ticino a ban on wearing a burka is already in force and several other countries, such as Italy, Spain and Germany, took restrictive measures. And last week Denmark also decided to ban burkas. The Danish ban also extends to the public road. Several European countries have thus been able to introduce a ban on public space. That is therefore legally feasible. Can the Minister explain why the Netherlands does not yet want to take this step? Is she prepared to do this after all? Even in a number of largely Islamic countries in Africa, a burqa ban has already been decided, or they are considering it, as in Cameroon, Chad and Senegal. This region is experiencing the Islamic terror of Boko Haram. For example, in Chad at least 27 people were killed when two suicide bombers dressed in burkas blew themselves up. And even Morocco has decided to ban the manufacture and sale of burkas for safety reasons. While these measures are being taken in Morocco, Moroccan Muslims in the Netherlands are now more and more fanatic of Islamic ideology. A SCP report published last week shows, among other things, that Moroccan Muslims are increasingly wearing body-covering clothing: 78% now compared to 64% ten years ago, with an increase in younger generations as well. According to the report, a large part does that because they see it as an Islamic rule because of the rules of the Qur'an about covering parts of the body. The report also states that this can function as an identity marker. I quote: "a statement from Muslims to the outside world about being their Muslims." Professor of Sociology Ruud Koopmans stated earlier that wearing a veil is the best predictor of Muslim fundamentalism. I quote: "As tolerant Dutch people, we tend to think that the veil is an innocent patch of fabric. That's not right." Thus Koopmans, who has calculated that 55% of the couples whose women wear a veil is fundamentalistic. The signal by using a burka or nikab to cover the face to the outside world as an identity marker is a signal of accepting and facilitating women's oppression and social pressure within a community and environment and thereby an Islamic middle finger to our western society. Nevertheless, some parties in this Chamber still live in the ill-naïve idea that wearing a burqa stands for freedom. In the written round, the CDA, D66 and GroenLinks in particular raised the question of whether this ban should outweigh the freedom of religion. Freedom of women's oppression would be a better term. The PvdA made it even more colourful by explicitly worrying about restricting the freedom of a small group wearing face-covering clothing. What freedom? And how much is the freedom of our Western society not restricted by this Islamization? The Islamic action group Stay away from my nikab has apparently found a willing ear among these parties. In January 2017, this action group sent a joint statement on behalf of the Islamic community in the Netherlands that spoke out against this bill. This letter was signed by a whole bunch of notorious salafists and salafist organizations, such as Sheikh Fawaz Jneid, imam Abdul-Jabbar van de Ven, Arnoud van Doorn, the Hague As-Soennah mosque, Stichting Waqf and the Eindhoven Al-Fourqaan mosque, but also by all kinds of mosques that are owned by local authorities in particular, such as the collaboration of mosque authorities Brabant and Zeeland, the SMBZ. Among other things, I mention them at the El-Feth Mosque in Tilburg, the Mosque Arrahman in Breda, the Mosque Assalaam in Zundert, the Mosque Al-Taqwa in Etten-Leur, the Moroccan Islamic Centre in Roosendaal, the Mosque El-Feth in Bergen op Zoom, Stichting Arrahman Mosque in Goes, Stichting Touba Mosque in Vlissingen, Stichting Mosque Almohsinininin in Oosterhout, Stichting Al Rahman Mosque in Middelburg, as well as the Essalam Islamic Cultural Centre in Rotterdam, the ICC Essalam, the Blue Mosque in Amsterdam et cetera, et cetera. Read the letter again. What does this say about all these organizations and mosques? Salafistic or not, they all pursue the same Islam. The same Islamization that threatens our society and makes it necessary to de-islamize it. The burqa and the nikab are seen as commonplace in broad Islamic circles. The question to the Minister is how she looks at such a joint appeal from that Islamic community. What does this say about this community?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr Van Hattem states that wearing the burqa and the nikab in broad Islamic circles is seen as normal. As I know, there are several hundred Muslim women in the Netherlands with the nikab and the burqa, about 0.1% of Islamic women. How does he reconcile his statements with these data?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u5	As such, they are consistent with the fact that it is not about the number of women involved, but about the fact that all these Islamic organizations I mention a whole procession of mosques and there were many more organizations in it that accept that these women walk with them, who accept that the burka and the nikab are worn. That's the point. They issue a joint statement on behalf of the Islamic community in the Netherlands. I haven't heard any of those organisations shout: yes, but that's not on our behalf. They support it, facilitate it and call with force to renounce this law. With this they express their support for carrying the burqa and the nikab, with broad support from the Islamic community, because almost every mosque in Brabant and Zeeland has already been mentioned plus a whole lot of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u6	I doubt that people who believe that the nikab should be allowed everywhere belong, from their beliefs, to a mainstream in the Islamic community. There are also certain parliamentary groups, at least in the House of Representatives, who felt that this should be allowed. They could've been under that statement. That doesn't mean much to me. By the way, this statement has been endorsed by a small minority of the Dutch mosque authorities and not by a large part, as you are now suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u7	Well, look at the letter. There's a whole procession, a whole lot of it. It is a joint declaration on behalf of the Islamic community. I have not heard one Islamic organisation in the Netherlands distance itself from that statement, not one. They're right behind it. That's the point. They accept the burqa and the nikab, because they are based on the Islamic principles, on the principles in the Koran and the Hadith. That's just what they're assuming. That's whether it's salafistic or not, no different. That's Islam, that's Islamization. We must fight this and we must de-Islamicise against it. The fact that you do not want to see that is a pity, but the PVV is making a hard effort to do so. In the meantime, it was the VVD party in this Chamber who asked in the written round whether instead of this ban on facial clothing the gradual path of integration would not be better. What gradual path? It is precisely this form of integration that has failed fatally over the past few decades. What fairy tale does the VVD still believe in? Islamization continues at a rapid rate and Islam does not integrate. Islam will never adapt to other societies, only other societies adapt to Islam. To illustrate the situation the following example. In 2015, a bus driver from Arriva refused to take a woman with a burka on the line from Oosterhout to Tilburg. A similar case occurred in Lelystad a year earlier. Instead of standing up for their own drivers, Arriva felt it necessary to talk to the driver and apologize. This bending to Islamization is precisely what makes this law necessary, so that bus drivers know where they stand and have the right on their side. The legislative proposal is supported by a comprehensive justification for international conventions. There is no reason to waive this bill on those grounds. Moreover, there is no question of absolute freedom with regard to the wearing of clothes in public. In addition to restrictions in local regulations, Article 435a of the Code of Criminal Law has been in existence for 85 years, prohibiting, inter alia, the public wearing of garments which are expressions of a particular political desire, better known as the uniform ban, but which, according to the explanatory memorandum, is not limited to uniforms. Back then, Minister Van Schaik stated in the explanatory memorandum: "Clothing documents are as general as possible. There is therefore no need for uniforms or parts of uniforms to be worn. Also ordinary garments, black or brown shirts, high hats on occasions where they are not prescribed by use or, for example, even completely identical costumes may be characteristic of a particular political endeavour and as such fall under the penalty clause." Since the burka or nikab also stands for the political pursuit of the Islamic ideology of Sharia as a state form, wearing these garments could also be subject to this penalty. Can the Minister state whether it considers the application of this penalty provision also applicable to the carrying of burqas and nikabs on the public road, in addition to the application of this legislative proposal for specific places? Finally, Mr President. If this bill is adopted, it will be necessary to introduce it quickly. Can the Minister indicate the period within which it intends to bring the law into force? Mr President, as far as the first deadline is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u8	In his speech, Mr Van Hattem focused on Islam and wearing a burka or a nikab, but the bill also has a few other things in mind. In his speech he mentioned a number of safety arguments. Does he agree with me that these safety arguments are also important in the event that people may not hang on to Islam, but are walking around with balaclavas or full helmets? In other words, do these safety arguments apply not only to a particular group, but also to others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u9	Sure. That is what this law is for. If someone with an integral helmet appears at a desk, that is indeed true. But the origin of this bill is a motion by our group chairman in the House of Representatives, Mr Wilders, who already asked for a ban on burka in 2005. A long journey has been followed. Finally, this variant came out on the basis of the study carried out in 2006, with a general ban on specific places as one of the variants on the table. That's what this bill has become. But the reason was to ban burka in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u10	I would like to thank Mr Van Hattem for his explanation. I understand that there was a reason, but I'm glad he sees the other side, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u11	You'd finished your speech by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u12	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA group understands all too well the sensitivities in society that can evoke face-covering clothing like a burka and nikab. People feel uncomfortable and sometimes unsafe. It's always nice when you can look at someone. The PvdA recognises the importance of mutual communication. In order to understand each other, it helps if you can look at each other and hear each other; there is no doubt about that. Nor is there any discussion about the need for facial recognition in a number of places to identify people. In some situations, such as in health and education, this is even necessary in order to achieve good quality services. The question we are discussing today is whether the legislative proposal we are discussing is necessary or not. contribute to this. In our Dutch society, we are proud to live in a free and democratic rule of law. With each other, we strive to strike a good balance between the space to be yourself, including the ability to make individual choices, and laws and regulations and other agreements necessary to live peacefully and safely together, to take sufficient account of each other and to be connected. Whether it's the question you believe in, where you go to school or how you dress, you can be there and we strive for equal opportunities and opportunities in our country, whoever you are and whatever you do. As a PvdA group, we think it is important to cherish these achievements, that everyone can be sure of that, that you are treated respectfully and equally and that every human being is of value. This means, for example, that you can know for yourself whether you want a piercing or tattoo, what clothes and what hairstyle you wear and that public and collective facilities, such as care, education, library and public transport, are available and accessible to everyone. The bill we are debating today is a violation of this. Face-covering clothing is legally prohibited in government buildings, education, public transport and care. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the government for the written answers to the questions put by other groups and our group. Answers which have given the desired clarity on a number of points, but which also raise new questions. Questions that mainly concern the need for the legislative proposal, its effects, its feasibility and its enforcement. Let me begin with the most pressing point for my group: the need for a legal ban on wearing facial clothing. The government states that the ban aims to remove barriers to communication in places where, without such a ban, the quality of service or safety cannot be adequately guaranteed. My group wonders whether there are obstacles to which a law is necessary. Let me explain this to you. It is customary that in education and care during treatment the burqa or nikab goes off, so that one's face is visible. My girlfriend has been a midwife in Almere and Amsterdam for over 35 years. She has accompanied several women with a burqa or nikab during pregnancy and childbirth. She said that it is self-evident to these women, and also to their partners, that in the office and the delivery room the burqa or nikab goes by default, so that she can see the woman's face, and that there is never any problem with that. Also in the specialised youth care, where parents' children who were involved in the struggle in Syria, the dialogue is chosen and the facial covering clothing goes off if this is desirable in the context of treatment or education. In short, the quality of service is already guaranteed by the fact that face-covering clothing in practice goes off when necessary. Does the Minister recognize this image? This plenary debate is about the added value of a legal ban. On this point, several parties, including the Council of State, are extremely critical. The conclusion is that the need for the legislative proposal has not been demonstrated. The Council of State supported its position as follows in its opinion. It is unlikely that schools, public institutions, public transport or care on a somewhat relevant scale will face-cover people. The second point is that it is likely that these sectors have sufficient possibilities to prohibit or provide individual indications, if necessary, if they have not yet done so. There is no evidence that the sanctioning of these house rules, transport conditions, directions, etc. is not adequately regulated. Without sufficient justification, the legislative proposal is incompatible with Article 6 of the Constitution and with the freedom of religion guaranteed by Article 9 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). This also applies to Article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The latter Treaty states that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. Is it necessary to restrict these freedoms in order to protect public security, order, public health, morals or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others? That question is at the heart of today's debate. My group is not convinced of the need to regulate legally that people should no longer wear face-covering clothing at school, at the GP, at the hospital, at the consultation office, on the train, tram and bus, and also that they should not be at the UWV, the Social Service, the Court, the Human Rights College, the COA or at the police station. I am passing through the points raised by the Council of State in order to make an ultimate attempt to obtain a convincing answer from the Minister as to whether a legal ban on facial clothing is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u15	How does the PvdA look at the rights of a bus driver, a general practitioner or a handler, who, out of conviction, says that he does not want someone with facial clothing in his office or in his bus? Those bus drivers are now standing with their backs against the wall. Apologies are made if they refuse someone in a burqa on a bus, while they can have reasonable reasons for doing so. How are the rights of these professionals protected? Why are you only looking at the rights of some fundamentalists who want to walk in a burqa?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u16	The core is our fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and the European and international treaty. Those are the dominant rights in our society. Why, in the situations Mr Van Hattem outlines, do you want to violate other people's rights? This may be necessary in the context of security. For example, you need to be able to identify yourself on the bus or in the care to be able to get good care. That is not so much about the right of one person to another. It is then necessary in this situation that the nikab, the burqa or the helmet go off to provide good care and service. That's guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u17	No, that's not guaranteed. Those bus drivers were stuck because it is not legally regulated that they could impose a refusal. With that, the transport companies stood with their backs against the wall. We need to make sure that we are on the side of bus drivers, doctors, anyone who says he doesn't want someone with facial clothing in his room or bus. That is something that needs to be contained. The right must be on their side and not on the side of the one who doesn't want to show his face for any reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr Van Hattem assumes that the right of one person always goes above that of the other. One characteristic of fundamental rights is that you weigh the right of one against the other. You may have views about the other person, but that doesn't mean you have the right to decide how the other person dresses or how the other person behaves. When you go to a court of law to collide with fundamental rights, it's about whether you think it's justified to find something about someone else. It may be necessary for the provision of care or transport. You know as well as I do that the transport companies have indicated that they are not waiting for this ban. Things can be included in transport rules, but they must be proportionate to the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr. Van Hattem, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u20	How proportional is it to allow such backwardness in a free society and to impose it on bus drivers and on people who work in practice, who cannot invoke any right if they refuse to do so? They can be sued at a college and have to answer for it. The right must be on their side and not on the side of such a farmer's carrier or whatever idiot who wants to cover his face for whatever reason. That is something that needs to be contained. Those who simply pursue their profession must find the right on their side. That's what PvdA looks away for. Then there's your story about fundamental rights. These fundamental rights can be restricted. That is clearly stated in all written documents. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u21	I don't think there's a question being asked, so I'm gonna keep going. Mr. Chairman. The first concerns the question of whether there is a major social problem. This starts with the demand for the number of people with face-covering clothing and how often schools, hospitals, town halls and courts are affected in such a way that the safety or quality of service is at stake. The government has not systematically investigated the need for legislation. There was talk of 200 to 400 women throughout the country. In dealing with the bill so far, the government could not indicate how many people carry a burka or nikab. The question I have to the Minister is whether she now has a view on the number of carriers of a burka or nikab. Let's just assume it's 400 people wearing facial clothing. This means that in most of the tens of thousands of school locations, government institutions, buses, trains and trams and locations of healthcare institutions, people will rarely ever be affected by facial clothing. I'm sure that's consistent with what each of us experiences in practice. In short, it's not a lot of people involved. On the question of whether there is a major security issue, the government indicates that there are no known security incidents. Can the Minister explain why she considers that this bill is necessary for security reasons? Are there not much more effective measures, such as a guide in public transport and good lighting at stations, which can enhance the sense of security? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, and also during the legal process so far, the government indicates that the law is necessary to settle a discussion that has been taking place in society and in parliament for years. Apart from the fact that the adoption of a law does not provide any guarantee for the resolution of such a discussion, for example, take the donor law and the General Data Protection Regulation, for example, my group believes that resolving such a discussion is not sufficient ground for violating fundamental rights. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. To sum up, we would like to hear from the Minister why the government speaks of a major social problem if it concerns some 200 to 400 people and the institutions concerned have little or no contact with them, there is no noticeable social unrest and there are no security incidents. Mr. Chairman. The second point raised by the Council of State concerns the possibilities already available to the institutions concerned to prohibit the wearing of facial clothing if they consider it necessary. Already they can lay down such a ban in house rules or rules. For example, transport conditions. House rules, based on safety considerations and/or quality of service, submitted to the Human Rights College have all passed the test of criticism without difficulty. The government argues that the legislative proposal aims to achieve uniformity and thus legal certainty as to where facial clothing is prohibited. We very much wonder whether this will be achieved with the legislative proposal. Let me explain this to you. Organisations retain the possibility to set additional house rules. Care institutions may, for example, allow patients/clients who reside in their institution indefinitely and visitors to these patients/clients to wear face-covering clothing. That seems nice, but stands in the way of uniformity. The distinction made in the bill between temporary and long-term stays in an institution allows different rules to apply to patients/clients who are temporarily admitted, such as the elderly who recover after hip surgery in a nursing home, and the elderly who are long-term in that same nursing home because of dementia. It can also lead to the fact that you can wear a burqa anywhere in a disability care institution, but not in the youth care institution that is a street away. That is where young people, by definition, reside temporarily. In a single room in a hospital you can wear a burqa and if you are in a lake bedroom, it is not allowed. In short, why uniformity? What's the point of this? At the request of our group, where are the spaces to be regarded as residential and/or residential? what is understood by private areas in the care sector that its terms are not defined in relevant legislation such as for example the Youth Act, the Quality Act, Complaints and Disputes in Care and the Long-Term Care Act, the Government replies that it does not intend to lay down national rules for where and where no facial covering clothing may be worn. This is up to the competent authority of that institution. What does this mean for the feasibility and uniformity of legislation, my group in turn wonders? Moreover, the confusion is compounded by the fact that the law does not apply to care-related services, such as day-to-day activities in private district centres from the Wmo. Will the law apply if the care is provided on the basis of a personal budget in a private care farm or for example in a Thomas house? In addition, private organisations can continue to ban facial clothing through house rules, provided there is sufficient ground for this. For example, many shops and petrol stations do this. In short, does this legislative proposal give the people in our country and the organisations involved the desired clarity? What do you mean, uniformity through the bill? Was it not better to take full responsibility for care in the care institutions and to refrain from a legal ban? We are looking forward to the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the third point of the Council of State. Looking at the places where the ban will apply, it appears that the transport sector and the education and health sectors do not need this bill. They can do just fine with the means they now have, such as house rules and transport conditions. The College of Human Rights, in a letter to this Chamber, indicated that it feared that the bill would lead to it not being able to hear people with a burqa or nikab. Doctors, represented by the KNMG, express concern to fear of women wearing a burka or nikab. This poses not only health risks for these women themselves. It may also have adverse effects on their children. These include, for example, not visiting the consultation office, avoiding other forms of youth care or not participating in vaccination programmes. On this point, my group finds the answer given by the government, namely that this is then the mother's free choice, unsatisfactory. In these cases there is also an interest in taking good care of the child or, in the case of vaccination, a social interest. How does the Minister see this and why does the government just stress that this is the mother's choice? Why would the legislator jeopardise access to care with a ban on wearing facial clothing? This brings me to the issue of minority rights. The PvdA attaches importance to respect for these rights. They are laid down, inter alia, in Article 27 of the aforementioned International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This prohibits a person belonging to a minority from being denied the right to practise his own religion and to apply it in practice. We cannot close our eyes and ears to the fact that a legal ban on the wearing of facial clothing by Islamic fellow citizens, including those in whose family or family is never worn a burqa, is harshly felt by some of them as disrespecting their right to practise their own religion as a minority. Police officers who invest in the major cities for years in building a good relationship with the Muslim community, such as in, for example, Kanaleneiland in Utrecht and the Schildersbuurt in The Hague, fear that the introduction of the bill will undermine the carefully built-up relationship with the Muslim community. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? Can the legislative proposal not have a counter-effect that would put security at risk rather than make it safer with the bill? I would like a response from the Minister on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u22	Surely it cannot be the intention for the PvdA here to do self-Islamicisation by adapting ourselves because of so-called sensitivities within the Islamic community because of the imposition of a burqa and nikab ban? That's the world upside down, isn't it? That's adapting to Islamization, isn't it? Is that what the PvdA is after?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u23	I think we live in a society where we have to adapt to each other. We're wearing different clothes now than we used to. I'm standing here without pantyhose. That was unthinkable in this Chamber a few years ago. So the question is: what are the rules and what are the habits? They change over time. A society is developing and we will always have to adapt to each other, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u24	No, we should not adapt to Islamic retardation that is shown with bookra's and nikabs. I'll give you a quote. I wonder how you feel about that. "The burqa or nikab is a garment worn on the basis of the conviction that women are only polite and therefore decent when they cover their feminine appearances, such as body shapes, hair, face and in extreme cases even the eyes. MEPs believe that this view reflects a human image that is totally inconsistent with the thoughts of emancipation, freedom and self-determination that they themselves adhere to. Not only the legal, but also the moral freedom to display your beauty without obstacles with clothing, hairstyle, jewelry and make-up, is a great asset. As representatives of a progressive movement, the members of the PvdA Group want to defend that freedom against views that think differently." You are doing exactly the opposite, Mrs Noorden, of what your colleagues here across the street in the House of Representatives, literally said in 2012. You are defending the burka and the nikab, and you are defending the Islamization of the Netherlands. Is that what the PvdA Group is after here in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u25	It is a good thing that we have two Chambers, because each Chamber looks at legislative proposals from its own perspective. I share with my colleagues across the street that we stand for the freedom to be who you are. We will always fight for women who unintentionally wear a burqa. But we are also fighting against a situation where people are forced to wear something that does not suit them. We are in favour of the freedom in which people can express their religion. For example, there are people in the Christian community who like to wear a skirt and where you don't come to school when you wear long pants. There are all kinds of variants in which faith and how you express yourself are connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u26	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u27	Mrs Nooren, by coming up with these arguments, the PvdA is not defending the freedom of those women who are forced to wear a burqa. You adapt to that situation, you facilitate that situation instead of making you stand up for the freedom of those women. You are doing exactly the opposite by maintaining this situation, by maintaining all kinds of arrangements which will enable these women to continue to wear burka and nikab. That is what the PvdA is doing, and that is achieving and facilitating Islamization. That's the world upside down, and we have to stop it. The PVV says that this must be stopped and that is precisely why such legislation is necessary. It is necessary to combat Islamization. What you are now saying is to bring about the opposite. So I ask the question again: what does the PvdA Group really think of the burka and nikab here in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u28	Mr Hattum obviously does not need an answer, because he is running away. Moreover, the PvdA itself is about it, for whom it stands up; we can make our own judgment about it. We stand for the freedom in which women are allowed to dress as they wish. By the way, this also applies to men. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the practical implementation and enforcement of the bill. This subject has also had the necessary attention in the House of Representatives, but this has not given the desired clarity to the members of the PvdA Group. The government states that the institution can request offenders to take off the facial clothing and/or leave the premises. Institutions are not obliged to enforce and cannot be called upon to do so, is in the government's answers to questions on this point. We would like to hear from the Minister what the bill changes when a mother walks a nikab on the school square, someone with a burqa in the hallway of the outpatient clinic sits in a hospital waiting for the doctor or gets on the tram while the conductor is in another wagon. For example, in the latter case, does the Minister expect fellow travellers to use the emergency brake when they address the woman with a burqa and this woman is not prepared to take off her face? During the legal process in the Lower House it emerged that the enforcement of this law is not a high priority. There will be no extra money or capacity available to the police. This raises the question of whether the law will be enforced in practice. If there is a traffic accident or a break-in in a shop, it seems logical to the PvdA group that this priority should take precedence over going to a school square in the rare situation that there is a woman with a burqa there. Do we not speak here of symbolic legislation, which is contrary to the fundamental right of everyone to express their beliefs or beliefs, the members of the PvdA Group are wondering. I would like a response from the Minister to these questions. My group also wonders what the impact on the sense of security will be if, at the request of an institution, the police are to maintain it and the person wearing the facial clothing is to oppose it. If this does not reduce the sense of security rather than increase it, my group is asking the Minister. And don't we put the horse behind the cart like that? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Where self-regulation is not sufficient, the PvdA Group considers that legislation is necessary. Especially where fundamental rights are at stake, this requires extreme care and must be a major social problem. I would like to invite the Minister to convince my group that without this law, the safety and/or quality of services in health care, education, public transport and public buildings cannot be guaranteed. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Legislation is a valuable tool. This instrument marks, in a democratic rule of law, the power and authority of the government to provide rights and to impose standards and obligations on citizens and on society as a whole, with the cooperation and agreement of the people's representatives. Government and parliament must act responsibly with this precious instrument, precisely in the interests of those citizens and in order to prevent the instrument from getting bogged down in reach, in effectiveness and in acceptance. Lex dura sed lex: the law is strict, but it is the law. This only has meaning if legislation can be considered necessary, is carefully motivated, serves legitimate social objectives and has a factual meaning in legal practice that cannot be achieved otherwise. I assume that the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who, together with her colleague for Justice and Security within the government, can be regarded as the guardian of the quality and rule of law of law and regulation, is wholeheartedly in agreement with these principles. I have no doubt that this is the case, and then there is the question of whether she can defend this bill, which her predecessor put forward, here with justice and reason. It is a legislative proposal whose social necessity may be seriously questioned, the reasons and justification of which are, to put it mildly, limited, and the legality of which, because of possible conflict with Article 9 of the ECHR, protects the freedom of religion of citizens, is at stake in the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. The answer to our questions by the previous Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in the reply, more than a year ago, and the clarification by the current Minister of April of this year, unfortunately, my group has not been able to convince of the desirability and usefulness of this bill. We are firmly convinced that this is symbolic legislation which seeks to solve a problem which does not seem to be a problem and which is an over-ridden response to an equally over-ridden social debate on burqas and nikabs in public space a few years ago. Although the bill is not limited to this largely religiously inspired dress, which does not leave much of the face uncovered, it did give rise to this. Although the integral helmet, the carnival mask and the ski mask are also covered by the functioning of the bill, they have never been engaged in a passionate call for a ban. In my group, we shall not be the only ones to oppose this strict Islamic costume, which is difficult for us to regard as a perception of female submissiveness and as a limitation to participate in society. However, this disgust is not in itself a reason for such a ban, since the government must respect and protect a great deal of religious freedom. That is not the motive of the government to defend this bill. This is situated in "the importance of mutual and recognizable communication for quality service and security" according to the government. However, in order to consider legislation, there must be a real social problem. This problem must be substantial, and perhaps even, in terms of the terminology of the European Court of Justice when it comes to using political freedoms, it can be regarded as a kind of clear and present dangerer. Is there a real social problem? The government is in the fog at this point. There are no figures, there is no research, there is no urgent request from the social sectors concerned to legislate, there are no examples to support the need for a ban, there is no European standard that would deserve follow-up. However, the previous Minister of BZK pointed to a social discussion that had to be resolved, but this discussion has apparently gone underground since the hype about burkas has been a long time ago. It is generally assumed that this is about an exceptionally small number of carriers. The number mentioned by Mrs Nooren was about 400 and that is the last thing I could find about it. As the Section has reworded, this quote has already been mentioned by Mr Nooren Oomen-Ruijten "it is unlikely that the sectors concerned will have to deal with this phenomenon on a somewhat relevant scale." Does this justify a partial ban by the legislator, I ask the Minister. And if there is a real problem, then the question is whether a ban is needed by the legislator. It can already be resolved without legal intervention. In fact, it is already solved. After all, institutions in health and education, public transport companies and public authorities already have the room to set home rules for identification and communication, and often do so. No burka in or for the classroom, visibility and recognizability in the train, ski masks and other face cover off in the hospital. These house rules are sufficient and there is no urgent need from the sectors to add another legal ban. There is also no evidence that the enforcement of these house rules is currently impossible or encounters resistance. Again the question to the Minister: does this justify a partial ban by the legislator? The government considers that a uniform legal standard is nevertheless necessary because uniformity creates clarity and prevents legal uncertainty. And that is necessary, according to the government, because these are conflicting interests and individual freedoms that are at stake in fundamental rights. On the other hand, I would like to say that this criterion for legislation is very broad. It is always a question of conflicting interests in society between citizens and often individual freedoms, but this must not always lead to legal standards and prohibitions, especially if other, less radical means are available. Whether or not to allow cell phones in class at school is also related to conflicting interests and freedoms and affects fundamental rights. But the Minister will, I suppose, leave regulation to the education itself with love in this case. In short, is there really a situation of legal uncertainty? Isn't this legal uncertainty raised by the indeterminate exceptions to the partial prohibition, for example, laid down in the criterion of "appropriate in relation to participation in cultural and festive activities"? The government did not want to comment on the scope of this exception in the written exchange of views and avoided concrete examples. Other exceptions, such as the residential part of health care institutions, also raise the necessary questions, as I saw in the contribution of the very competent colleague. Or the distinction between public transport, where the ban does apply and the railway station area where this does not apply. Or the fact that the statutory partial prohibition does not prevent municipalities from imposing more stringent rules on public space. That is obviously not where the legal uncertainty is at stake. How does the Minister appreciate the argument of legal certainty in this respect? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to explain to the Minister the Government's assertion that the present legislative proposal meets the limitation criteria set out in Article 9 of the ECHR in which the fundamental right of religious freedom is protected. I have already pointed out the Section's strong doubts about the matter. As the government itself clearly explained in the written exchange of views, a restriction on religious freedom...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And the measure should, I quote the government now: 'be in a reasonable proportion to its objective and there should be no less drastic measure as a reasonable alternative'. Apart from my preference for a term as a'reasonable alternative', it is therefore a question of proportionality and subsidiarity. My specific question to the Minister, with whom I would like to end this first deadline, is whether she does not agree with me that these two principles will be put under pressure here and that it cannot reasonably be said that the objective justifies this means and certainly not that there are no other less radical measures available. After all, there are and are being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u31	Mr De Graaf of D66 is now very much concerned with the ECHR. But burka bans have already been issued in other European Member States. France is a very clear example of this. There has been a clear ruling by the European Court of Human Rights on the situation in France. There the ECHR has clearly stated that it fits within the framework of the ECHR. This bill has been reviewed in this respect. What doubts do you have about this statement by the ECHR? There's just a clear statement. It can be done in several European Member States, why should it not be possible in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u32	As Mr Van Hattem rightly said, the French position was affected, which is not comparable to the legislative proposal that is before us. There it was about public space. And unlike France, we are dealing here with a proposal for a partial legal ban precisely in those areas and in those sectors where measures are already possible and are being applied. I did not quote for nothing what the government rightly says as an interpretation of Article 9 of the ECHR, namely that it is also proportionate, so this measure is not too great for the problem that is being addressed and subsidiarity is already possible, and that these two principles are being put under pressure. That does not mean anything about other countries where there are other situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u33	It is less relevant whether it is about public space. The issue is whether the right can be restricted. The ECHR has made that clear: yes, there are sufficient grounds to limit it. These are no different in the Netherlands than in France, Belgium or Denmark: the same problems with burka and nikab. There are really fundamental objections to that. It must be possible for this to be done. You are, in fact, too easy to ignore by saying: it is not proportional. It is also not proportional to admitting such forms of oppression into a democratic rule of law. We must stand up for our Western core values. That's too easy for you to ignore as D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u34	I have the impression that Mr Van Hattem was mainly organizing his own second term. This bill isn't about women's oppression. If that were the case, I think other measures would be included in the legislative proposal. I am therefore focusing on the objectives of this bill, on the measures contained in this bill and on everything that can be done. If I weigh that against each other, this is a useless bill. It is symbolic, without actually meaning anything, while there are already other possibilities. That's a reason not to want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u35	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u36	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a brief response to that. D66 now says that it is symbol law and that it is too limited. If the other way around and if there had really been a clear law, specifically against the burqa and the nikab, which was really focused on that part, would D66 have supported it? Or would you have said again: now the weather is too far-reaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u37	That's asking about the familiar road. If there had been a clear and present dangerer in our society, it would have been a serious consideration of what to do with it. That is not the case. It's about an extremely small number. You are asking to shoot a huge government cannon at a small social point, and also with the wrong considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u38	I have a question about proportionality. Can Mr De Graaf indicate when proportionality would be discussed? So I'm gonna get out of the discussion about burka or nikab or whatever. Are there any examples of which we say that banning facial clothing would be proportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u39	I'm definitely not going into cases I don't know. Then I'm gonna have to fantasize. This is of no benefit to you, and it is of no benefit to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u40	Let me give you an example. If the police are confronted with people who cover their faces at some event or at a demonstration, don't you think this is even the time to respond to that example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u41	Mr Schalk knows that we already have legislation on this. The general local regulations allow action to be taken against this, apart from the legislation we have on the freedom of demonstration and the possibility of binding it on borders. That is already settled in the Netherlands. So I would like to say something about that too. That is not fantasy, by the way, but reality. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I come to the final rules of my contribution. Our conclusion... Let me be courteous: our preliminary conclusion may have become clear from my speech. Nevertheless, my group awaits the Minister's reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year and a half after the House of Representatives accepted the bill that regulates a partial ban on facial clothing, we talk about this in the Upper House. The previous cabinet and cabinet have certainly not rushed to answer the written questions from this Chamber. In fact, that is not surprising either, because this bill provides a limited solution to a limited-defined issue, a problem, says the Council of State, which can also be resolved very well without legislation. Let us not pretend that this bill is about mopeds and motorcyclists with a closed helmet, skaters or cyclists with a wooly ski mask or Asian tourists with a mouth cap that goes far over the nose. This bill is about a few hundred women in the Netherlands who in school, on the bus, in the city hall or in the hospital largely cover the face because of their religious background. This group is not large, but the cabinet believes that conflicting interests are at stake and that individual freedoms and fundamental rights in particular clash. To some extent, my group can still support that reasoning, not because of wearing certain clothes, but because we are dealing with an underlying broader emancipation issue, which requires different solutions from clothing rules. In fact, my group is bewildered that a cabinet consisting of two liberal parties, which cherish the personal freedom of people, and two Christian parties, which represent the freedom of religion, has taken this insignificant but symbolicly stigmatizing piece of legislation off the shelf. Instead, this cabinet could also have had a real debate on the values we cherish and the search for balance to bring together potentially conflicting beliefs. More about that later. The cabinet wants to settle a long-standing social and political discussion on face-covering clothing. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, the question is whether the need to do so with the legislative proposal before us is urgent and inevitable. Gasoline stations as well as banks and notaries have long solved the problem of the integral helmet and balaclava and banks' mandatory identification in financial transactions..... with their own home rules. The scope of this legislative proposal therefore does not extend to these sectors. It is about educational institutions, governments, public authorities and health care, sectors that have also indicated by a large majority that they can deal with the problem of difficult communication through face-covering clothing very well themselves. If there is sufficient basis to come up with this legislation, we ask the Minister with the Council of State. How much greater is the problem in these sectors compared to the above mentioned banks and petrol stations? If requested by my group, the Minister could not give examples of unworkable situations by wearing a nikab or burqa. Speaking about conflicting interests and social discussions are very big words, which are more symbolic in nature than they are actually dealing with a major bottleneck in practice. If this cabinet already needs to take firm decisions on many years of social discussions, let it look again at the weak decision last week on the New Year's Fireworks. That is a discussion about safety and discomfort that millions of Dutch people and their pets have; that I have here before the Party for Animals, but it is not a matter of concern to them and not of the whole country only a few hundred women. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has explained in detail, in response to questions from my group, that the bill in its view complies with fundamental rights. We are grateful for the extent of the explanatory statement, but we do not share the conclusions. For example, in the reply, the Cabinet states that fundamental rights can be restricted by law. Of course, that is the case, but the restrictions imposed by the law must have a strong legitimacy and be sufficiently proportionate. For my group, the considerations underlying this legislative proposal are not sufficient justification for this limitation. Are the legitimate aims that justify restrictions, such as public security, the protection of public order, health or morals or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others really at stake when a small group of women who make up just two thousandths of the population gets on the bus with a burqa or nikab? As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, this has completely lost sight of proportionality. The cabinet has checked whether there may be indirect discrimination against Islamic women. This included the Constitution, the ECHR, the IVBPR and the General Law on Equal Treatment. The cabinet considers that an objective justification for this legislative proposal is in the interest of communication and in ensuring a quality of service and a safe environment. That would perhaps be the case if the sectors concerned indicated that they do not know what to do with the handful of women carrying a burqa or nikab. However, as has been said, almost all sectors have indicated that they can solve the problem very well themselves. And if there really were insecurity and lack of service by the burqa, why does the cabinet opt for legislation that affects only a few sectors? Shouldn't it be about the full breadth of social life? For the sake of clarity, I do not argue in favour of this, but that would be a consistent reasoning. I'd like a response from the Minister. This legislative proposal also raises the necessary questions in its implementation. Mrs Nooren has already mentioned this in the area of care. I'll add a few questions. Should a bus driver who sees someone with a nikab at the stop be driving on or getting the person in question and then calling the police to maintain? After all, the police maintain, not the O.V. company. If a farmer in the district center goes first to the window of the Wmo and then to that of the district association, is there another regime under the same roof? And where would a mother who brings a child to school take the burqa off? In the classroom, at the front door, in the schoolyard or even on the sidewalk when the front door is on the public road? And does the Minister really see it happening that the school will then call the police to make sure that the burqa actually goes off? Perhaps the Minister can tell us again exactly where the border is in these cases and how the Minister intends to regulate enforcement. Mr. Chairman. Isn't everything all right? Yes, it is. Members of my group are not in any way delighted by the fact that women hide behind a burqa or nikab in public space. We too sometimes feel uncomfortable, but for other reasons. The wearing of face-covering clothing can be an expression of deeply felt religious belief, but can also be an involuntaryly imposed ritual, stemming from the unequal position of women. Probably both the situations or maybe something in between. We do not know, just as the Cabinet states, whether a burqa and nikab ban takes women out of isolation or even more at home behind the front door and withdraws from public life, and as a result do not dare to go to the doctor for yourself or your children. Self-choice or social coercion? Conviction or prescription you can't escape? Is it good for women's independence or a barrier? Probably everything at once. Probably all there. As far as my group is concerned, this brings us to the core of an emancipation issue: how do we ensure that women who are restricted by specific religious rules can emancipate and make their own choices in the way they participate in our open society? We are actually talking about Objective 5 of the UN's sustainable development goals to which the Netherlands has committed itself: equality between women and men. We like to project this equality to other countries, but the Netherlands also has a lot to do in this respect, as witnessed our relative decline in the SDG rankings in the field of gender equality. Religious backgrounds play a role in this. Both in specific parts of Islam and in specific Christian groups there are beliefs that restrict women in their social and social lives. My group believes that this is undesirable. We are defending the freedom of religion, but we are also defending the right of women and men to self-determination, as is the case with an open, liberal society. There's a field of tension. Where one, the freedom of religion, the other, restricts the free choice of living one's own life, we must engage in the debate and, with a broad commitment, ensure that people are not kept at home against their will or should avoid parts of public life. If the cabinet agrees with that, but we do not read that in support of this bill, we would like to be at the forefront of ensuring that freedom of religion and emancipation do not stand in the way of each other. A piece of symbolic legislation and a government that determines how to dress does not help. Cabinet, coalition, pick up the glove and let's talk about what really matters: the freedom of people to make their own choices and the support they deserve to make that possible. Mr President, to make the latter concrete: unfortunately, the cabinet did not have an impact assessment on the potentially counterproductive effects of this bill and the potentially inhibiting effect on the emancipation of women. Is the Minister prepared to organise a good evaluation with a clear objective, in particular whether women are going to participate more in public life or whether they are going to be isolated from it? And is the cabinet prepared to report on this Chamber after two years and, if necessary, to propose additional emancipation measures? Then we know that women do not want to stay at the bus stop, do not take their child to school or dare to visit the general practitioner anymore. I'd like a response!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u45	Madam President. The legislative proposal we are discussing has been welcomed by the VVD Group. During the written preparation we asked some questions and we thank the Minister for her reply. It is customary for us to ask ourselves every legislative proposal: is there a problem? And if so, does this bill solve the problem? Both questions are answered in the affirmative by my group. For several years there has been discussion about facial clothing, especially the nikab and the burqa. In society, in the press and in the Lower House, and today in the Upper House. Discussions in which fundamental rights are at stake. And the question as to how far face-covering clothing is acceptable; acceptable for the purposes of human communication, recognizable face-to-face and security. There are also all kinds of house rules for staff, clients, students or travelers. These house rules can be very diverse. Sometimes there are no house rules, which the institution would like to have at its disposal. This situation creates legal uncertainty. That is what this bill seeks to provide for. It provides one general standard; a ban on facial clothing in health care institutions, education, public transport and government buildings. It is not only a general, but also an objective standard: no face-covering clothing, in the interest of good communication and necessary for quality of service and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u46	Mr Schouwenaar said 'there is a problem and institutions would like to set house rules, but cannot or cannot do so', something like that I understood. I believe that each institution can set its own house rules, so what exactly is the problem for which this legislation needs to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u47	Indeed, institutions can make house rules. I didn't say you couldn't. I have said that sometimes they are not there, and that institution would like to be there. I have taken that from the documents that have been sent to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u48	I have only read in those documents a remark from the previous minister that an institution sometimes finds it difficult to set house rules. That is something other than that they do not, cannot or would not want to do so, but do not do so. Again the question: can all institutions set house rules in which they can say if they wish or as a necessity because of its functionality: nikab af, burka af, integral helmet? If so, why is this legal ban necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u49	Mr De Graaf once again asks the same question, so unfortunately I have to answer the same question. Yeah, you can. I didn't say you couldn't. The second question was: why this law? That is the continuation of my speech. I can now summarise that very briefly, in reply to you, but I find that a bit unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u50	I'm sorry about that, too, so I'm gonna listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u51	Okay. The house rules remain within the limits of the general standard. The VVD Group welcomes this proposal. Why? Firstly, because, in the words of the then Minister Plasterk, it is'religiously neutral'. It is only about the quality of care and safety, or as Mr Lintmeijer put it: it is about uncomfortable feelings. And the kind of facial cover does not matter; not only the burqa, but also the balaclava, the shawl and the integral helmet. Secondly, the proposal complies with ECHR case law. A fundamental right may be restricted. It has to be by formal law. The limitation must be necessary in a democratic society. And this one has to be subsidiary and proportional. The proposal does not discriminate. It applies to everyone and to all forms of facial clothing. In our view, the proposal is a good solution to an issue of conflicting fundamental rights. Madam President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes not only this proposal but also some comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u52	Is Mr Schouwenaar ready to justify the need for the legislative proposal? At the beginning of his speech I heard something about the need to settle social discussion. This raises the question of whether the resolution of a social debate is sufficient to limit fundamental rights. The second question concerns the uniformity that Mr De Graaf has just asked for. That is not quite clear to me. My argument was that the legislative proposal does not lead to uniformity, because in addition an institution can lay down house rules, so that supposed uniformity is undermined in the same bill because all kinds of changes are possible. On the one hand, you can say in the care that people who have been admitted can wear a burqa. On the other hand, you may set additional rules, for example in the parking lot of a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u53	I didn't say the word "uniformity," as I recall. Nor did I mention the resolution of a discussion as an argument for bringing forward a legislative proposal now. What matters is that we all want good quality care and that safety is well guaranteed. That could be trouble in the workplace. I think that this bill can help us get ahead of problems in the workplace. This bill does so by setting a universal standard, a general standard. Maybe I can assume that you agree with me so far, but then the question arises as to whether it should be in a law or whether we should be satisfied with house rules. My group prefers a law because it has more authority than all those house rules. Those house rules can overlap and gaps can arise. That law has a general regime that closes all gaps. In addition, a formal law is needed because this is a restriction of fundamental rights. These are the reasons why my group prefers a law to make an arrangement that everyone is bound by. This is without prejudice to the freedom of everyone to regulate this by house rules, as he or she wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u54	This is at the heart of the debate, namely whether a law is necessary, including proportionality and subsidiarity. How does Mr Schouwenaar assess the reactions of the transport organisations, the health sectors, the education sectors and the KNMG? These are the ones who say the following. Don't do it, we can do it now, we will engage in dialogue with those involved; of course we have to get rid of that burqa in the office, the delivery room and the classroom, but please don't burden us with a law that strengthens the relationship even though we don't need it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u55	As much as Mrs Nooren says it now, I have not read it, but I have read what a number of organisations say about it. Of course, it is very important what these organisations say about it, but the government also has other interests to serve, such as preventing problems in the workplace and ensuring quality care. You know the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u56	Mrs Nooren, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u57	That is indeed the crux of the question. Institutions and the competent authority have all the possibilities to provide quality service and security through house rules, if you do it neatly also agreed by the Human Rights College. And there's no problem with that right now. This raises the question of whether the legislator is inclined or whether, as a legislator, you should be cautious and think: let the field do what it is good at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u58	We disagree on that. I think we're going the same way, but we're going somewhere else. I used to be a Boy Scout, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u59	Mr Schouwenaar is now saying something about the relationship between the PvdA and the VVD that I have suspected for years, but it can now simply be said again openly. That's progress, isn't it? My question to Mr Schouwenaar is as follows. He said, at least as I understood him, that setting a general legal standard is without prejudice to the institutions being able to make their own house rules if they so wish. I don't think that's quite the case. Isn't that the general rule that excludes the freedom to make other house rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u60	It is indeed excluded, but that is without prejudice to what I have said and meant that this does not mean that all house rules are at once out of hand. They may lay down rules for their own institution, for their own territory and for their own employees, provided that they remain within the limits. I am thinking, for example, of clothing regulations for own staff. It's still possible, and it's not gone now. I hope that I have temporarily satisfied you with that. Madam President. I now come to a few critical points. It is a small problem when we look at the number of wearers of facial clothing. About 400, but that doesn't say everything. I want to remind you of the bill against refused officials. This involved about 60 people and was nevertheless accepted. Enforcement can be a problem. Two years ago, this showed the images of the southern French beaches. Shame on the transgressors and the enforcers. Still, the law and the house rules will eventually have to be enforced by the police. We are counting on the Dutch law enforcement system to do this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u61	I was equally confused by the comparison made by Mr Schouwenaar between the 400 farmers and the approximately 60 so-called'refusal' officials. You could say that 60 is even less than 400, so what are we worried about? But you know, I hope, that these are officials with powers of government, whether or not they are extraordinary officials, who decide whether or not a marriage can be concluded. That is fundamentally different from the question of whether the law sets a standard for a number of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u62	They didn't decide whether or not a marriage could be concluded. In that situation, too, it was always certain that everyone could marry the way he or she wanted. It is not about the differences in content; there will be a good deal of them, although there are also a lot of parallels in substance. I remember that treatment very well. The argument of the small number has been mentioned here. I just wanted to point out that there are even smaller numbers that lead to a different outcome or perhaps not. But if it's just a number, I think we're failing the seriousness of the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u63	I don't think anyone's just mentioned the number. There has also been talk of the relativity of the number relative to the total number. If you compare that with those civil servants again, the results are very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u64	But then we're magical with numbers, and neither of us should want that, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u65	I mean, I think you started it. So judging a bias on magic with numbers is something you should first of all tell yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u66	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u67	I had two questions the first of which was just asked. So I'm gonna limit myself to the second. Do I hear Mr Schouwenaar say that these house rules are fine but that the law lays down the rules, which is all very enforceable? There is a problem in my perception or a problem. The care facility or bus driver can maintain the house rules themselves. Now that it has suddenly become a law, explicitly stated in the explanatory statement that it is being enforced by the police, another kind of situation is emerging that does not actually make this enforcement easier but rather more complicated. I am curious to see how Mr Schouwenaar looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u68	I have indicated that enforcement here is a difficult problem and I do not want to run away from it either. I could imagine... I'm going to fantasize now, but I'll do it at your request, so you won't blame me, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u69	That makes me feel a little uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u70	Yeah, yeah, but with another cause. I can imagine that, in such a situation, there will first be a conversation and that attention will be drawn to the fact that a lack of communication or a disruption of communication is not conducive to the proper functioning of the service and that, in the event of persistence and refusal, there will eventually be something about trespassing, local trespassing or any other reason for the police. If such a request from the health care provider, the driver and so on is not met, is there any reason for the police to act? I realize that's tricky. In the south of France this was also apparent, although there were also views that the confrontation was somewhat sought there, which is not conducive to a proper solution either. I can imagine that this will eventually find a solution by judicial means in a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u71	I do not think we are all waiting for the footage of the French beach to which, I think, Mr Schouwenaar refers. But the fact that there is now legislation on house rules leading to enforcement by the police means that we force the police, I would almost say, into the office at times when healthcare organisations themselves state that they can actually solve it themselves. That's complicating a social problem instead of solving it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u72	It was already a matter of the police when a conversation does not lead to a solution. And that remains the same in this situation. Ever, when no response is given to repeated calls, repeated requests, it is ultimately a matter of whether they are based on them or the strong arm, so to speak, to call it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u73	I don't think that's entirely true. Because if you have house rules and they're broken, you have a different procedure than when you bring in the police. Then you can file a complaint against the house rules. Then it is not customary to immediately bring in the police, because that happens in case of trespassing. That's different from breaking house rules. That was also stated in the Government's reply to the questions on this subject. So you're going to a complaint board. Just before the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u74	Just so we're clear, one doesn't rule out the other. You end up with the police if you want to put an end to the situation that is considered undesirable. Another point, Madam President, concerns shopkeepers, small SMEs who must be a centipede and an all-rounder. They cannot know all the legislation we make here together. They are often on their own and must act quickly. If they make a mistake, they'll get to the judge soon. The VVD Group did indeed refer to the criminal court in our written questions. We thank the Minister for her response to our questions on this subject and we hope that in the near future the College of Human Rights will pay attention to the particular position in which shopkeepers sometimes find themselves. The next point I would like to mention is the chance that this bill will isolate the wearers of facial clothing. That might be possible, but it is equally conceivable that communication will improve. In our view, it is our own responsibility to choose face-covering clothing. Perhaps a form of home visit can offer solace, but it remains the private domain of the wearer of face-covering clothing. We must respect them. Madam President. All in all, the VVD is in favour of this bill. It is not a question of subjective views with regard to wearers of facial clothing, nor of their religious or otherwise motives. The proposal has an objective basis. Quality of care, education, services and safety. In addition, the bill applies to all types of facial clothing, including balaclavas, shawls and integral helmets. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Discomfort and displeasure will be felt by many Dutch people at the moment when someone almost completely covers his face. The possibility of meeting, to connect, is limited. The Jewish philosopher Levinas has even founded his ethics on the face of the other. "In the face of the other, I am called upon to mercy and compassion," he says. Living together is under pressure if we can't meet again, can't look at each other anymore. The bill we are discussing today is related to this. It looks on face-covering clothing. This includes not only Islamic-inspired facial cover, but also integral helmets and ski masks. But to be honest, it can be seen that the advent of the nikab is most likely to give rise to this bill. My group sympathizes with the unrest about, the concern about participation in or, rather, distance from society of the wearers of this covering clothing. It places us in a society issue. Let me also point out that some of this unrest, of this inconvenience, is part of the rule of law. Minorities are protected here, even if their views annoy the majority. Our democratic rule of law remains strong only if we continue to talk about differences between ourselves, even when it concerns our deepest beliefs. Immediate action by the public authorities in the event of unease is therefore not compatible with the rule of law. It is always our duty to cherish freedom wherever possible and thus to contribute to peace and security in our society. The bill under discussion today does not contain an overall ban but a limited ban on wearing facial clothing. It only applies in those places where the government considers it necessary to prevent the wearing of such clothing from seriously hindering communication between them. This jeopardises the quality of service or safety. In the care, education and public transport sector, the government proposes this restriction, and a general ban previously suggested in the House of Representatives is not mentioned. The fraction of the Christian Union recognizes that wearing these facial clothing, and then the Islamic veils, is part of their religion for the women concerned. The Netherlands is a country where freedom prevails. We also cherish freedom of religion, which is a great asset. This includes allowing people to express what they believe and keep the commandments of their religion. In Islam there is different thought about the rules of how a woman has to dress, but it is clear that there is a current that sees the almost complete covering as a commandment. In any case, it is not up to the government to judge whether or not that should be included in Islam. It is aware of this and the present legislation infringes the freedom of religion of a number of women. Freedoms, however, are never endless, they are also limited and they sometimes collide. This is the subject of this legislative proposal, and it is the responsibility of the legislator and therefore of this Chamber to check whether the government limits this freedom in a proportionate manner in accordance with the Constitution and treaties. Firstly, my group notes that this is a small group of women. My personal impression is that this group is increasing in a number of urban areas, but it remains a small group. Then it is difficult for the Minister not to be able to identify a current state of affairs or a trend. Or does she still have actual insights? I invite her to that. Does she know whether there is a link between the increase in the number of Muslims in the Netherlands and the number of facial veils or not? And does she know if there is a percentage increase within the Muslim community of women who opt for a facial veil? What we can see in any case is that in recent years judgments have been made by the judge and/or the College of Human Rights on the subject of facial clothing. Mostly with social, and I almost always believe with parliamentary, debate as a result. That parliamentary debate was, by the way, on the other side. The Minister argues that this bill will put an end to that discussion. There will be a uniform and clear legal standard, providing clarity and certainty for both carriers and fellow citizens and staff in relevant institutions. To date, the different institutions have applied their own house rules. Can the Minister give practical examples of how this now leads to varying regulations and what tensions this would give to the educational or health institutions? In addition to the proposed legal framework, the institutions and service providers concerned can still set house rules. Does the Minister envisage additions in some sectors and how does this relate to the desired legal certainty? Think for example of the covered larger stations, where the weather has no influence on the climate. I read the Minister's argument on the questions raised by the SGP colleagues. But if it is chosen to limit the possibilities of wearing face-covering clothing in public transport, I would like to hear from the Minister why no similar consideration can be made for these places. Surely there are a lot of parallel arguments that also apply to public transport? Can the Minister reflect on this point? Is there really an end to the discussion when it comes to public transport? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, this legislative proposal requires a fundamental rights test. Freedom of religion can be restricted by formal law. The review of Article 9 of the ECHR raises the question of whether the objective is legitimate. My group follows the government's reasoning that in the proposed cases communication is particularly important in order to provide good service and to ensure a safe environment. In our view, the ban meets the requirement of proportionality, because it is limited to a few places, neutrally formulated, does not specifically target religious clothing and the sanction imposed is of the lowest category. In addition, the present proposal does not prevent a particular religion from being confessed by wearing face-covering clothing, as the bill only covers a number of specific locations. However, I have looked carefully at the review of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the bans in France and Belgium. It should be noted in these judgments that the Court attaches great importance to democracy and legal culture in the country concerned. There's a big margin of appreciation. The Dutch proposal is more limited in character than, for example, the French one, and I think it is understandable, given our Constitution and our legal culture. I would ask the Minister whether she can comment on developments in other neighbouring countries, for example Germany, but also the United Kingdom where there has been a mixed debate. In addition to the fundamental rights test, my group also looked at the social impact and feasibility. With regard to social effects, I would ask the Minister to share the findings of the introduction of a partial or partial ban in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. I noticed that Mrs Bikker, who is generally extremely careful, especially when it comes to fundamental rights restrictions, completely ignored the subsidiarity test. It has examined proportionality in detail. There are differences of opinion on this, but it does not mention subsidiarity, it does not assess it. However, I believe that it is absolutely essential to review whether less radical measures than the proposed partial legal ban are possible, even more so, even if they are being applied. How does she respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u78	In fact, I indicated this in the introduction to my speech, but I did not make it sufficiently specific to reflect on it. My group can imagine that this is now typically a subject for which you, as a government, set a standard. Because there have been several lawsuits, there has also been a social debate. In this you can see that sometimes trouble arises in applying the house rules. I lived in Utrecht for years. I remember the case of a general practitioner who received someone with a burqa in his office, which was not as flawless as we all would like here, namely: one has a conversation and one gets out by mutual agreement. At a time like this, I and my group welcome the establishment of a standard. This may lead me to make a different assessment of subsidiarity than Mr De Graaf. I'll continue with the social effects. I would ask the Minister what effects in the other countries I have just mentioned on the introduction of a partial or partial ban there were on the participation of women in education. Did they find the way to care, or was there more to stay at home or care avoided? The bill does not provide for an evaluation. How does the Minister intend to gain insight into the effects of this in the Netherlands? Has it been in contact with relevant target groups and what are its intentions if this proposal is adopted? Does she keep in touch with the target groups? Does she know how to explain exactly what this means to them and that it does not say anything about other expressions that also fit within their religion? Then there's the feasibility. Transport companies were not positive about this ban. Earlier, in 2006, a committee of experts in the report Recitals to a burka ban indicated precisely that there is a lack of regulation in this area in the light of safety. This provided an argument for this bill. Has the Minister consulted transporters on the effects of this bill and has it been able to explain why it considers it added value? What does the Minister now think of the scope for action for a bus driver and what practice does she envisage? In education and care, there are differences of opinion and we have also received reports from several quarters that one considers that one's own house rules are sufficient. I've already asked questions about that. The same applies to more colleagues. I look forward to the answers. The Christian Union Group believes that the government has rightly opted for a limited ban to promote quality and safety in education, care and public transport, as well as in public institutions. It shares the considerations made in the fundamental rights test. We still have questions, particularly with regard to social impact and feasibility. I therefore look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u80	Mr. Chairman. According to the government, the legislative proposal we are discussing has been of an urgent nature for years. Despite that, it took the government a small year before answering any further questions from this Chamber. I find that difficult to interpret. Perhaps the Minister could clarify this. What is the social problem addressed by the proposed law? It concerns several hundred women in the Netherlands who wear a nikab and do not automatically take it off when entering public institutions. This way of dressing, whereby women hide from other people as much as possible, does not appeal to my group. The wearers may think it is the utmost of virtue, but we do not think that women and men should relate to each other in this way. As far as we are concerned, it is not an enrichment of Dutch culture. On the other hand, we do not consider the nikab a typical Islamic costume because 99.9% of the Muslim women in our country do not dress like this. But however critical you may be about it, wearing eccentric clothes in public space, whatever motive behind it, should not be prohibited. That would be too much of a violation of personal freedom for the government, even in this case. The aim of the present proposal is therefore to ban the wearing of facial clothing in educational institutions, public buildings, health care institutions and public transport vehicles. This is because, I quote the government: 'the importance of mutual and recognizable communication for quality services and security'. The SP Group can follow the consideration that for good communication in certain places a limited impairment of the freedom to dress as you wish may be required. We believe that this is not an unacceptable violation of personal freedom, let alone religious freedom. We also see this confirmed by judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which considered even a wider ban, depending on national traditions, acceptable. But for us, the question is whether this law is the most appropriate means of achieving a selective ban on facial clothing. The Advisory Section of the Council of State states that if the wearing of facial clothing could in practice be mentioned as a problem in the Netherlands, this is a problem that can be solved without legislation. In addition, I note that it is already being resolved in practice. Of all the social sectors mentioned, only problems are known in a number of educational institutions. And that's where the competent authority has declared house rules banning facial-covering clothing. Those rules have proved to be sustainable, even after review by the College of Human Rights, and have solved the problem. Therefore, this law is not really necessary, although some schoolbodies, according to the Minister, would see the law as a little support. In the public sector, according to the Minister, house rules of this kind are sometimes and sometimes not laid down. In both situations, we are not aware of any further problems. I ask the Minister whether she is also in the same position. The Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Interprovincial Consultation have not taken a position on the law. For a sketch of the situation in the healthcare sector, I now quote the Minister's response: "The Royal Netherlands Society for the Promotion of Medicine supports the importance of communication, but considers that a ban on facial clothing in care is unnecessary, because there is an identification obligation that regulates that someone should show his or her face at the desk and because the doctor in the surgery can ask to show the face, which rarely leads to problems. This has also been confirmed by some healthcare institutions. At present, no use is made of banning facial clothing in house rules, but in some cases rules have been laid down for employees in a general sense." So much for the Minister's sketch. Also with us there are no problems with wearing or not taking off face-covering clothing in the care. As far as the concern is concerned, we are a little concerned by the Minister's reaction that if mothers stopped going to vaccination programmes with their children because they did not want to take off their nikab, which is their own responsibility. As if it is not important for the health of the child and of others to benefit from maximum participation in vaccination programmes. We shouldn't be making laws that cause problems they haven't been in so far. Will the Minister take up this point again? Our group has asked the Minister why the government's reasoning that on the public road no ban on facial clothing is necessary because the need for open communication is less heavy and there is already a duty of legitimacy does not also apply to public transport. In the first instance, this is answered by the statement that people in public transport are in contact with each other and that communication in which they can look each other in the face is then necessary. Of course, this reasoning does not apply to passengers on bus, tram, metro or train. They don't have to talk to each other at all. And many, especially women, do not want to be stared at by other passengers. On our further questions, the Minister mentioned as a new argument that people experience it as unsafe to be in a vehicle with people wearing facial clothing. This may be the case for some people, but as a frequent user of public transport, I find that there are a lot of other non-prohibited outfits and behaviors that make you feel at least as unsafe. There is also no beginning, if the feeling of one should determine how the other may dress. Furthermore, carriers are not in favour of the proposed ban. According to the Minister, they indicated that such a ban could provoke reactions which would not serve public transport safety. In other words, they fear problems that are not present at the moment. If we look at the various sectors which are to be banned, I will summarize as follows: where there was a problem, such as in education, an adequate solution has been found in the sector itself by setting house rules. In other sectors, such as health and public transport, there was no need to ban facial clothing and no need to impose a legal ban. In spite of these facts, as it itself reflects, the government maintains a legal ban, because a uniform regime would avoid confusion and provide legal certainty. But we do not see any confusion about the current, sometimes different, house rules in the social sectors concerned. Not with the workers, not with the customers, nor with the nikabbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb. The Minister has not so far mentioned any facts suggesting this confusion. Perhaps the Minister can do that after all. We do not believe that any new law is necessary for legal certainty either. All house rules on face-covering clothing have, in so far as they have been challenged, held up legally. However, we agree with the government that it may be good to lay down a general standard in a law. But it has not yet been said that this is the most appropriate way forward in this case. The government also cites as an argument for the bill that, with a balanced balance, it puts an end to years of discussion about whether or not to ban facial clothing. If this were the case, we would welcome it. But we doubt it. For the time being, it seems more like a difficult compromise has been reached between two parties who are in fact not in agreement with each other, which these parties, now that they are no longer a government coalition, are once again running away from. At the moment, our conclusion is that the intention of the legislative proposal is broadly correct, but that it risks exceeding its objective by opting for a clear design that does not suit all the sectors concerned. The need for legislation is therefore not yet established for our group. Perhaps it would be better to pay more attention to the principle of subsidiarity. So what can be regulated by a lower body, in this case the institutions concerned, cannot be regulated by a higher body, in this case the legislator. This also fits better with the Dutch tradition of sovereignty in its own circle, I say to my colleagues in this house. My group looks forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Madam President. I wonder if the Minister has ever had a tour of this Chamber's building. Then she would have been in the Gravenkamer, named after the portraits of the 36 graves that have all been visited in the Netherlands. When you study those portraits, you can see that they're all recognizable by the eyes, the facial expression, the line of the mouth. In short, there's a lot to see in all those faces. But there's one that stays hidden. From the tradition we know it's about Count Floris IV, but otherwise he's unrecognizable. Because he's got the visor of his helmet in front of his face. So we can't recognize him, we can't make an estimate of his age, of his appearance, of his inner body. Saillant detail: he's so portrayed because the best man in the armor died. Not during a real war or a terrorist act, by the way, but during a tournament. Moral of the story: anyone who looks at the paintings and studies them well always gets stuck with this one painting. What's this? Who is this? Something doesn't add up: he has facial covering clothes and that seems to make us insecure about his person, about his intent, about his life. I would like to reiterate this feeling, in order to explain why the SGP group can follow the intention of the law well, namely the ban on wearing clothes that cover the face entirely or cover the face in such a way that only the eyes are uncovered, or make the face unrecognizable. We like to be open, transparent, insightful. That also offers safety. I understand very well that this bill has ever arisen from the reaction to burka or nikab, but I have focused on the general issue of facial clothing in my response. In addition, there is a growing feeling of unease in society when there are terrorist attacks in other countries. As a result, we are increasingly alert in the Netherlands: who is actually walking into that school, which people are at a big event? We place cameras and we ensure transparency. This also puts very well-meaning Dutch citizens in the position of feeling that they are being followed everywhere. In short, the demand for transparency and security costs the citizens of the Netherlands something, something of their individual freedom, of their privacy. Is that a problem? In a sense, it is, because that privacy is harmed and sacrificed to that security and transparency. The question to the Minister is, of course, how did the government deal with the weighting of security and privacy within this bill? That is a problem to weigh up. However, the government is called upon to make choices. Especially since, if things go wrong somewhere, the same government is called to account. Hence the SGP's view is that openness and visibility may be a requirement in the public domain. Of course, there is also the aspect of cultures and traditions. Face-covering clothing can also have to do with Islamic culture and tradition. For example, it calls for freedom of expression and freedom of religion. This is a sensitive subject, but still the question to the government: what does the government want to do about the widespread displeasure about the non-Western culture entering the public domain? In fact, this is often about refugees who, in most cases, want to settle in our country because they are looking for freedom. But our country is not value-free in that sense. Here there are also values and norms that have grown in the Christian tradition. Does the Minister agree with this view? If not, what are the consequences for those who, for example, carry a burqa? If so, how can the government implement this properly and carefully in the integration of people from other traditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u83	Mr President, may I ask Mr Schalk, through you, how does he get the impression that the wearers of facial clothing are often refugees? That's not my impression at all. I would like an explanation of that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u84	If I suggested that, I'm gonna fix that. I didn't say refugees often wear face-covering clothes. But there are many refugees from countries where Islamic religion is the prevailing religion. If they're here, they may have the tradition of wearing face-covering clothing. And then I ask the Minister: what do we do if these people come here? It is not quite free of values to come to our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u85	However, I would like a clarification from Mr Schalk on this question. Does he think that the government has a role to play in the freedom of religious experience and clothing of people entering our country? Is that what Mr Schalk is trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u86	Thank you for this question. Here you come to that very difficult area of religious freedom, where wearing face-covering clothing can be part of. People who come here in this case are about those refugees who choose the freedom of the Netherlands, may also be confronted with the fact that the freedoms here are not unlimited. There are traditions that people can be held to. I think the government has a job in that. The government must ensure, for example, that good values are transferred, that education is given in traditions and in the composition of our country and in the way in which we organise things, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u87	Mr Schalk is, of course, quite right on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u88	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u89	That is why we also have an integration course and a participation statement. It says, for example, that women can also be the boss of an institution or that it is customary to shake hands. But the question to Mr Schalk was what he thinks the government should do. He believes that the government should take a step to find something about wearing facial clothing. Does the government have to think of other traditions as well? I mentioned earlier that there are certain schools where you are expected to come with a skirt. Does Mr Schalk think that the government should step into the freedoms of how you dress and how you express faith for people who come as refugees, but perhaps also for others? That would surprise me in his party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u90	There is a danger that we may confuse a few things. Those dress rules in schools are examples of home rules that apply schools and that may sometimes be amazing for people from totally different countries or from their own countries. So you're gonna have to explain something about that. What I have tried to argue is that people who come in here with facial-covering clothing are going to stay out of the question for a moment if they choose to do so from their beliefs or because they have to, because then we do not get to hear a very different, difficult discussion from the government that they should not do so throughout the country. That is why it seems that a kind of exhaustive list has been chosen. At least I understand that from the answer. In this solution we say that it is customary in our country that we can see each other in public buildings "face to face," to use a beautiful, biblical expression, because it also allows you to see what we mean. I am also looking at Madam President and Mrs Nooren and I think we can see each other's intentions by looking at each other's facial expressions. That is why we do not debate it from our place of residence, although it would be technically possible, but we do so here. I think that's what the government is trying to do with this bill. That is the aspect of visibility and transparency. However, I have also started my speech on safety. I think that is a very important extra point. I will come back to that in a moment, because I want to get away from a discussion about just the burka and such. Because of course there are also a lot of other cases where we unfortunately find that people use face-covering clothing to kick riots or do other business. I'm also very curious about how we deal with that. The government has chosen to make the ban on facial clothing subject to a restrictive list: educational institutions, public transport, public institutions and health care institutions. Can the Minister explain again why this exhaustive list was chosen? Does the Minister foresee that this ban should be generally applied in more than these places in the future? There are also practical questions to ask about these buildings. What about if the government uses part of a corporate collection building? And do you imagine that there are multiple entrances or that it's a larger complex, then does this apply to the whole building? I also thought about the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam and the 4 May commemoration last month. He was pretty frustrated by people who wanted to pressure that dignified meeting. Is such a church, and perhaps the surroundings, considered a government building? And I also have a practical question about educational institutions. School buildings are sometimes used for other purposes. According to the government, the ban on facial clothing will apply in this case when it comes to activities "in any way related to education." Isn't that just a little confusing? How does it go when the school building for non-educational meetings is rented out? Madam President. My group also has some questions about the limitations of this bill. The government is not going as far as more and more countries in Europe around us. The Minister has given the reasons, so I am not going to repeat them. But in any case, the government considers that a total ban on facial clothing goes too far. However, there are situations that can be overlooked. Why, for example, does this ban not apply in the case of out-of-control sporting events, where there are always rioting supporters? Or more generally: why doesn't there be a ban on facial clothing at all demonstrations and demonstrations, so that the police know where it is going? Why doesn't there come a ban on demonstrating with masks, ski masks and integral helmets, to use the examples mentioned in the bill or in the explanatory statement? This can be done under the motto'monstering is fine, but with an open vision', as we are holding this debate with an open vision. Madam President, I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u92	Madam President. Our group, like all the other groups, has also raised questions about the proposal that we are discussing today, for example about whether there could be symbol legislation here and whether there are unnecessary restrictions on freedom of religion here. We also wondered whether this proposal could be maintained. Finally, we, as the CDA Group, give preference to self-regulation and self-organisation of institutions and companies over government regulation. On the other hand, it was quickly clear to us that this bill contributes to the quality of service in education, care and in public buildings. Similarly, the legislative proposal undoubtedly promotes the sense of security of citizens who are unintentionally confronted in public transport with persons whom they are unable to look at today, as has already been said. We also understand that wearing face-covering clothing does not contribute to the integration of other cultures and the emancipation of women from these cultures, widely supported goals in our country for many years. As a party to society, we attach great importance to self-organisation and self-regulation, as I said. We are confident that, in sectors such as education and care, civil society organisations, businesses and trade associations are often able to regulate themselves. With the Council of State, we consider it plausible, in the case of facial clothing, to quote that the sectors mentioned in the legislative proposal have sufficient possibilities, if necessary, to prohibit themselves or give individual indications. In fact, they are much more likely to be able to implement rules and decision-making tailored to the specific circumstances. Nor do we have any indications that it has already been said here today that house rules in schools, hospitals or public buildings or conditions imposed by transport companies could not be sufficiently sanctioned. So there would have been a lot to say as a government to rely on the self-regulatory capacity of society, in particular those sectors where wearing face-covering clothing can cause problems, and to give these sectors the space and time to impose or encourage, within their own sphere, restrictive house rules or job requirements. Moreover, it has not previously been found that the problem is so great that the competent authorities in education and care felt the need to lay down rules. In the pieces we read that in the Netherlands it would be between 200 and 400 people wearing face-covering clothing. That's on average one in every congregation in our country. In its opinion, the Council of State states that it is unlikely that schools, public institutions, transport or care will be affected by this phenomenon on a somewhat relevant scale. The reflex of the legislator, the government's reflex to impose uniform rules in response to a limited number of incidents, has raised questions for my group. That is why I would like to ask the Minister again what she thinks of this. Is there such a social problem that the government cannot better rely on what I might call "the art of living together citizens" and on the ability of social sectors to overcome differences in religion or culture through communication between professionals and citizens or through measures at the bottom? Should not the legislator intervene only if there is a serious gap or if, in the absence of uniformity, legal uncertainty or uncertainty arises for that citizen, i.e. only when organisations act so differently and thereby create confusion about the interpretation of rules? This is all the more so because the wearing of facial clothing involves a very limited number of people and, perhaps even more importantly, what can be experienced by other people. I carefully choose my words as a violation of the freedom of religion. Our group, as we know, attaches great importance to this fundamental right, which is also enshrined in Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, restrictions can only be imposed by law in the formal sense or outside buildings and closed places by lower regulations in the interest of health, traffic or public order. Finally, questions have been raised by my group about the enforcement of the ban laid down in the legislative proposal. My group would like to hear from the Minister how she sees it. How does she see enforcement in the case of a mother dressed in a burqa or nikab who gets on the bus with her two children? Or the same mother who reports with her sick child to the outpatient clinic of a hospital or joins her school-based daughter in school for the six-monthly parent interview? In such a case, who will enforce this prohibition laid down in the law? How does the Minister intend to prevent the children concerned from being harmed by this ban? We also raised this in the written procedure. If the CDA Group does not understand the partial ban now before us, I might hear you think. Sure you do! We are pleased that the government has waived an overall ban. That would have been a bridge too far for us, as the Council of State in its opinion told us as legislators. However, wearing face-covering clothing hinders open and free communication. It is a sta-in-the-way for the integration of new cultures, the inclusion of non-thinkers, the emancipation of women, core values of our democratic rule of law. For equal treatment, it is essential to be able to look the other in the eyes, read his or her body language. Freedom of religion... I'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u93	Well, I was just waiting for you to finish your sentence, Mr. Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u94	Yes, I had started a new one again, but it was really about something else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u95	Oh. Mr. Linthorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u96	The name was Lintmeijer, chairman. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u97	Mr. Lintmeijer, excuse me. Mrs Linthorst has been here in a previous Chamber. I was just getting off the path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u98	I'm in big shoes; I hear it. Maybe two things. Mr Rombouts indicated that wearing a burqa could stand in the way of emancipation, if I have heard him correctly. Would the ban on wearing a burqa, whether limited or not, promote emancipation? How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u99	Will you allow me to answer the question in the course of my speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u100	Sure, I'll hold off on my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u101	It is a matter of balancing interests between the freedom of religion and the other interests that are at stake, the core values I just ended with for the interruption, the core values of our democratic rule of law. For equal treatment, it is essential to be able to look the other in the eyes, read his or her body language. The freedom of religion is a great good thing, but the wearing of a burqa or nikab, as far as my group is concerned, transcends those limits which are equally worthy of protection in our western society, for the benefit of the bearer but also for the benefit of other Dutch citizens. The compulsory wearing of facial clothing hinders the equality between men and women. The voluntary burqa or nikab also prevents the social integration of women and restricts them in their chances of actually participating in social life. My group considers the emancipation of all women to be equally good and wants to protect vulnerable groups. Expressions that promote inequality do not, in our opinion, fit into our democratic rule of law. In addition, many Dutch people show us that a sense of insecurity takes hold of them when they are unwittingly confronted with people wearing facial clothing in government buildings, in hospitals, in schools, in stations, on the bus or on the train. They feel unsafe when they cannot see someone's face and hands, when the body language cannot be read from the person who meets them. In enclosed spaces like a bus or train, that is all the more so. But also in education and care, it is essential for the quality of the service that professionals can actually have visual contact with and know who they are dealing with. In particular, in sectors where the sense of security also determines the quality of service. This has been said many times here today, but that is the disadvantage of being one of the last speakers. Madam President. My group is interested in the Minister's answer to the questions raised, in particular on self-regulation and enforcement. She is also curious about her reaction to us perhaps a little more basic argument about the art of living together and the confidence that the government should give to citizens, civil society organisations and professionals in education, care and public transport in order to find a workable and liveable balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u102	I have listened carefully to your carefully chosen words. I wonder whether Mr Rombouts has answered my question as to whether a burqa ban does contribute to emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u103	There are two categories of people who wear a burqa: people who do it voluntarily and people who do it compulsoryly. With the voluntary carriers you may assume that they make the choice on the basis of beliefs of themselves, whether religious or not. When they become mandatory, that is a category that needs our extra attention. I think that's behind your question, too. Then it is important to protect them and to find something of them as a Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u104	Mr Rombouts' assumption is certainly correct. I also said in my speech that we do not know exactly who goes down the street voluntarily or forced with a burqa. The cabinet also states in its reply that we do not really know that. Couldn't we have done a good impact assessment in advance? Or can we at least now strive for a good evaluation in which we will get answers to those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u105	I understand what you're saying and what you mean. I also heard you say it in your own contribution. But even then, I had the reflex of: we would like to have an impact analysis for all legislation today. If we can do it, then the question is whether we know what we want to know in order to take action. I'm almost at the end of my speech. You will find that I have experienced a certain struggle in my position on this bill. My group too has discussed the pros and cons, the pros and cons. In the words that I am about to choose, but also with the questions that I put behind my last sentences, I want to make it clear that in this house you can say 'that's how we're going to do it and this is the norm', but that the norm will eventually be made between people in practice, whether it's the norm for a burqa or a nikab, euthanasia, abortion or donor registration, as we've been talking about here recently. We can say what we think is good for the Netherlands.We are for that too, and we have to do that, but what happens in a hospital, in a school or in a bus, people do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u106	Finally, Mr Lintmeijer, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u107	I very much agree with the latter. The norm is determined by society. Sometimes we lay it down in a law, but that does not stop the discussion. I very much agree with Mr Rombouts. This is the second cliffhanger that he builds into his speech. I'm looking forward to his final consideration. Maybe we'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u108	I also recognise the struggle of the CDA group from my own group. But we are not free here, we are here as a parliament to make a choice in these considerations. There are many possibilities in these sectors in which this choice is followed. How do you appreciate the fact that these sectors are choosing their own path? That is another way than a legal ban. That's the way of house rules or not. I mentioned all the youth care institutions where they say: if we want to bring these children closer to us, then we will engage in dialogue. Or the obstetrician who says, no, I can't explain it in the hallway, but in the delivery room, I can make it very clear why I need to see the face and maybe do other things to do my job right. Then you make that connection, then you have that dialogue and then we totally agree that if you can see each other, that's better. Moreover, I would like to point out that there are 300,000 people who cannot see properly. It's nice that you can see well, but it's even more important that you listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u109	I can pretty much follow you. Let me just say in advance...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u110	A word from the chairman, Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u111	Let me say through you, Madam President, to Mrs Nooren that I have spoken about a personal struggle with where to find the interests. My group may not have used that heavy word 'wrestling' and I do not use that word on their behalf. I have said that we have asked ourselves what is for and against here. I actually wanted to do some kind of pre-announcement with the word "wrestling." At the end of my speech, which is being postponed more and more, you will see that this struggle is best expressed by not ending with firm statements, but by asking a few more questions after perhaps a standard has been set here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u112	I feel a little confused to postpone the end of the contribution a little further, but still. I appreciate the words of Mr Rombouts, who has delayed the choice a little bit: should I now choose the path of gradual regulation in society itself or at least that legal ban? For the latter, he bases himself on some of the principles he spoke about. I also heard women's empathy and open society. These are very important points. Does it help him to consider that in the legislative proposal itself, the government does not actually mention these principles as the purposes of this law, but is strictly referring to communication relating to the quality of service on the one hand and safety on the other? So that is much more limited than the principles which you have just examined in the second part of your speech and which are also relevant to you for the question: how do I ultimately deal with this choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u113	You are trying to put a line in your story at home, in preparation, that is right, because it is part of the debate that is interrupted by interruptions. I think it's best that I read the third part now. In that I answer the best that the three interrupters have meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u114	Then I'll give you the time. I've stopped the clock at the interruptions, but do you realize you've been over your time for half a minute? Anyway, I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u115	Thank you. My group is curious about the Minister's response to the questions raised regarding self-regulation and enforcement. She is also curious to answer the basic argument about the art of living together and giving trust to citizens. However, I do not wish to conceal in the first term the tendency of my group to vote in favour of this bill. You can hear me very well, because our group certainly has hesitation. Due to its relative relevance, this draft law appears to be anti- and anti-symbol legislation. However, sometimes it may be necessary to give a powerful signal, draw a limit, non plus ultra, sunt certi denique fines. Symbols have that power, but they also have a deeper layer, less formal, less definite, leaving more space. The founder of analytical psychology, Karl Gustav Jung, a Swissman, formulated this as follows: "A word or an image is symbolic if it reveals more than the most obvious and direct meaning. It has a wider, unconscious aspect that is never exactly defined or fully explained." Symbols give meaning to our lives and they reveal a deeper layer in our consciousness. Mr President, I really will conclude with these questions. Is this perhaps the case with today's bill? Is a partial ban partial, hear the doubt of the legislator himself.. a symbol, a handle for professionals in education, care and elsewhere? Is it a hold-up in concrete situations to do good with the wisdom of the head and the softness of the heart in everyday practice, based on this legal standard? Is this law not, in this way, a standard which must be applied with common sense and with a good heart rather than a commandment or a ban which must be enforced without hesitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u116	Is this the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u117	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You have nothing to fear from me anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u118	Then you will be over your speaking time for 2 minutes and 53 seconds. Then Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u119	I think it is a wonderful presentation on symbolism and I want to go a long way along with that. But if I understand that the CDA Group uses symbolism with a double layering as the basis for legislation, I am very shocked, because I think that legislation should be unambiguous, not multi-interpretable and unambiguous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u120	I really do not understand Mr Lintmeijer, because he said here only a few minutes ago that he himself understands that the norm to be set by the legislator is not something that I do not run away from in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u121	But then we're talking about something completely different. That standard is being set in society and that you sometimes set standards in legislation, I agree with that. That is different from using a double-base symbolism, which you said almost literally, as a basis for legislation. I also said in my answer to your question that the fact that we set that standard in the law does not automatically mean that the discussion in society ends. Those are what really different considerations come to my attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u122	I think quoting Jung by me might bring you to this interruption. The last thing I wanted to point out is that we, as a parliament, have been called here to set the standard. It must also be maintained, but in how it is maintained, can we be so relativistic, even as a legislator, that in practice people must always choose to do the right thing in concrete situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u123	I have to think very carefully about what Mr Rombouts is saying, but I feel a few layers. I am curious to see what standard he wants to set by means of a symbol with this legislation. This is different from the fact that in the sectors covered by the dialogue there are people's reflections. Then I am curious to hear your reaction to the fact that these sectors have said: do not legislate on us, because we are capable of doing so precisely because we are in a position to do so. They say: by explaining the reasons, we can do our job and guarantee quality much better than when the legislator goes over our backs. 'Cause that doesn't make aid workers feel that space. So I do not understand the final conclusion of the CDA Group. If you think it is so important what happens in that office or in that classroom, that it is about explaining symbols, values, values of one another, I do not understand why you need the legislator in a situation where the people concerned say: do not do me any law. Who's helping you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u124	I think that in general you cannot say that all those involved in the Netherlands have said that they do not want legislation. That's not what they're asking, and that's b. such a complex field that you can't point that in one sigh. Of course, I have also read what the Council of State says about this, namely that there are no indications of that. That's also an assumption. Furthermore, in my first sentence, I have stated that we have made a pro- and counter-weight. It says that we have asked ourselves questions about what is before and against this. It's not easy to handle. Then, on the one hand, there are the issues I have mentioned of freedom of religion, of enforcement, of self-regulation and of possible symbol legislation versus those other very important interests to defend, safeguard and safeguard western fundamental values in our society and to set the standard for people to use as a guideline for their actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u125	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u126	And which Western standards are better enforced with a legal ban than in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u127	I believe that we are sending out a signal, a symbol, that we find integration, emancipation and security interests in our society which must now take precedence over freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u128	Then Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u129	Each group comes to a conclusion for its own magical reasons, of course after the answers to the relevant questions have been given. I won't go in there either. However, I would ask Mr Rombouts, not unfairly as I now conclude that, if you support this bill, you will not do so because of the government's objective of the bill, but for much broader reasons, such as the emancipation and all the Western values you have just formulated. For they are not contained in this bill, not even in the justification of this bill, not in the explanatory memorandum and not in the explanatory memorandum. They are really limited to communication on quality of service and safety. You, of course, have every right to include other subjects, but I conclude that you are not therefore concerned with the objectives of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u130	Everyone has their own motivation to say in parliament why he chooses a certain signal for a particular law, a certain standard, a certain symbol. We have taken on board the government's arguments, adding a number of arguments which I believe are more than widely shared by coalition and opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u131	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the bill does not discriminate, because it concerns all face-covering clothing. The most controversial point is that it relates to wearing a nikab or burqa. It restricts the general freedom of choice of clothing in our country. This also affects the fundamental right of freedom of religion and, where appropriate, freedom of expression, which is guaranteed in the Constitution and in a number of international treaties. No right is absolute. Even these fundamental rights can be restricted by law, but restrictive legislation must be justified and the restriction of rights must be proportionate to the interests to be protected. The government motivates the violation of fundamental rights by arguing that facial clothing is at the expense of communication and therefore of responsible services and security. That, if I understand the government correctly, is not equally important everywhere. It does not have too profound consequences everywhere, but apparently it does in educational institutions, in public transport, in public institutions and in health care institutions, and so the wearing of nikab or burqa is prohibited. Such a measure is controversial. All these institutions were allowed to take measures themselves, but they did not always do so. The problem to be combated is small, because there are very few women who wear a nikab or burqa, and freedom of religion, including freedom to live up to its obligations, is a great asset. Moreover, the measure targets women who are already marginalised in Dutch society, either compulsory or voluntary, and this may mean that they will refrain from any more meaningful contacts. Especially in education, this can be detrimental both when it comes to self-learning and when it comes to contacting the children's school. In health care, it works the same way. The Council of State therefore concludes that there is hardly any solution to a problem and there are disadvantages. Yet all of this seems to me to be pro and contra, not the whole story. Of course, an almost completely covered face gives unrecognizability and so it gives the risk that there is someone with other intentions than may be assumed. And of course, such an almost complete cover can disrupt the necessary communication, although in practice this will usually be due to the poor management of Dutch. But what can determine the concrete encounter in practice is the fact that this exceptional pregnancy is strange to us, so strange that it gives many people an uncomfortable feeling. And that, of course, is indeed an obstacle to communication, and that does not in itself create insecurity, but a feeling of insecurity or uncertainty. During the Republic we knew hiding churches and a ban on Catholic processions. That ban on trial was a law of local authorities recognised by the Constitution until 1983, although it was not often applied anymore. The background was, of course, that too exuberant an experience of Catholicism in the Protestant-dominated parts of the country could lead to unrest, even fear of Rome's power. We have therefore always had freedom of opinion since the time of the Republic, but certainly not always freedom of religious expression. We do not need to talk this right, but perhaps the conclusion should be that we are now looking at a religious experience that is even more strange to us than the Catholic processions, because they were also from Western Christianity. And this conclusion actually applies, and precisely so, to the vast majority of Muslims for whom this is also a form they have never known and which is very strange to them. The bill provides a limited interpretation of the ban on facial clothing and therefore leaves much room for showing this form of Islam in Dutch society. That's right. We have learned that we do not want to restrict people in the perception of their religion, except when there are good reasons to do so. Limited communication and the feeling of insecurity are reasons for a somewhat arbitrary, but rather limited ban. This seems to me to be justified, but not only because of the more or less rational consequences. It also seems to me to be justified because such a limited ban, which is clear and manageable for the sectors concerned, indicates that we want to leave everyone as free as possible, but that this expression of religious belief is so strange that we feel uncomfortable about it. This law, with its modest effects, will not change very much in practice. I imagine that very often there will be tolerance in the event of a violation. I won't propagate that, but still. But this law, which imposes a uniformation that can be useful, but which will ultimately have a very limited material effect, also sends out the message that this form of Islam does not really fit in our society, because it is disruptive there. Perhaps that will bring me close to Mr Rombouts' symbol. I am at peace with the fact that, without imposing many restrictions, we are also trying to deliver that message with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u134	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the legislative proposal 34349 Establishment of a partial ban on the wearing of facial clothing in education, public transport, public buildings and care (Law partially prohibiting facial covering clothing). I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to all Members for their initial input on the legislative proposal before us, which indeed, as has been said, regulates the banning of facial clothing in education, care, public transport and public buildings. In your first term, it became clear that this bill has a long history. Several proposals have already been made by several MPs and by different Cabinets about the admissibility of wearing facial clothing. But it is the first time that your Chamber has considered it. So the present bill is the result of years of discussion and it aims to clarify where wearing facial clothing is, and where it is not allowed. I believe that the debate here also shows that there are different views on this issue. For some of your groups the proposal seems to go too far, and for others it does not go far enough. Mr Schouwenaar was right to point out that the proposal is religiously neutral, while there is, at least for me, every understanding that the debate is also conducted in terms of freedom of religion. The fact that the proposal is approached from such different points of view also makes demands on the legislative proposal. One is that there is a clear standard of wearing face-covering clothing. Another requirement is that a fair balance be struck between the freedom for citizens to behave and dress as appropriate to them, and the general interest of mutual and recognisable communication and security. With this proposal, the cabinet believes it has found both this clear standard and that fair balance. In a free country like the Netherlands, everyone has the freedom and also the space to behave and dress exactly as they do, as long as the freedom of others is not restricted. This freedom can, and should, sometimes be set limits in places and in situations where communication is at the expense of mutual communication, thereby compromising quality of service and preventing security from being guaranteed. In these cases, the legislator has the responsibility to define the limits of that freedom. This proposal for a partial ban focuses specifically on those places and those situations. A general legal ban, which would extend to all public places, goes too far in our view. That would not do justice to that cherished right in the Netherlands that people have to decide for themselves how they want to walk the streets. They don't necessarily have to communicate on the streets. And there are rules for situations where there is reason to want to identify people. I would stress that it is preferably up to the legislator to define a uniform line. Where freedoms and sometimes fundamental rights such as religious freedom are restricted, not only democratic legitimacy is of great importance, but it is also necessary to lay down the restriction in a formal law, and not just in all kinds of regulations. A great deal of objection to the legislative proposal is that there are opportunities to set house rules within institutions and sectors. The cabinet considers it very important that the legislator provides clarity, uniformity and legal certainty here, not only to the institutions, but also to the people who go to the places in question. It is necessary because it is about conflicting interests and about individual freedoms. The wearing of face-covering clothing is not widespread in the Netherlands. This does not in itself mean that the legislator should not impose any limits on this. It is a general standard for everyone and this provides clarity whether, and where wearing facial clothing is acceptable or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u136	I understand the Minister's argument that a far-reaching restriction of freedom would be a good way to lay that down by law, and not by house rules. But isn't it true that if this law is passed, in all sectors outside the law that freedom can still be restricted by house rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u138	That remains unchanged, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u139	That's right. Mr Köhler and others asked the same question. I'm going to answer a few more questions in a very specific way. That's true. But it is precisely the legislator's choice to apply the ban in a limited way. This means that in these places the norm becomes clear. But that does not prevent specific house rules within those sectors which, of course, have to comply with the law. There are also opportunities to see specifically in an undesirable situation, as it occurs. So Mr Köhler is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u140	Then there is the question of whether there is some kind of arbitrariness from where you draw the line. Because why can't the gas station and the supermarket with their own house rules and why can't they do that in bus and train?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u141	That's a very good point I'm about to make. We want clarity and uniformity. I have just argued that a total ban would go too far in our view, but that we focus on those places where communication and its extension are of great importance. These sectors, that is what is happening in the public domain. For the rest, that is the other side, and with that the proposal also does justice to the input I have just heard from Mr.Lintmeijer.We give people in the Netherlands a lot of freedom to choose what they want to look like and how they want to behave. That's why I think this limitation is a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u142	That's not the answer to the question of how random is the boundary you draw. Because communicating on the train is not strictly necessary either. By the way: the silence coupe is a considerable limitation of my right to communication on the train, but we are not going to legally arrange anything to change that either. The question remains why petrol stations and supermarkets, or anyone else, are supposed to be able to regulate this with their own house rules and not public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u143	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to deal with these points more specifically if I am going to answer all the questions. I can also give you a structure so that everyone knows when I will return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u144	Sounds good to me. But Mrs Nooren wants to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u145	Following on from the previous question, I hope that you will agree in your speech that you are choosing sectors where house rules work well. If you want to achieve uniformity, as a legislator, you choose situations where proportionality and subsidiarity cannot be regulated in regular traffic. But that's not what the legislator chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u146	I can assure Mrs Nooren that I will go into this in detail in a moment. Mr. Chairman. To finish my brief introduction: I am very aware that the introduction of this partial ban will also affect women who have chosen to wear facial clothing and thereby express and fulfill their religious beliefs. How this will work out in practice for these women is not entirely predictable, because people will make and also have to make personal choices. It is true that the legislator is allowed to impose restrictions on the exercise of religious duties and freedoms. This can be a legitimate objective and also necessary in our democratic society. The judgment is that this is the case here. Mr. Chairman. I would like to structure the discussion along a number of lines here. I will deal with a number of questions of a more general nature, then with questions about the necessity, the scope and the consequences of the proposal internationally. I wanted to address questions about fundamental rights. Then there are the different sectors, i.e. care, education and public transport. A number of questions on the enforcement of the law and, finally, a few questions that I could not place elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u147	Do you think you can do all that in an hour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u148	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u149	Very nice, very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u150	May I start with Mr Van Hattem of the PVV, who felt that it would have taken a long time before the First Chamber received an answer? This while the bill was marked as an emergency, he said. Well, this cabinet found the bill the way it was. It was classified as urgent, because it was part of the intentions of the previous cabinet, it was part of the coalition agreement. It is then customary for such legislative proposals to be marked as urgent. In any case, we felt it necessary to look carefully at the answer. Finally, the ban also covers various policy areas. That alignment has indeed taken some time, but you now have it. I have already said something in my introduction about why there is no general ban. That was also a question from Mr Van Hattem. The choice that has been made also reflects a bit of the struggle I have heard here this afternoon. On the one hand, individual freedoms and the space for one to behave as it pleases him or her and on the other hand, that we never want that freedom to lead to restrictions on the rights and freedoms of others. So, in my opinion, this has been carefully weighed up in the legislative proposal: on the one hand, the social importance of good communication and recognition of citizens among themselves and its impact on the quality of service, and on the other hand that freedom, which we also cherish. The conclusion that follows is that this is a partial legal ban. That's legitized. So I do not agree with Mr Van Hattem that a total ban would also be justified. Mr Van Hattem also asked what period the bill could enter into force. Well, the entry into force must be carefully prepared. This means that the institutions must have the space to implement this, to instruct their staff, to possibly adapt house rules and to communicate about them. This remains to be discussed in the sectors concerned. In fact, I would like to look in consultation with these sectors at what is a good time for entry into force. It depends on that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions that have been asked about the necessity. I thought it was Mrs Nooren, but there were others, from GroenLinks to CDA, who were actually all asking: is there a real social problem that really justifies legal rules? Mrs Nooren just asked that in the event of interruption. Others asked: what exactly are there barriers? Because there really must be some serious reason why I agree with those who have argued that legislation should be adopted. These reasons do not always have to lie in the scale of the problem. Because I said just now: wearing face-covering clothing does not occur on a large scale in the Netherlands. But that does not necessarily mean that the legislator should not be allowed to set boundaries. Just the fact that it has been debated for years, that there is such a difference of opinion about the scope of a total ban to no ban, that we recognise with each other that there is a balance of interests, that I have heard many of you, including those who do not seem to be in favour of the bill in advance, say that there may be an inconvenience in society where people do wear facial clothing in certain places. All this must be taken into account, where the choice has been made for legal certainty and uniformity, namely a standard that provides clarity for everyone where the support for facial clothing is and cannot be accepted. In my opinion, this is also preferable to just house rules, including in these sectors, which, in their own opinion, may or may not be established. The legislative proposal promotes uniformity and clarity. If you then argue, as Mrs Nooren did, that without this law it is not necessarily unsafe in these sectors, I agree with her in itself, but if you try to get a little more out of it, I think that Mrs Nooren and I can agree that communication between people in some places is crucial. That's what it's about all the time. It is about places where people should be able to meet each other, for example in public transport, where you do not have the choice. You have to travel by public transport for whatever reason, and that means you're in a small room with other people. Then communication, also through facial expression, is important. There are of course other places, namely the general public space, where many people come but where you have much more choice in communication than in education, in healthcare and in public transport. That is the reason for choosing these specific places and these specific sectors, not for a total ban and not for the opposite, namely not a standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u151	I would like to ask the Minister a more specific question: as regards public transport and communication, I can assume that the Minister does not mean communication between passengers, but only communication between the passenger concerned and the NS officials, the bus conductor or the bus driver, within the framework of the quality of service. When it comes to communication between people in public transport and between passengers, there is no fundamental difference from the rest of the public space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u152	It is certainly also about communication between passengers and the conductor, the controller or whoever is in it, depending on the means of transport, but it is also about communication between citizens. In doing so, I make the distinction between public space, where citizens come together but where you have more space to choose where you walk, bike and stay, and the space you can't choose, such as in a care facility, in the waiting room, in education because your child goes to school or in public transport. So it's about the communication between professionals and people coming in, but it's definitely about citizens among themselves. Then it can also be about what you have just spoken about, namely the sense of security that people want and the social security that people want to experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u153	It is good that the Minister explains this further. This raises a new question for me: is it about safety as such, which is more of an objective standard, or is it about the feeling of safety between people? I'd have a lot more trouble with that last one. I believe that the debate has already taken place on the basis of subjective individual feelings. There are a lot of people I feel a little less safe with, but that's not a reason for government intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u154	I can imagine that, but I think there was just a moment in an interruption talking about what people can derive from facial expressions. That has to do with your feelings, of course. So there's a certain amount of subjectivity in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u155	I was hoping that the Minister would also talk about security rather than just uniformity and communication, because I think a lot of people will have a sense of insecurity once they don't see what someone else is doing. So would you like to position that a little more firmly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u156	The choice has indeed been made on that feeling. People could have that anywhere; that could also be out here in the Binnenhof or in another public location. However, we choose to standardize this in a limited number of places and not in other places. That has to do with the fact that it is difficult to choose there. As far as education is concerned, children go to school. The same is true in the care, and in the waiting room in the care. And the same goes for public transport. In our view, that choice justifies saying that people there need to be able to communicate with each other. That can only be done if the expression of the face is part of it. It is therefore about communication in those places, where the choice is actually more limited and where the degree of freedom is also more limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u157	I understand from the Minister's words that this is one of the reasons for the exhaustive list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u159	I also asked whether this should not apply to events or demonstrations. Perhaps that will come later in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u160	Sure, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u161	Let's talk about the point of uniformity and choice. We have freedom of education. We have invented a system in which people can choose the institution freely. If you want to meet the freedom of choice, you should not regulate it legally. Then you make it clear in the house rules: someone can walk around with a burqa and not there. So you are actually hindering freedom of choice in one direction, because it is not that there is no choice. You can choose a school where you have to behave in a certain way. You can consciously opt for an educational institution. That market organization is precisely what makes it possible to think differently. So I do not understand why uniformity and choice should be linked in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u162	It is a consideration; I agree with Mrs Nooren. It's a trade-off, a choice. This choice is limited to a number of places where the importance of uniformity and standardisation in the eyes of those in favour of this proposal outweighs individual freedom. I also agree with her that there is still a great deal of room for individual choices, for example in education, but it does not see a choice in facial clothing or not. But of course all kinds of other forms of individual choices remain completely intact. This proposal does not alter that at all. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna keep going at this point. Mrs Bikker actually asked about this, but she asked whether additional house rules would be possible even after the entry into force of this law. The bill doesn't rule that out. It is therefore still possible to lay down additional house rules, even later within the law. I just said that the staff should know how to deal with the ban. I think it is also good that institutions clarify how they communicate about the ban and how they will deal with it. So these house rules remain possible. Then there is a question that I should have answered earlier: Mrs Nooren asked if I now have a look at the number of carriers of the burka or the nikab, because that will often be the case in practice. Actually, that's very difficult to estimate or to say. So we don't know exactly. There hasn't been a recent investigation into it. The numbers mentioned are 200 to 400, but that is an estimate and is not based on any more precise research. This was also a question from Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u163	I gave you my own personal impression. My impression is that this is based on one city, in which I cycled around a bit more is that this is increasing. Even when the bill comes into force, I wonder what the effects are. The Minister actually mentions estimates of the number of carriers I saw in 2009. So it's really been a while. Doesn't the Minister still have that interest? What is her interest in fact-knowledge in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u164	I would, of course, lie if I were to say that my desire for factual knowledge would not be very great, because it always is. But it is a fact that we do not know exactly. What I can do, of course, is to look at what has happened in other countries with a similar ban, although that often goes a little further in other countries. That gives us some indication. In France they think, but it is not very hard, even there, that the number of carriers of nikabs and burqas has decreased after the ban. I think it is a good thing that we are trying to point this out here too, but yes, I can only say that there are no figures other than those that have apparently been used for a number of years. I have no indication that that number has increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u165	Then two points. In 2009 it seems to be possible to reach a number, or at least a bandwidth. Then I find it rather patient, also in the answers of the minister's predecessor, but it is in those shoes that she says that it will not be possible after that. Let me say this as a comment, but there is also a question of reflection, which the Minister does taste. Secondly, I am curious about these effects, because I see two possibilities: someone drops the burqa and participates in society again, which would be to be applauded, or someone sits inside. I understand from Austria it's fifty-fifty. If we don't know how many people they are now, then we can also be very difficult to estimate what the effects are; whether that's fifty-fifty or totally different. Hence my call for even greater reliance on facts, however much I welcome the fact that the Minister has them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u166	Mr. Lintmeijer, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u167	In addition to this, but perhaps also in anticipation of the answers that are still to come: if we want to know more precisely, let us really carry out a serious evaluation and investigate it seriously, not only with regard to the numbers of secs, but above all with regard to the effects it has on the behaviour of women with nikabs and burqas in particular. I don't know, Mrs Bikker doesn't know, the Minister himself states in the answers that she doesn't know. That's still thin ice to skate on, isn't it? Let's make the deal that we're gonna launch a solid evaluation. At the moment that there are results, we can also consider how we deal with these outcomes. Does this lead to new, additional measures or fewer measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u168	I understand Mr Lintmeijer's argument, but on the contrary, the reason for the proposal for a limited ban on the wearing of facial clothing is not that it concerns large numbers. In fact, I have just argued that this is not the case. We do not know exactly how many people are involved in the case of nikabs and burqas, but I do know that these are not large numbers. That is not the reason for the bill either. I'll come up with possible behavioural effects and consequences of this later. In my introduction I said that it is difficult to predict; it is highly about human behavior. However, I agree with Mr Lintmeijer that it is important to know whether this leads, for example, to avoiding concern or not going to court and that sort of thing. That's very good to know. I also very much agree with him that we should keep an eye on this, even if it is not about large numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u169	A supplement. Indeed, it is not about large numbers. My group is concerned about the effect on families, if it turns out that it is indeed fifty-fifty; if women stay at home and do not go to school with their children, do not go to the doctor with their children and therefore also drag children into unmistakable isolation. Then the multiplier effect is greater than I would like, even if it were only two people. As far as we are concerned, an evaluation or a good study is not only meant to know exactly, but also to see if we need to act when these effects arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u170	These would be undesirable effects, I agree with Mr Lintmeijer, even if they are small numbers. Other solutions are conceivable for this. Practice will have to prove it, because I can't prove it, that people will often choose to let someone else go with that child or to solve it in a different way. I also have a great deal of faith in the professionals we are dealing with, including care and education. I think that we should also give this space to people, to see if they can come up with good solutions in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u171	Mrs Bikker, one more time at this point and then it's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u172	Mr President, I agree, but I would like to have answers to the questions I have just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u173	Mr. Lintmeijer, also at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u174	I'll be right back. The minister has a lot of confidence in the professionals, but the essence of the argument that several groups have held here is that professionals are also quite capable of dealing with women who come in with a burka or nikab without legislation, so you don't have to do it for those professionals. The minister says that she has a lot of confidence in these professionals in the implementation of the law, but they say that that law does not make it easier for them. I think that's a circular reasoning that bites itself in the tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u175	No, because it's two different things. I like to express my confidence in the professional in general terms, but also within this law. The law was not made at the request of these sectors, but will help the sectors to have a clear standard and to act within that standard when that standard is in place. The confidence that I had just expressed in the professionals saw precisely the harrowing situations that Mr Lintmeijer feared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u176	The answer to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u177	I think she was referring to the question about the numbers and to her desire to have more factual knowledge. I agree with her, but so far it has not been possible to get that very precisely. If the law has entered into force, we can try to get a look at it. I'll certainly do my best to do that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u178	Is this a promise? That saves me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u179	It is absolutely a commitment to do my best, but I am well aware that it has been very difficult so far. I don't think this will necessarily be very easy after this law, but I think it's good to keep an eye on it. Perhaps, in reply to Mrs Bikker, I can also comment on the international situation and what we have learned from it, because that is something of a hold-on. I mentioned France, where such a ban has been in force since 2011, throughout public space, by the way. According to the French Government, the number of wearers of facial clothing has decreased by half following the introduction of the ban. Fines have been paid. By the way, they're quite easy to measure. There were over 1,000 to 2014, so in a limited period of three years. The enforcement of the ban takes place in most cases without the use of coercive measures and especially without the emergence of public order distortions, fortunately. In Belgium, where the same ban has been in force since 2011, no figures are known. Recently there has also been a general ban in Austria and Denmark, but that is relatively new, so there are no figures yet. Mrs Nooren also asked whether it could have an adverse effect on people with an Islamic background, on their right to confess their religion as a minority. The bill is religiously neutral. It doesn't just look at the burqa and the nikab. It sees the communication, the recognizability in those places where people meet each other. In that sense, I do not think that what Mrs Nooren fears needs to be done. It clearly sees on face-covering clothing. It doesn't look at expressions of a religion. There are a lot of examples and forms of this. The nikab and the burka are only a small part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u180	Just so we're clear, it's a struggle. We have a law on which we do not know how it will work. If we're gonna predict that, it's gonna be hard for all of us. I didn't mean those 200 to 400 people involved, because I think we had a good debate about how you should be able to see each other's faces in order to get some things done. The question is about the implications of the law for a broader group, which you can think differently about. What tone does this government give you, to which you are a part? I understand this government is saying: is that a topic of conversation, would you like to map it out? What effect does this law have on that? How do you, as a D66 minister, look at a target group that says, "Oh, why do you have to do this, because things are going well now?" That's the question I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u181	I'll tell you what I just said. I am talking about the reason for the bill, which does not look at expressions of beliefs but at communication. My predecessor has spoken to a number of nibblers. There are certainly mothers who say that if this law comes into force, they no longer want to go to their child's school, for example. That effect will certainly be there. On the other hand, there are women who say they prefer to go to their child's school. It is therefore a very personal consideration that people will make and where it is difficult to make a general statement about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u182	Mrs. Nooren, but I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u183	Then I'll join Mrs Bikker. It would be nice to know the effects of this bill on the connected society in order to be able to give some effect to it, because perhaps a legislative proposal will come after this bill. It is good to know what effect such a law has on cohesion in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u184	I can tell from Mrs Nooren's input and others that there is indeed a great need to map these effects. Caretaking is such an effect. Furthermore, I call it the effect on schools. I'd be happy to tell the Chamber that I'm keeping an eye on that. I imagine doing so by talking to organisations that have something to do with that. That may not be as quantitative as Mrs Bikker would like, but at least gives us an idea of the effects it has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u185	The minister says the law is religiously neutral. That may well be the case in the wording of the actual legislative text, but in the explanatory statement Mr Van Hattem has already pointed out it is indeed a law that has been initiated from the perspective that we want to get rid of the nikab and burkka as part of a religious expression. So in the wording it may be religiously neutral, but that is not the reason and the explanations given. The question is, even if it is religiously neutral, whether there is any form of indirect discrimination in its effects. It does indeed work out in this way with a special group, which is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. So I'm not buying the story of religion-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u186	Still, that's important. Whatever the reason, when making laws, we must respect that starting point. So I actually attach that principle to that formulation of religious neutrality. I haven't put down any seats or benches either, and I don't think anyone here is saying that in practice it's mostly about nikabs and burqas, but it's important to say that it's also about other forms of facial covering clothing, even though they're even less common than the nikabs and burqas. As a basis, as a fundamental rule, religion neutrality is an important starting point. That doesn't affect the practice it sees fit to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u187	Finally, Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u188	If that principle is religious neutrality and the cause is something that is not religiously neutral at all, then my question is whether we should not be talking about indirect discrimination in its effects and whether it is desirable in the drafting of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u189	No, because it does not see a group or a religion, but it sees the desire for sufficiently open and transparent communication with each other and between citizens and bodies in those places where communication is important, also because of security, social security and the other issues that have just been listed. Mr Rombouts spoke about trusting professionals on the one hand and the need for legislation on the other. I have just gone into the issue of communication in detail. I also referred to uniformity and legal certainty. I think having one standard would help with that. I think it also helps for the same professionals I spoke out my confidence in just a moment in interrupting. This applies not only to situations which would lead to really poignant cases but also to everyday practice. So I think Mr Rombouts and I actually agree on that point. Then I will deal with a number of questions about scope. Mr Köhler asked whether there were in practice any problems of people wearing face-covering clothing in government buildings. There are not really any concrete problems that are also a cause for this bill. That has to do with what we have just said, namely that it is not about numbers or very specific problems. It is about the importance of uniformity and legal certainty, as support for the sectors that may be affected. About the choice of places we have already changed a few things. Mr Schalk mentioned a specific place, namely De Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam during the commemoration of 4 May. His question was whether it should be there or whether there should be a specific ban on that place for the time being. The Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam is not prohibited. It's not a government building as referred to in this bill. What can be done is that due to the specific occasion of 4 May, visitors may be asked to identify themselves. That's a possibility. Mr Schalk also mentioned the example of school buildings which could, of course, also be used for other purposes. That school building is covered by the ban, even when it is used for other purposes. The law is unambiguous in that: The New Church is not, even though it is at that time used for a government function, and the school building is, even though it may be used for something other than school in the evening hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u190	In the reply, the Minister indicated that the prohibition applies at the time when it is an educational-related activity. That led me to this question. But if the Minister can now confirm that there is no doubt that the school building is always covered, then we have clarity about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u191	My understanding is that I will check it out in the break later that because the building is still under the control of a school board, the law applies, even if the building is used for something else. There are a number of points on fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u192	Are you going to go into residential and non-residential, private space and no private space? This is also about the scope of the legislative proposal. Are you gonna come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u193	I would like to comment on this when I go through the sectors. Then there is fundamental rights. In my view, the explanatory statement clearly explains the proportionality aspect. We have just discussed the limitation to a few places, the neutral wording, the non-specific focus on religious clothing and a sanction in the lowest category. All this contributes to proportionality. The understandable and correct question was asked whether we are sure that the proposed ban meets the criteria set out in Article 9 of the ECHR. A fundamental rights test was carried out in the drafting of the legislative proposal. After considering all the interests involved, it is concluded that a partial ban can pass the test under Article 9 of the ECHR, insofar as it entails a restriction of religious freedom, because a restriction is finally permitted provided that it is established in the law, serves a legitimate purpose and is proportionate, including subsidiarity. So a restriction of freedom may be allowed if it serves a legitimate purpose and is proportionate. The European Court of Human Rights has allowed the ban on facial clothing in France and Belgium. In these countries it is a far-reaching ban because it sees the whole public space. So I think we can say with confidence that it can actually pass that test. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Nooren asked: how do you see the possibility that people wearing facial clothing do not have access to the College of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u194	Mr President, I apologise for letting the Minister pass on to the next block, that I was just walking a little too slowly to the interrupting microphone. I have already pointed out in the first instance that the government itself stated in the written preparation that proportionality and subsidiarity are also part of that constitutional test. In short, are there not less radical measures possible? And the means must be proportionate to the purpose. I have not actually seen any reaction from the government in the documents on subsidiarity in particular. And even now, I thought for a moment that the minister was ignoring it. That is the relationship between what is already possible in the sectors that designate the legislative proposal on the one hand and the far-reaching and far-reaching prohibition under the law on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u195	I think Mr De Graaf is right. I have just outlined the conditions for a ban to pass the ECHR test. I have mentioned proportionality and subsidiarity. I have just gone into more detail about proportionality, also quoting from the explanatory statement. At the beginning of my term, we already exchanged a little bit on subsidiarity. Of course, subsidiarity is also a choice. There is the current situation in which everything can indeed be regulated through house rules, but the legislative proposal states that this is suboptimal, because it does not set a clear standard. If you limit yourself to house rules, then there is no clarity in those places where this bill is seen, where clarity, I think, for both the people involved and the people who work there helps in dealing with these cases. So that's the choice: the choice of setting a uniform standard for equality and legal certainty in that respect. And here comes the proportionality test, as I have just explained. As I said just now, a restriction is allowed provided that it meets the criteria I have just mentioned. I will continue with the question about the College of Human Rights. The CRM assumes that the introduction of the partial ban on facial covered clothing means that those persons would no longer be present if, for example, they had proceedings in court or at the college itself, of course. I can easily sympathize that this could lead to a discouragement for certain people to enter such places, including the college itself. However, the right of access to justice does not prevent rules from being imposed on, for example, clothing, i.e. clothing or a ban on facial clothing. It fits inside that room. Here too, it is important that it is not about banning religious symbols, but about banning facial clothing in general. Mr. Chairman. There's one last question in this block. Mr Schalk asked: how do you manage security and transparency on the one hand against religious freedom and privacy on the other? I will answer that question, because that is, of course, an important question. It is also in line with Mr De Graaf's question which I have just answered. It is, of course, about the possibility of restricting freedom of religion and privacy. That is the possibility that exists and the possibility that is now being used in this legislative proposal. I just argued that. The aim is that the restrictions are justified, and that is due to the choice of communication at its core, and consequently communication for the purpose of providing services and communication for security purposes. I hope that I have answered Mr Schalk's question sufficiently. Mr. Chairman. Let us now turn to the sectors. A number of questions have been asked. Let me not try to summarize them. I'm just gonna answer them. Mrs Nooren started with the question: do you recognize the image that the quality of care is already being secured, because the caregivers actually make sure that the nikab or the burqa does go off? There is already an identification requirement in the care and there is also the possibility of a dress code. And that's what happens in some health care institutions. But there is no clear rule regarding facial covering clothing in the care, while in the care that communication is so important. In order to avoid discussions on this issue, it is in our view right that there should be a clear standard, with general legal requirements, so that there should be no discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u196	Mrs. Nooren, can you keep it until the second term? Or is it imperative that you do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u197	No, it can be done in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u198	Mrs Nooren also asked a question about the care-avoidance. I have just said, in relation to other sectors too, that it is, of course, a personal choice that people will make themselves. It would be very undesirable for people to refrain from visiting the doctor, but I do not think that will have to be the case in practice. Another question from Mrs Nooren was about the residential parts of a healthcare institution. Others have also asked questions about this in the first term. An exception is made for residential parts of care institutions. It therefore takes into account patients who are long-term residents of a care facility. For those patients, the care facility is actually their home situation. Long-term care often involves people with intellectual disabilities or a psychogeriatric condition. They spend a long part of their lives, their whole lives, or in the final phase of their lives in a care facility, but it's actually their home. A perspective of independent living or living in a facility other than the care institution is actually not there or no more. Therefore, there is also a competence of the board of a healthcare institution to allow face-covering clothing to be worn in non-residential parts of the care institution by clients or patients staying there or by their visitors. So that room is there. I think the essence of the matter is that when drafting the bill, too, it was never intended to prevent those people, for whom the institution is actually their home, from making this choice for face-covering clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u199	The Minister repeats what I said myself and what the bill says. That's the easy part. And now the question: which parts do and which parts do not? We have also asked questions about this in the written preparation. You say it comes to uniformity. And then we get a bill in which you as director of an institution to the one person who is admitted to the nursing home must say: sorry, you are here for hip surgery, so you might go home again. So if you're going to have coffee with your partner, you can't wear your burqa. There's someone in that same department with onset dementia, whose perspective is that he or she should stay, and then it's okay. Do you mean "residential" only the bedroom, or is it also the living room? Or does it depend on whether you live in a housing unit or not? You're talking about uniformity. That is a term that is repeated over and over again. And I don't see the desired uniformity for the concern with this bill. In fact, I see a lot of confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u200	On this point, I clearly have more confidence in the professionalism of the healthcare institutions than Mrs Nooren. It is very clear in the bill about residential versus non-residential. In my opinion, care institutions can determine very well themselves, where there are different target groups in a healthcare institution, which part is and which part is not. Moreover, the legislative proposal also provides for the power of a board to exclude certain groups in certain parts. So I think that customization is important here and that the law also offers that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u201	Finally, Mrs Nooren, on this point. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u202	In my opinion, you can expect the legislator to ensure that the law is clear on where it is and where it is not, and on what part a driver should rule. I've been looking everywhere. I am well-known in the sector, but I believe that the legislator's sector expects it to be clear about where the boundaries lie between private spaces and terms such as'residential'. Of course drivers can. That's why they get out of their way with the house rules and don't need the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u203	I understand. That's Mrs. Nooren's position. I respect them, of course, but the question is: Is the law clear? I think the law is clear because it distinguishes between residential and non-residential. Then I come to Mr Lintmeijer's question. It was actually about the same thing, but then in the schools. In the schools it is about the school building and the school square. That's clear enough, too. It's not about the sidewalk or public space around the school. There must be no misunderstanding about that. That's what the bill says. Mr. Lintmeijer also asked about enforcement. We must imagine, as is the case with the enforcement of minor offences, such as the smoking ban, which is initially addressed to the person concerned. In the second instance, the person concerned is asked to leave the building. In third or fourth instance, if there is reason to do so and if this has not yet led to the desired result, the choice may be made to call on the police. Mr Köhler also focused on avoiding care, for example, and the consequences for children or the elderly. I have just argued that this would not be the desired effect of the bill, because it is important that people continue to take good care of their children and go to consultancies, but it is a personal choice of parents. I just said I don't expect any big effects, because I expect people to choose another solution if they really don't want to take off those face-covering clothes. However, I cannot give guarantees for this at the moment. It is something that we will have to pay attention to. I have just promised Mrs Bikker that I will remain in dialogue with the institutions. Just a few more things about public transport. Mr De Graaf has asked for it. At the very beginning of my speech I have already argued that in the vehicles the possibilities for people to avoid each other are much more limited than on the platform or at the stops. Hence the choice: in public transport, but not outside in areas where people have the choice to stay or not to stay. Mrs Bikker asked if we had had discussions with the transport organizations. This has been done, at least officials from my ministry have been consulted with the transport organizations. For them too, the added value of the legislative proposal is that there is uniformity about what should and should not be done. The transport organisations have indicated that they are prepared to draw up an instruction for drivers and conductors, which sets out how to deal with situations in which people continue to wear face-covering clothing. This makes the perspective of action clear to them. Enforcement. I've already said something about that. As I said in reply to Mr Lintmeijer's question, it applies to schools, but of course it applies to the whole of the four sectors. At first, it is up to the institutions themselves. They must draw up proper instructions for this purpose, so that people know what action they have in mind. They should give people the opportunity to adapt, to leave the building or vehicle, or to take off the garment in question. It is only in an escalation that we imagine that the police could be deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u204	Apologies, Mr President, but this answer differs from the answer given in the reply in which the government says that institutions or organisations involved do not have to act actively. However, the Minister is now talking about working with instructions for people working in these sectors. This brings employees, who are often in a vulnerable position, into a role that does not fit them, because they need to be enforcive. They're not authorized to do that. Maybe they don't even think it's necessary, but that aside. How does the Minister see that? Is that what the reply says, that it is up to the institutions themselves what they are doing, or does the Minister say: there will be instructions for all the institutions involved and for all those staff, more than a million in the care, on how to act if something like that happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u205	I have just said in reply to the question from the PVV that I want the starting date to depend on how the consultation with the institutions is going. I think it is right and proper that institutions want to have a clear view of what action they have. We cannot make institutions and professionals in healthcare, education or public transport responsible for enforcement. That would be weird. That is why I outlined, as with the smoking ban, that it is logical that institutions themselves should have a kind of manual on how to deal with this, how to act when what is no longer allowed from the entry into force of the law. The first thing you do, like all of us do in our daily practice, is appeal to someone. If you know there's a ban and someone's breaking it, then the first thing you do is appeal to the person. That is different from what Mrs Nooren is describing, as if the staff were suddenly responsible for enforcement. That is not the case, because if the appeal does not lead to an adjustment of behaviour, I said just now, then it is obvious that the institution will involve the police. I do not expect this to happen in large numbers because it is not about large numbers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u206	Finally, Mrs Nooren, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u207	I understand that, by way of derogation from the government's answers so far, the Minister now states that an active role of the organisations concerned is expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u208	I certainly do not deviate from the reply. I will look very closely at this wording at dinner break, but as I now outline it, my expectation is that with this ban institutions will want to know in hand what scope for action they have. I'm referring to the driver, the caregiver and the teacher. Then it is logical that the institutions themselves should draw up a manual, but once again, the enforcement is of course never with the professionals I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u209	At this point. How am I supposed to imagine that? Someone's coming up with a burka on the bus. The driver says, "Drop it off." That does not happen, whether due to lack of communication or whatever. Should the driver stop the bus? Should he say at the end of the road, "Will you sit down for a while?" Should he call the police in the meantime? Doesn't this lead to some kind of escalation that we don't want at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u210	I have faith in the bus driver, but it is important that the bus driver in front has been made clear by his employer what the rules are. I am really confident that, depending on the situation and whether or not there is any nuisance or an annoying situation with other passengers, the bus driver will get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u211	Finally, Mr Lintmeijer, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u212	It is not a question of whether we have confidence in the bus driver or whether or not this law leads to an additional complication in the behaviour of the bus driver, the conductor or anyone else. My concern is that this law does not solve a problem, but causes a problem that leads to escalation in the place itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u213	I do not think this has been the approach of those who have drafted the law, especially not my approach. The opposite could also be the case, which is unclear as to whether or not it should be. That is what the legislative proposal is looking for, namely by drawing up one standard for it. I would like to give the institutions ample opportunity to consider what action they want to give their own employees in the light of this new law. Then there are a number of other questions. First, a supplement. The conversations that have taken place in the previous period, including by my predecessor, with women wearing facial cloaks, have not given the impression that people will ignore this ban. People just say they'll adapt, or they'll get out of these places. We have, I think, sufficiently discussed enforcement in this respect. I hope that I have indeed answered the questions that have been asked. Then I come to a close set with a number of other questions. Mr Van Hattem listed a number of organisations that have made a joint appeal against this law. It is of course a fact that wearing face-covering clothing is seen by certain currents in Islam as complying with a religious rule. The fact is that this is a small minority in the Netherlands. I have no opinion of what these organizations find, say or sign. It's up to them. They are, of course, free to express their views on this, as other legislative proposals often give other organisations their views. That is part of our democratic rule of law. Mr Van Hattem asked me to indicate whether the application of what he referred to as the uniform ban on public roads under Article 435a of the Criminal Code could possibly apply. I had to look that up, of course, you understand. That article is about giving expression in clothing to a particular political pursuit. Wearing a burka is not about that at all. This does not take into account the pursuit of a particular political establishment. It therefore does not fall within the scope of this article of law. At least in general, that is the starting point, because in very specific cases it might be different, but that would have to be assessed by the court. Mr Schalk of the SGP spoke about integration. I have just said that this does not see on religion or religion. I have no indication that this affects specifically refugees or people with status in the Netherlands. It is true that we are now paying a great deal of attention to language lessons, but also to the way in which we look at society in the Netherlands. This is called knowledge of society and participation. Attention will be paid to the core values and freedoms that we consider important in our society in the Netherlands. But once again, I have no indication in itself that the bill that we are dealing with here is touching on the issue of refugees and integration. Finally, a question from Mr Schalk on demonstrations and demonstrations. This proposal focuses on buildings rather than on public space. There are usually demonstrations and demonstrations. There's a law for it: the Public Contests Act. That law already regulates that restrictions can be imposed on expressions of people in public space. So if the situation so requires, in practice there can already be a restriction on the use of facial covering clothing at that level. But this always requires a weighting of the specific relevant circumstances and is also a balancing of local authority. In doing so, I hope that I have answered all the questions asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u214	I'm going to go on about that last point. I know that there are public events in this Act, but that means, for every mayor in every place or in every municipal situation, that regulations need to be re-established every time. That may mean that this didn't happen, but that something is getting out of hand and that you're actually chasing the facts. At the moment there are demonstrations and such people with facial clothing that is very often meant to riot or whatever. You could turn it around and say: face-covering clothing simply should not be allowed at demonstrations for which permission has been requested and where police have been sent. If that's somehow settled in the law, you're helping the police a lot, because he knows what she's up to. You're going to help municipalities, because they know: normally it's not allowed, but in special situations, assuming it's part of a certain demonstration, it can be discussed in advance and everyone knows where it's going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u215	Well, for starters, this bill doesn't look like it. It's not about public space, it's about specific locations and buildings. Secondly, I understand Mr Schalk's view. You can turn it around. You can also say: with this possibility in the Public Events Act, local authority has an additional instrument in its hands, where it is thought relevant. I know from practice that this is sometimes applied. But it is not always necessary to apply it. So I can actually get out of my way with the Public Events Act as it is now. In my opinion, many local authorities can actually use it very well, although I understand Mr Schalk's approach. But I do not think that it is a problem in practice at the moment, because where the authority, or the triangle, fears something of this kind, one can easily say: we are banning it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u216	There has just recently been an example of a place where it was apparently decreed. The police say to people a few times: stop it. Under Article 9 of the same Public Events Act, the whole demonstration was cancelled because at that time there was no right of action for the police. That's the reverse world, isn't it? I know that this issue from the government is exhaustive. That's why I asked questions about it. I will not be in favour of this bill either, but you could think about a follow-up to it. Let me put it this way, and let me also make sure that both municipalities and police can come up with clear choices in terms of face-covering clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u217	I have no plans to extend the present legislative proposal further, I can tell Mr Schalk. The Public Events Act provides for this. Such restrictions may be imposed if the situation so requires. Of course, there is a situation where you can say afterwards: perhaps we should have put that ban in place, but that did not happen. In general, I think the law will do as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u218	I understand the Minister has finished her first-term response. Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u219	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 34349 Establishment of a partial ban on the wearing of facial clothing in education, public transport, public buildings and care, also known as "the partial ban on facial clothing." We are at the reply and thus arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. I do have a number of points on which I would like to speak. First of all, I would like to mention the Minister's response to the question of entry into force. The Minister indicated that he would first consult extensively with the sectors. It is in itself fine to allow this consultation to take place, but can we have a time indication? How long will it take until the law actually comes into force? Is the Minister also prepared to actively inform this Chamber about its progress? We'd love to hear that. Furthermore, the PVV regrets that it is not being continued with a total ban on wearing facial clothing, including on the public road, so that we can also ban burqas and nikabs in particular in public space. In this context, I would like to comment on the answer to Article 435a of the Criminal Code, which states that it must be aimed at a particular political objective. I would like to point out that wearing face-covering clothing, such as burqas and nikabs, is indeed a political aim, because it is aimed at Sharia, which can form the basis of an Islamic state. To have mentioned that name: IS, Islamic State, has indeed shown political intentions in recent years. We also know the burka from the Taliban in Afghanistan, and the same applies to that. There is also a political desire to establish a state in which the woman is structurally subordinate and must walk under a burqa. After the Taliban was driven out of Afghanistan, we saw women taking the burkas off there. Here in the Netherlands we now see the opposite happening. On the contrary, we are seeing a Talibanisation taking place in the Netherlands, with more and more women wearing burqas. And that's a state-of-the-art development towards a Taliban state that you shouldn't want. That is what you should be able to do with this article of law. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on how she looks at this point from this point of view, in addition to the law that is now before us. There was also a response from the minister to the letter from the Islamic organizations in the Netherlands. She says she doesn't have a judgment on this; she lets them send a letter. However, there is now a letter from both Salafists, to which many legitimate objections are raised in this Parliament, and from all kinds of mosque organisations, which openly cooperate with them. And the government is directly involved in these mosque organizations and cooperates with them. My question was whether the Minister might have a particular opinion on this. How does she feel about such organisations working together to protest this law and that a Fawaz Jneid is working with the mosque in Roosendaal, which is being held up by the local council? Isn't that a very worrying development? Let me now turn to the contributions of the various groups that we have heard in the first term. I would also like to say a few words about this. I hear D66 saying that wearing burkas is just a small social point. The Islamisation of the Netherlands is not a small social issue. D66 also says it's not a clear and present dancer. Well, Islamization is definitely a clear and present dangerer. We can rest assured that it is one of the great dangers of this time, perhaps even the greatest danger of our time. The burqa is, as one of the most pronounced expressions, a form which we certainly should not tolerate and which should therefore be combated as much as possible. GroenLinks even talks about promoting emancipation and indirect discrimination. If something does not promote emancipation and creates direct discrimination, it is the burqa and all facial clothing that is imposed on women, especially from their Islamic culture. It is contrary to what GroenLinks is advocating here and is therefore all the more reason to oppose this. It really runs counter to our Western values. Then I'm gonna join the SP. I hear the SP very critical about this bill. That's why I'd like to quote a quote. "The Minister has not opted for a burka ban. He has chosen to solve practical problems in practice, because wearing a burqa in education, in health care institutions, in public transport or in public institutions is really impossible. The Minister has taken a long time, but I think he has finally come up with a wise proposal. The SP can support that." And I will conclude by saying: 'It is a practical solution to practical problems and we are going to support that practical solution'. Those are literally the words of the SP spokesperson Ronald van Raak in the Lower House of this bill. Does the SP now say in this Chamber that Mr Van Raak and his House of Representatives have made a crucial error of assessment, that it is not a wise proposal and that all these arguments can go into the trash? How's the SP looking at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u221	I understand that Mr Köhler wishes to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u222	Yes, I understand I'm being invited to reply by interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u223	Through the chairman, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u224	Obviously through the chairman, otherwise it wouldn't be possible. But first of all, I would like to say that it is nice that the PVV Group clearly considers the debate in this Chamber to be a third and fourth term of the debate in the House of Representatives. We do not; we have our own input and our own views on this. I would advise Mr Van Hattem not to try to spread his methods over this Chamber, because he will not be able to do so. Then I'll get to the content. As I have said, we also see that it may be necessary to ban some of the places he has just mentioned, not so much on the burqa, because that is almost not the case, but on the nikab and other facial clothing. We therefore support the compromise of not a total ban, but a ban on places where it may be necessary for good communication. We have only wondered whether this cannot be done properly with house rules. I am actually surprised that the PVV, unlike in other cases, is so keen to have additional legislation and to have rules stacked up. I sometimes hear other sounds from that angle, for example when it comes to tax legislation or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u225	This is, of course, legislation that is useful and that creates clarity, rather than ambiguity. If we have all kinds of different house rules, you have a lot more different regulations. With one law, you create clarity for anyone who has to draw up house rules. I have to say that the input given by Mr Köhler in the first term differed substantially from what the SP put forward in the Lower House. I can't help noticing how the SP takes a different angle here. My question to Mr Köhler is how he arrives at such a completely different explanation. Now I just heard him make some nuances. If I listen to it like that, I can only assume that he will still support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u226	You'll find out later, maybe not until next week. But I would welcome it if I could also hear a sound of my own from the PVV in this Chamber in the future, and I regret it if that does not happen. We are not so keen to conduct the discussion in this way and, through your questioning, to answer the question as to how much our sound is 100% synchronised with that of the Dutch Parliamentary Group. That seems a little out of order to me. Our question is: what kind of problem is being solved? That's what I'm asking you. With this law, we are not getting the total ban you want, but a selective ban, which we are very much in favour of, in concrete cases. But that selective ban is already in place. So why does this legislation have to go over that? You will not get what you want if it becomes a general ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u227	Actually, I'd like to put the question back. Your spokesman in the Lower House says it's a wise proposal. He was very pleased with it; he praised it. And then I hear the criticism coming from the SP. Our criticism is clear. We wanted more, but that is not feasible at the moment. This law is before us, and this is a necessary step for tackling these burqas and those nikabs, which are fundamentally contrary to our Western values, and other face-covering clothing. We're just gonna go through with that. This is an important step that needs to be taken. But you're in such doubt. There's no clear sound about what the SP wants right now. If I hear Mr Van Raak A say, I hear you say B and it should eventually become C, then we will not be able to learn. So what does the SP want and what doesn't the SP want? That is completely unclear to me. What we want to do is to tackle the burqa and the nikab and to combat Islamization. That is simply a clear task for the PVV. This law can play a role in this and contribute to it, but for me it is completely unclear about the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u228	A brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u229	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u230	Through the chairman and certainly not from the benches! Mr Köhler has the floor on the debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u231	Yes. I'm just trying to think along with Mr Van Hattem. I've been a little trained in that over the past two years, but sometimes I can't do it anymore. At first he had very clear criticism of my contribution in the first term, because I had clearly said something different than our group in the House of Representatives. Well, so what would I think. But at least that was clearly something else. But now you say again that the position I have put forward here is unclear. I can't follow that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u232	You say... Sorry, Chairman. Mr Köhler clearly says that we do not think the legislative proposal is sufficiently clear. But your spokesman in the House of Representatives said: it is a wise proposal, it is practical solutions to practical problems that we can support. Do you not see it as practical solutions to practical problems? That's actually the point. We say: we are now putting down a bill that we can support and with that we can get to work. You keep doubting and very unclear about what the SP wants now. A large part of the SP voters, most of the SP voters are also in favour of a burka ban. Several opinion polls have shown this. You only keep a little in the middle of what the SP stands for. Then be consistent, choose the Western values and just support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u233	Finally, Mr Köhler. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u234	Yeah, I know. But I didn't want to devote it entirely to the PVV if you don't mind, Mr. President. I don't think I'm that unclear. The fraction of the SP in this Chamber is also in favour of practical solutions to the same practical problem. We believe that there may be selective prohibitions for reasons which I explained in detail in the first period. However, we wonder whether this practical solution, which is supposed to be clear legislation, is better than the practical solution that already exists, namely to ban it in those institutions where it is useful and necessary. That is one of the things that we generally discuss in this Chamber, as well as on the subsidiarity of legislation. We have put clear questions to that effect. You don't care at all about that question. Anyway, you're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u235	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u236	I don't share the conclusion that I don't care. Some useful questions have been asked here, but there have also been clear answers. All these directives laid down in those institutions should be able to be based on a certain legal framework. If rules are made there and they cannot fall back on anything, then it should not be the case that everyone has to go back to the College of Human Rights over and over again instead of simply being clear that there is a law on the basis of which these frameworks can be drawn up for the rules governing the house rules of those institutions. It is as simple as that, and I think the Minister has just explained it. It doesn't have to be more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u237	Can I remind Mr Van Hattem that I said in my first term that it is no problem at all for those institutions to make those rules if they want to? They don't have to go to the Human Rights College for permission. It is the other way around: some people who objected to this have gone to the College of Human Rights. At that time, the College said that the institutions that had proclaimed those rules were right. Now it's not being challenged anymore, so the problem is solved the way you and I want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u238	No, Mr. Chairman. The problem isn't solved. As soon as a situation arises, these institutions must go back to that college and be accountable. We must now move towards a situation where it is no longer necessary that institutions, that doctors have to justify themselves somewhere, because the law is simply on their side and not on the side of farmers. That is essential, and we must stand for it. We must make a fist against the Talibanisation of the Netherlands. That is what our boys have done in Afghanistan, and we can do so here with clear legislation restricting the burka and nikab. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u239	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u240	Mr. Chairman. My group thanks the Minister for the answers he has given. The debate so far shows that everyone, by all parties in this Chamber, attaches importance to communication with the opportunity to look each other in the face. This should not lead to the same conclusions as regards the desirability of facial covering. That is not at the heart of the debate today. The question is and remains whether it is necessary to adopt a law to introduce a ban on facial clothing and what signal you send with it. That's what the debate was about just now. On this point, my group does not find the Minister's answer convincing or convincing. not unambiguous. If I hear the Minister correctly, the choice has been made for legal certainty and uniformity. There is talk of uniformity and at the same time there is room for own rules. The impression of my group is therefore that the legislative proposal does not achieve the clarity that the Minister intends to achieve. Are we talking about removing barriers to communication in order to promote the quality of services and improve security? This has been central to the legal process so far. It also included places where it would not be possible to regulate such a legal ban without it. That was at the heart of the legal process so far, until we have the debate in this Chamber. But when I hear the minister, that's not what she's about. It is about regulating uniformity, setting a standard for which clothing you consider desirable in our society, which the PVV, as well as the VVD and the CDA consider an important pillar under this bill. I'm surprised. I would like clarification from the Minister on this point. Mr De Graaf has also asked a number of times. Is this about the essence of the legal process so far? Or does this minister intend to do something else in this cabinet? Then there is the question of the enforcement of the law. However, I would like to ask the Minister once again to clarify this Chamber and, as a follow-up, to the field of work, where the law applies and does not apply, especially when it comes to health care institutions. Terms such as "residential" and "private space" are not laid down in the bill or, as I mentioned earlier, in the laws on care. If she cannot give that clarity now, my request would be that if she talks with the field parties, she will give that clarity. Otherwise, you will have the counter-effect that 6,000 institutions will have to come to their own interpretation. Then you have a law and then you get house rules that are all different. Then we'll achieve nothing. There were two more questions that I asked about Thomashuizen and about care provided under the Long-Term Care Act on the basis of a personal budget. I think it is important for a field of care where a great deal of care is now provided through personal budgets to see when the law applies and when it does not, especially since a burqa may sometimes be mentioned in these situations. It is good to see that the minister has confidence in professionals in care and education. We have that confidence, of course. That goes so far, as was the case in the first period, that we are convinced that you do not need a law to guarantee the quality of service. Our question remains, therefore, why, with this confidence, we are moving towards a legal ban. That's a puzzle I haven't gotten enough clarity about yet. I also have a question on this point. Have I understood correctly that we are about to vote on a law, which the government, through the Minister, says to the care field: circumventing if necessary for the quality of care or the provision of services? Because the minister said at some point that the caregivers are smart enough to put the law aside and do what is necessary for care. Then what is the value of a law? I'd like some clarity on this point. When can the aid worker ignore the law because he himself thinks it is necessary? That also brings me to the manageability. If it is possible, I would like to have a more precise answer to the question of what exactly is expected of staff from relevant bodies and what they should and should not do. Do they allow personal opinions to play a role in this? Or will there not only be house rules, but also some kind of behavior directive? And what does that mean? Should people be trained in how to deal with that? I've got all kinds of footage on it, but I'm sure the Minister has a clear explanation. I'm also curious what consequences it will have if we don't act. If, for example, you look at the smoking ban, which was also mentioned earlier, then it is clear what the consequences are for non-action. But if this ban goes into effect, what consequences will it have for the bus driver, for the doctor, for the teacher if he doesn't act? Finally, I welcome the Minister's commitment to monitor the effect of the law, the access of members of the family, and I would like to see it as broad as education, care, court, Human Rights College, etc. And I was wondering if there was not a national security monitor or an investigation by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that has these kinds of themes, in which the effect of such a bill could be taken into account. I do not have a specific proposal for this, but perhaps the Minister does. On the basis of the second-term replies, I will discuss the final assessment of the legislative proposal with my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u241	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I call Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for the full and careful response. Nevertheless, I fear that my group is not really convinced. Maybe I should put it this way: we are still concentrated, but on a higher level. In fact, I note that, according to the Minister, there are no concrete problems, no figures that have any impact on the sectors concerned, no lack of opportunities to intervene through instructions or regulations in house rules, and no demand from the sectors to act. But it is still necessary. The motivation remains rather ambivalent. No symbol legislation, the Minister says, but nevertheless necessary to achieve uniformity and clarity. Why? Because communication between people is at stake, including the sense of security, in this debate extended to communication between citizens and not just between the service provider and the citizen. But that raises the question of why the ban is limited to those four sectors. Why, for example, does it not apply to situations where a lot of people come and people can also feel unsafe? It could be said with the same right and reason that such a ban applies there, for example in busy shopping centres or in sports competitions with a lot of public. I do not really get the finger on the reason why not there, but in education, and in those very different forms of care and in public transport, I do. Then I come to the protection of fundamental rights. I would also like to thank you for your clarification. The Minister says that the subsidiarity test should also be applied in the context of Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Less radical measures are possible, but the Minister says: no, it is not so much a question of this, but of a clear standard for all these sectors and not of measures to achieve the objective. This is also critical of my view, as much as I appreciate the attempt to give it some consistency. In this way, a subsidiarity test becomes a little empty. Because then you can always say: these measures are possible, these kinds of objectives are protected, the quality of service and safety, but it is not clear, it is not a general standard. It is difficult to maintain this in the context of subsidiarity. Mr. Chairman. I have one last question. I asked a director of a public transport company: what are you doing now? The answer was that in principle they did not refuse anyone and that they asked their drivers to deal with this generously and respectfully as long as people behave in accordance with the general travel conditions. My question to the Minister is: if these bus drivers continue to do so after this law has entered into force, is that not enough? Should that company then give other directions to those bus drivers and say: once you see someone with a nikab, you must tell them to take it off? Or isn't the bus driver actually a standard address for this law? Then you can say, I am not talking about that; the person concerned is a criminal offence, but I do not need to maintain it and I do not need to enforce it. I would like to have an answer to that in order to clarify the scope of this legislation. I am still waiting because I feel that Mr Schalk has something to ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u243	If that's allowed, yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u244	It's always only if the president's okay with it. On Mr De Graaf's example: imagine now that the same bus driver sees a group of young people arriving with ski masks or helmets. Wouldn't he be thrilled if he had a little more ground under his feet than the polite, friendly treatment and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u245	I have the impression that it doesn't really matter to the bus driver in the situation you're describing whether there's a law somewhere banning facial clothing. You outline the situation in which a number of young people really want to make themselves amok or even threaten the physical safety of the driver. Then it does not help to say: wait a minute, under article you cannot have that much. Then there's something else going on. But I don't think that's what this law is about either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u246	I fully agree with Mr De Graaf. You can be bathin' about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u247	I'm not doing that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u248	No, that's fine, but you can also say that at that moment a driver has more handles to adapt his behavior to what he sees coming towards him and that he knows that he is legally supported. I would like to get away from just that discussion about burka and nikab and move on to a broader discussion about security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u249	I can imagine that, in terms of safety and security, it is sometimes useful to address passengers. It depends on the person you are talking to, how much courage you have for that and what the circumstances are. But you can do that now, because as a bus driver or train conductor you have a responsibility for the order within your train compartment or in the bus. You can ask passengers to behave according to your lead. This ban does not include such an enormous extra charge. That doesn't mean that if there is a ban, things will be different. But when a bus company says that we are asking our drivers to do so, and that is how they deal with passengers, can they continue to do so in the future, or should something be added suddenly? That was my question to the Minister and he needs a clear answer. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u250	Thank you, Mr De Graaf. I call Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I sat in the debate in the first term listening to the various government parties and former government parties and thought: which of the coalition parties is actually really pleased by this law? It is a bit of a struggle for everyone and a trade-off that, with all due respect for the care, does not lead to great joy. So who are we all doing it for now? I couldn't quite shake that feeling. Thank you, by the way, to the Minister for the answers. As far as my group is concerned, they still lead to a few points. The first is whether this legislation leads to indirect discrimination. I understand the Minister's statement that there is no religious law at stake here. However, indirect discrimination is not about the intended effects, but about the unintended effects that can occur in legislation. In any case, my group fears that the effects of this legislation will be particularly felt by a specific group with a religious background. Perhaps the Minister would like to reflect on that a little more clearly. This also has to do with the following point, namely the effects of the law on behaviour. Does that law promote the emancipation of women precisely because they are now taking up their nikab or burqa and are going to participate more in public life or are they getting back into shell, which we would find extremely regrettable? The minister says she's holding her finger on the wrist. That is a promise that goes a long way in the right direction. I would like to have a somewhat sharper commitment from the Minister on the way in which she is going to keep her finger on the wrist. I ask her to share her findings here in two or maybe three years' time, whether or not she has recommendations on undesirable effects and how we could deal with them further. That commitment should therefore be strengthened as far as my group is concerned. In the course of the debate other spokesmen pointed out that there was a slight shift from security and communication as a basis for legislation towards standardisation and standardisation. Well, that's really different stuff, isn't it? By the way, everything is legitimate to some extent when it comes to what you lay down in the law, but it is different from the original starting point of this law. If this shift towards more standardisation and standards is real, as far as my group is concerned, this is not exactly easy to enforce immediately. If I understood Mr Rombouts correctly, he said that standards might be even more important than enforcement and that we will almost end up in some sort of toleration. Perhaps the Minister would like to reflect on that as well. With us, it's still a concern. The confidence in the professionals we have leads us to the idea that we really do not need this legislation. We believe that the imposition of enforcement there complicates matters for them rather than leads to a solution. That point has not yet been fully removed by the Minister. Finally, let me touch on the example of the public transport companies. What if a bus driver sees someone with a burqa at the bus stop? He or she is obliged to bring someone from the transport obligation of the public transport companies. Is he or she then the one who punishes you? You do not go, because you carry a burqa and you do not drop it off? Then we will not only impose enforcement, but also sanctions, contrary to the obligation to transport, on that bus driver. These are all complicating factors. We don't think we should put our performers in that situation. I look forward to the remaining answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u252	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I call Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, too, I would like to thank the Minister warmly for the answers. After this treatment, we find the law a good law in two terms. It prevents problems in the workplace and brings legal certainty. We also believe that it is the legislator's job to provide legal certainty. Although the law restricts fundamental rights, that is a limited restriction, so to speak. The Minister spoke about the entry into force. I haven't been able to look it up anymore, but is it also in this law that the entry into force of KB takes place at a time to be determined by us? I'm gonna take that as a assumption. It wants to consult with the sectors. That's fine. We only hope that this entry into force will not delay until all sectors have given their full agreement, because we are afraid that the entry into force will be very far away. A third point is that it should have been one more of us on behalf of the VVD that was also expressed in the House of Representatives, especially with regard to the public road, ski masks and helmets. We would very much appreciate it if we could do some research into what is happening in that border area, particularly between this law and the Public Events Act. At the end of the first term, I heard Mr Schalk say some important things about it. I hope he continues on that line. If so, I should like to say that he has the support of our group. Finally, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u254	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the answer, which was clear as far as I am concerned. Perhaps after this debate next week there will be clarity, after a long discussion, about how to proceed with facial clothing. There was a discussion about when this started. I did some searching myself, and I think it was in 2000, when the PvdA first asked Chamber questions whether a woman whose face is almost invisible could participate. The PvdA did pick up the glove in that sense. In this light, the first-term contribution gave rise to some reflection, but that is no longer for this debate. I'd like to talk to the senator about that again. The Minister has just explained that an infringement of fundamental right is freedom of religion and that you should not allow this to depend on house rules. I'm pretty good at that. I share that, perhaps because it is also a question of restricting a fundamental right. Mr. Lintmeijer quite rightly asked: are you happy? No. The restriction of a fundamental right is never necessarily happy, but it is part of the rule of law. Occasionally it collides and then it's looking for what you find a good path and what is the right standard. Mr President, the sun is shining right into my eyes. That's very enlightening, but I hope it's going well in terms of contribution. I have expressed my surprise that a number of facts, in particular as regards the number of women wearing a facial veil, could be known in 2009 and not anymore. I continue to find that remarkable and I mark it, especially since there are a lot of parties here who believe in progress. I do that quite often too, and I would not be able to do that here. So what's the deal? That is why I would like to thank the Minister all the more for making a qualitative commitment to at least improve understanding. I would like to hear from her at what point we will get that insightful and what that qualitative commitment means, so that we will have a moment to really talk about what we intended to do with the legislation and to understand what is going on with growth and with the relationship with society. That is not what this piece of legislation is all about, but it is, of course, a side effect. In this context, I would also like to ask the Minister to answer my question about consultation with the target group concerned. The Minister has done so in the past. How does it see this for the future, precisely because the law is only at a time to be determined? If the Minister evaluates the social impact, I would ask her to see it in a broader context in Europe. After all, we have seen that, where, for example, radicalisation takes place, the impact of legislation is also cross-border. Members of the SGP have rightly pointed out that this bill is more than just the Islamic face-covering. I would like to ask the Minister to make it clear whether the desire to establish a fixed rule in face-cover events lives with mayors yes or no. I can't judge that right now, although I can imagine. That is why I ask the Minister if she can check it out. That must be something to discover at the many moments of consultation. Finally, the scope for action of those most likely to encounter this law, in their office, in the bus or in the train. I share the Minister's confidence in the professionals, but it does require a lot of care, also in terms of implementation. I am glad that the Minister says: I am not going to do it in a very good way, but I am going to do it in consultation so that it can be done in a good and careful way. I would like to thank her for that commitment, but I would ask her to set a deadline for this, otherwise we could be talking for a very long time without having any clarity when the law enters into force. And clarity was precisely one of the arguments of this minister. I shall conclude, Mr President. It has often been about the inconvenience that we feel when people actually shut down from society. We need the other, and also the conversation about our deepest beliefs in order to be a society. This is not a matter entirely of this law, but it is something that says a great deal about our culture, and also about the government's position in it. I would certainly like to encourage the Minister, together with her colleagues, with her colleagues on integration, to continue this discussion, despite any measures that we may be able to agree with here at the moment. If we keep having that conversation, we'll also keep room for those deepest beliefs, even if they annoy us a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u256	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u257	Hey, I'm in the sun here behind the speaker chair. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, this debate has been a little too much about an alleged Islamic way of dressing. I would therefore like to stress once again: we do not think that is what the nikab is about. According to these estimates, 99.9% of Muslim women in the Netherlands do not wear nikab or burka. I do not think the debate should be about burkas at all, because there are even fewer people who enter a hospital with a burka in the Netherlands than there are people who stop their integral helmet when entering the hospital. Of course, that's not what this is all about; it's about wearing the nikab. That was the real reason, as the Minister clearly stated in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u258	And also that letter from various Islamic organizations, which was not only noticed by Mr Van Hattem but also by me, does not indicate that this has been widely worn in the Islamic community in the Netherlands. What is stated in that letter is that a ban is found to be too far-reaching a violation of that freedom of religion. They think so, but that does not mean that all these organizations call for it to be carried, or inclined to do so, or that their interpretation of Islam is that you have to live with a nikab or a burqa. On the contrary, I know from some of those organisations that they absolutely do not think so. However, Mr Van Hattem, it may seem unlikely to you, but it is sometimes the case that fundamental freedoms are defended by people who do not want to make use of them themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u259	Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u260	May I finish this, Mr. Chairman? We are also defending the fundamental freedom of the PVV to say what one wants there, provided that one stays within the law. But that does not mean that I agree with what you are all saying. And yet I keep standing up for that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u261	Yes, freedom of expression is a great asset; I fully share that with Mr Köhler. But it's more about the character of the letter. Apart from the fact that they say it and that they can say it, it's about what's in it. And it does say that it is a joint condemnation of the Law partially prohibiting facial covering clothing. There is even literally above "In the name of Allah, the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful." So it's really a very pronounced Islamic story. And it clearly states that the letter was written by them "as representatives of the Islamic community," and that it is also a "joint concern" they express. Then they talk about wearing face-covering clothing from the Islamic belief. That is what is written here in a text which is also literally 'on behalf of the Islamic community'. And then comes the whole series, from Sheikh Fawaz Jneid, from the As-Soennah mosque and all those mosques that are now hugged with eiftar parties by all those municipalities during Ramadan and so on, where all the mayors sit, where aldermen join...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u262	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem? What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u263	My question is: the SP simply does not want to see the essence of what such a letter means. This letter means that the Islamic organisations jointly issue a statement that wearing facial clothing is part of Islam. I'm not making that up: it's right here in that letter. And Mr Köhler is condoning that here. The SP is condoning what's in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u264	Again, Mr Van Hattem, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u265	Well, I am responding to what Mr Köhler has just said. He made a comment in my direction about the letter, so I wanted to respond to that, to clarify the essence of this letter and how the SP looks away again for Islamization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u266	Yes. Mr President, with what I have just said, before Mr Van Hattem's interruption began, I have actually answered his interruption. All these organisations therefore do not believe that it is an Islamic way of dressing that has been prescribed. They just think it's religious freedom that you should dress like that. And that's why they're against that law. That is not our position, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u267	You can now continue with your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u268	Yes. If those many organizations whose names are under that letter all thought that women could go through life with a burka or nikab, there were a lot more Muslim women in the Netherlands with a burka or nikab. But that is not the case. Mr President, then the Minister's answers. I do not think that her answer on public transport is very satisfactory. How's that gonna go? She says: yes, we are going to make agreements in that sector, so that people know where they stand. Well, first of all, the companies in question say: don't make those arrangements to us, because things are going well now and we'd rather not. But then, how will that go? Of course, it's not like a bus driver makes those rules himself. It's not now. That misunderstanding appeared to exist with Mr Van Hattem, who talked about the fact that a bus driver should be able to refuse someone in "his bus." Well, Mr. Van Hattem, I've been a collective negotiator in the bus sector for years. It is really not the case that in that sector there is a kind of worker self-government where the bus driver determines the rules in his bus, because that is what the company does. And this will also be the case: I predict the Minister that the directive that is coming will be just like the current directive. In other words: drivers, not escalating conflict, simply letting people board and drive on, otherwise the rest of the passengers will suffer. And the latter is the same. Does the Minister also expect that to become the rule? The Minister replied to the questions on health: yes, there are indeed no concrete problems. That is interesting: it seems as if there would be concrete and non-concrete problems. I assume the Minister means that there are no problems at all. But the Minister thinks that a clear standard is better. Why? Why does the Minister want to overrule the doctors, at least the KNMG, and the boards of institutions that she herself has asked for, by making a general rule, which also goes beyond existing practice? Because the existing practice is that these kinds of rules exist at the counter, in the office and sometimes they do and sometimes they don't in the waiting room. But now the Minister wants to impose on all these institutions that no one with a nikab can enter the hospital at all, not even a visitor or a sick visitor. And that while many large hospitals don't even have a doorman at the entrance who can point that out or stop someone. So the question remains: this can be arranged in its own circle, so why does the Minister insist on a difficult arrangement? Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that he had already entered into consultations with the various sectors and wanted to pursue them further. I'd like to know the results of that. In view of the objections that these institutions now have, I would like to know how you get out. Can that law lead to good and workable rules? And perhaps it would be a good thing if this Chamber were to get the results of that consultation before we finally decide whether to introduce the law in this way. I ask the Minister if she is prepared to do so. Let me turn to Mr Rombouts' comments. I think he has made a very balanced speech. This was about the need for the various social institutions to make and apply their own rules and that there is a culture of their own, which is a good use in the Netherlands. I totally agree with him. It's very nice that SP and CDA both want to emphasize that. But on the other hand, he said, for certain reasons, it would be good to set a legal standard in this case. Well, I don't entirely agree with him on the reasons he mentioned, but that aside. He then said: but this clear regulation in the law is a clear standard, but the professionals in the field can deal with it in practice. He's assuming that's wise. Look, Mr President, the Catholic members of my group, to mention another religion in this debate, have recognized this as a true Catholic answer. It is the usual way Catholics in the Netherlands deal with the papal rules. Maybe that's a very workable way, so I don't think it's a bad argument in itself. However, I would like to ask Mr Rombouts whether he does not agree with me in this respect that it would be very good to know the results of that consultation on the working instructions which the Minister is about to carry out before he finally decides to do so. Because, of course, there is a danger that flexible handling of these further working instructions will be made impossible in practice. So I think it would be very useful, with his reasoning, if we first knew the results of that consultation. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response, in particular on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u269	Mr. Köhler, there will be an interruption by Mr. Van Hattem. So if you'd like to go back, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u270	I listened with attention to Mr Köhler's speech in the second term. I still have one question, because I hear Mr Köhler say in his second term that a difficult arrangement is now being passed. Does Mr Köhler now distance himself from what his colleague in the House of Representatives, Mr Van Raak, has said, namely that it is a practical solution to practical problems and a wise proposal? Does Mr Köhler distance himself from the SP spokesperson in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u271	I'm even more nuanced than our spokesperson is used to doing there. As far as concerns are concerned, I am concerned that it is no longer a practical arrangement if you do more than the existing practice, which works well, to translate into a general rule. That's what's at risk, especially in the health care sector. Because the general rule that is now proposed in the law is that everyone, including visitors or people who come to a care facility, should always take away the cover of their faces. That is a much tighter regulation than the existing, workable practice. In this context, we believe that it may lead to overkill and also to obligations on these institutions to apply rules that they do not need at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u272	So I note that Mr Köhler has distanced himself from the words of his colleague in the House of Representatives and does not therefore find it a wise proposal, nor a practical solution. That's what you just said. So there's obviously a discrepancy. I am just saying that I notice that the SP Group seems to have chosen a different direction here. Do I conclude that correctly, Mr. Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u273	Well, you can assume in advance for this debate and for all the forthcoming debates that our group operates without burden and backspoke. So we have, and I hope that this is also the case with you, even though I have some doubts about this, no problem with having to follow the House's group. But as far as the content is concerned, I have made a more nuanced speech than you, but perhaps also Mr Van Raak. It is precisely on this point that we have asked whether the legislation on solving a problem which we agree with the government and Mr Van Raak on is best if it is counterproductive in many sectors. We are happy to give the Minister the opportunity to explain to us that this fear is unfounded. But we would like to go a little further on that. Yes, as I said, it is particularly important for us to test subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u274	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u275	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It may be assumed that the SGP raises objections in the case of advertising or behaviour if there is insufficient clothing. But sometimes we object again when too much clothing is worn. That is the case here. Good thing there's a bill. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. During the debate, I have tried to broaden the point a little bit and to separate it from just the talk about burka and nikab. That's what it was all about. The government does not do that and has opted for a restrictive list of places where the partial ban on facial clothing applies. The Minister argued that this was done on the basis of legitimacy and proportionality versus the Constitution. However, I felt that the emphasis in the answer was often placed on the words "communication" and "uniformity." Only communication would be too soft to find legitimacy and proportionality strong enough to go against the Constitution. But my idea would be that it's really about safety. The Minister has deliberately opted for no general ban. That is why I think it is good to see whether there is no need for more than the exhaustive list that is now available, precisely from the point of view of security. That's why I've gone into it a few times. I think it is important that demonstrations and demonstrations should include a general ban on facial clothing, so that it is crystal clear to every municipality and to the police how to act. I know that's the side of the bill. I have already indicated that my group will vote in favour of the law as it stands. But the point has been raised and it is also important. Hence a motion on this point, which I would like to table. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Schouwenaar, Mr Klip-Martin and Mr Rombouts proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the crucial importance of security and transparency, particularly in the event of demonstrations and demonstrations;]] [[noting that facial-covering clothing is regularly detected in situations resulting in public violence or riots;]] [[Whereas, in order to avoid this, municipalities are now required to draw up or issue special regulations where appropriate;]] [[Whereas a general ban on demonstrations and demonstrations provides absolute clarity for police action;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the desirability of banning facial clothing, such as masks, balaclavas, integral helmets and the like, in general in the event of manifestations and demonstrations, unless there is a specific reason to allow it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u277	I would like to receive an explanation from Mr Schalk on this motion. Does he believe that the mayors in our country with the powers that are available to them both under the Public Events Act and on the basis of the possibility to issue regulations or emergency orders do not have sufficient material and instruments to exercise their own responsibilities and to make their own decisions? And do you think that this should be national legislation because perhaps the mayors could not be fully trusted in it? Why can't we just rely on our local government and those who are competent about it? Why must this necessarily be national legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u278	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that it is absolutely not about whether or not to have faith in mayors, the triangle or whatever. That is absolutely not what I am talking about. The reason for my proposal in this motion is that, just when demonstrations and such mischief occur, you often see people wearing facial clothing. If that happens suddenly and if no regulation has been issued, the police are not very easily empowered to act. If a municipal authority or a mayor in all cases at every demonstration requested says that face-covering clothing should not be allowed, this problem would not be raised, but I have already argued during the debate that I recently heard about a situation in which this was not to be expected. Then there was trouble and the police intervened, but the people who demonstrated knew exactly what was or was not ordered. When they didn't listen, the whole demonstration was cancelled. That's just an incident; I know that, but this indicates that this is happening. So it's not my concern that the mayor shouldn't have that authority. The mayor will undoubtedly be able to do many other things. The idea behind this is not: it has to be and it will be. But check this out and ask. Maybe those mayors say it would be great for them to know by default that those ski masks are just not allowed during a demonstration. This would also help the police, which unfortunately is very often used in this sort of thing, because then the police will know what they are doing and then they will be able to intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u279	I doubt whether it would be very useful, on the basis of an incident you once heard, to immediately ask for legislation. This leads very quickly to Einzellgesetzgebung. If you don't know exactly what the scale of this problem is, you have once heard about an incident, before we ask for legislation, is it not much wiser to ask the Minister first if there is a problem at all? Isn't that much wiser? I think your motion didn't call for an investigation, but for legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u280	Of course, you have not yet seen the motion; you have just heard the motion. What you're proposing is exactly what I'm asking. I am not asking for a law, but for an examination of the desirability of banning facial clothing in general, such as masks, ski masks, integral helmets and the like, at manifestations. It is therefore a question of examining the desirability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u281	Actually, that's not what I asked. I asked that we first identify the problem before we come to the question of whether the desirability should be examined. Is there even a problem? That would be the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u282	The Minister of the Interior undoubtedly has all kinds of lines with the Society of Mayors and the like. My plea would be to raise that problem there. Then we will find out whether the desirability is there or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u283	I do not think Mr Schalk is from the south, but it says not only 'demonstrations' but also 'events'. Does this mean you want to abolish the carnival?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u284	That is a very personal question, but a carnival parade is excluded by this law. Carnival is not a manifestation. This is covered by the terms well defined in the law and in the explanatory statement: these are festivities that belong to religious gatherings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u285	Of course, but we're not talking about the law. We're talking about your motion. It's not about the law at all. With the motion you are asking for a kind of extension of a ban on facial clothing, as Mr De Graaf has just indicated. The motion states "demonstrations and demonstrations." "Manifestations" is a very broad concept. Does this mean that in all cases manifestations and demonstrations... Well, I'm asking for an explanation of the terms in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u286	I get it. Perhaps for the sake of clarity: demonstrations can also be very peaceful and can be for charities and the like. This can of course also be the case in the event of events. In the motion it was added: 'unless there is a specific reason to allow it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u287	I saw the motion. I wonder whether we should now re-examine the desirability. Who should determine this desirability? What are the frameworks for asking for this desirability? That is very vaguely worded. It seems to me that you yourself indicate that an investigation is taking place and that you then order each motion in the operative part. I can't really go very far with what exactly is the intention of "wishfulness." Could you clarify that, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u288	Yes. I have just given the suggestion which was also confirmed by Mr De Graaf, perhaps in a different way than he had thought, to ask the mayors, for example, but I assume that the Minister of the Interior, who is concerned with this, has a number of channels through which she has contact with the authorities and the persons involved. The only thing this motion asks for is to examine the desirability. I ask the Minister, through this motion, to investigate that and to come forward with a response. Then we will find out whether this is desirable or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u289	It remains unclear what you're saying. Desirably from what frame? For whom should it be desirable? 'Cause you said, "for example, with mayors." Then you can start questioning every possible organization and then another answer comes out that you can't go anywhere with. So I really wonder what this motion is going to contribute to if it is tabled with this operative part, because I can hardly imagine what would have to come out of such an investigation into desirability. Desirability is, after all, something that is more politically determined in this context than that it is generally examined or asked out, because there are always pros and cons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u290	I can imagine that mayors and therefore municipalities always have to do with the desirability of this section, when we focus on demonstrations and demonstrations. The line via the Minister of the Interior to municipalities and to mayors is crystal clear. Of course, you do not have to investigate this with all kinds of organisations that have nothing to say about whether or not a demonstration should go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u291	Mr. Van Hattem, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u292	Then I conclude that your motion focuses solely and specifically on the municipal authorities, in order to examine the desirability there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u293	That sounds like a good summary, but maybe I'm missing things. If the Minister of the Interior knows any other gremia that she would like to ask, I welcome it. Madam President, I had come to the end of my speech. I believe that I have already said that my group will endorse the legislative proposal as it stands next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u294	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u295	Madam President. What a pity that the facial sun has disappeared by now. I always like that. Others prefer not to shine in their eyes. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive, thorough answer, in particular for her explanation of self-regulation and enforcement. I understand that she has not, and I am sure she is aware of that, gone on the slippery ice of my symbolic order, and I would like to respect that. There are two colleagues who have challenged me to skate on it a little longer. I would like to say to Mr Lintmeijer that your brief summary of the end of my speech was somewhat like the conciseness of a headline. I prefer to choose my own words, and they were in question form: is this law not, in this way, a standard that must be maintained with common sense and a good heart? And I wanted to leave it at that, too. Mr Köhler said: should we not wait first for the Minister's instructions in his reasoning? No, we're not waiting for that. In the first period, I said quite consciously that I did not want to hide in order to make it clear that in the balance of interests we ultimately tend to vote in favour. I am curious whether the SP, which has now heard the Minister's comprehensive reply, is now in a position to express a propensity, because I can see that the SP has also seen good elements in this bill. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the Schalk motion, which I have already signed up for. In my long-term practice, I have issued an emergency regulation or an emergency order dozens of times. That number alone says something about how many times that is needed in one town with paid football, apart from all the other demonstrations and demonstrations that are being held. With Mr Schalk, I think it is desirable that we ask the government to examine whether it is appropriate, in addition to the legislation that exists, to regulate this uniform, so that it is established in advance that the wearing of ski masks and similar hats is prohibited. You're gonna have to cut me off if I go over the clock. I wanted to tell you that during the riots in the Graafsewijk of Den Bosch I experienced that in the trunk of a car the second night of the riots were sold for €25 ski masks, so that the youngsters could go on throwing stones, because they wouldn't be recognized anyway. In that context, I would like to have signed the Schalk motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u296	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u297	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for her very clear and efficient response, setting out clearly the purpose and scope of this legislative proposal. I had not actually asked the Minister any questions at first, so I can hardly claim that she still has questions to answer from me. I do have two points from the discussion that I think it makes sense to come back to. Enforcement has been a point in the discussion. The conclusion is that it ultimately depends on what is decided in an organisation how to deal with it and then how staff working in that organisation decides to deal with it for themselves. That means, but I had already noted that it has not been said that it will always be maintained; probably not. The question is, how bad is that? I don't think that's a bad thing, even though I'm not a Catholic, and I'm not the only one who comes to this conclusion anyway. I wouldn't mind. However, it is important that there should be a set of standards that can be backed up. That seems to me to be the point of this law. And the next point. The Minister specifically stated that the law is religiously neutral. Of course he is, in the sense that he is not meant to oppose a specific religion. But it is obvious, of course, that a group that is expressly affected by this law is a particular sect of Islam. This means that there is a restriction on fundamental rights, and that is a serious matter, because any conviction is legitimate in this country, and that can also be discussed and even preached, not a problem. However, society makes certain demands for smooth operation, and they are indeed in the sphere of communication and security. These requirements are normally enforced by a social convention, but in an extreme case by legislation. That is what is happening here, and in the case of legislation, everyone must, in principle, submit to it, I say explicitly, regardless of the reason someone has to change their mind. In this way, the border, but also the usefulness of this legislation, has been indicated as far as I am concerned. So, Mr President, even in this second term, as far as I am concerned, not so much ask the Minister, but some of his own considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u298	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I ask the Minister if she has the opportunity to reply directly. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u299	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions in the order in which they were asked in my second term. I will also come back to a number of points from the first term. Moreover, I have noted that the spokesmen have done the same. Mr Van Hattem wanted to have a more precise indication of the date of entry into force. I find that hard to say. I really want to have the consultation with the parties. I expect to need a minimum introduction period of six months. I can assure you that I will inform the Chamber. Then Article 435a and the political pursuit. I really cannot agree with Mr Van Hattem on that point. I see women wearing face-covering clothing as an expression of a religion as far as I can agree with him, but that is of course not at all the same as expressing a political ambition in general. If, in a specific case, this is perhaps the case, which I do not rule out in itself, then the criminal court will be able to examine it in that particular case, but I do not support the general principle as expressed by Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u301	You say that it is a religious endeavour, but Islam is an ideological endeavour, in which there is always a political component to set a society fully up with Islamic reading. That's what you also see in what happened to the Taliban in Afghanistan, where all those women were forced to wear a burqa from a political point of view. So if a burqa is worn from that point of view to enforce a political aspect, it seems to me that this legal provision can indeed be applied. It is more a question of whether there is a willingness to apply that article of the law. It seems to me that it can simply be used for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u302	To start with that last one. The willingness to apply the law is not up to me. It's up to the judge. The law article exists. As far as the first part of your speech is concerned, that is exactly what we differ on, because from the mere fact that someone is carrying a burka or a nikab, I cannot distract, and no one can in fact deduce, that this is intended to express a political ambition. I can tell from it that these people are religious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u303	We must note that in a country such as Afghanistan, the Taliban was indeed a politically institutionalized organisation, and that IS, Islamic State, the name says it already had a political ambition, in which face-covering clothing was really used as a recognizable element of clothing and imposed on women. If that is used in a society to achieve that goal, it seems to me that the lawkeepers in this country are responsible for this and not the judge acting on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u304	Mr Van Hattem has a different world view than I do, but we already knew that. I think it's important to look at the starting point anyway. My starting point is that there's a bill here that looks like face-covering clothing. This can be about burkas and nikabs, which in the Netherlands are to a very limited extent worn by Muslim women. That's the reasoning I'm holding here. So the reasoning of the Taliban and what might be happening in other countries and imposed on women has nothing to do with that. It's really two different things. The article only looks at expressing the political aim and I cannot draw that conclusion on the basis of the single fact of wearing face-covering clothing. I also note that Mr Van Hattem and I have a difference of opinion about the letter from the Islamic organisations. I continue to believe that they have every right to express their views in the process of drafting this bill. Mrs Nooren has asked whether the legislative proposal is necessary and what message we are sending with it. Perhaps it would be a good idea to repeat what I said about necessity and legitimacy. I believe that we share the principle that individual freedom is essential in our society, that the freedom of one should not lead to a restriction on the rights and freedoms of others and that a restriction, in this case a restriction on everyone's right to carry what one wants, should serve a legitimate purpose and be proportionate. So I think we can all agree on that. The legislative proposal has therefore also been carefully considered. On the one hand, the social importance of communicating and recognizing citizens among themselves and their impact on public services and behaviour, including in the context of security. On the other hand, it is about individual freedom. The conclusion is therefore that there is a legislative proposal which envisages the introduction of a partial legal ban on wearing face-covering clothing and thus legitimizes it. No more and no less. So there is a need to reach a ban, but the ban is limited. The reason for this is the importance attached to communication for services and security. These concepts are also related to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u305	In the legal process so far, the government has always taken the view that it cannot achieve the quality of services and safety without a legal ban. That is at the heart of the bill and not the uniformity. It says literally, whatever the normal way of thinking in the context of proportionality and that sort of thing, that the legislator comes forward when house rules are inadequate. That is the necessity. The minister seems to be going down that road. She says: it is not about whether the quality of service and safety is not guaranteed, I want it to be uniform. That's a very different kind of approach. If you want it to be uniform, you have to do other things than when you say: without a legal ban, you cannot guarantee the quality of service and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u306	I see no difference in my reasoning compared to the reasoning contained in the documents of my predecessor. I believe that all the concepts mentioned here have always been part of the discussion. In any case, in the light of the years of discussion on this issue and also in order to bring it to a certain conclusion with this legislative proposal, it is important that we state that the need has been sufficiently demonstrated. I believe that this has also been done by limiting the scope of the legislative proposal. The argument is that, in view of the importance of good communication, it is precisely in the places where people interact with each other and people are dealing with aid workers and other professionals, that a legal standard and a legal uniform regulation benefit. So I see those two things as being related and not as two separate, distinct considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u307	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u308	In my view, we have a different line of thinking about the need for legislation versus other ways of doing it, where we come to the conclusion that if the field itself regulates it, the legislator must be cautious. I would remind you of last week's debate on fireworks, in which you make a different kind of assessment. Where there are literally deaths if you do not intervene, the cabinet says at that time: yes, but people can still contact each other if firecrackers and fireworks are fired and the police have to do their job. Then I find it strange that the same cabinet, on such an essential matter, where it also deals with fundamental rights and beliefs, makes a different kind of consideration in terms of the quality of service and uniformity. So I'm looking, let me tell you where the ground is underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u309	Let me not repeat what I just argued. I think a careful consideration has been made. I just outlined it. We may then continue to differ on that point. Once again, I would point out that a very long discussion can be resolved in this way. So that is not with an overall ban, but we are not leaving it as it is. Evident is also that if we leave it as it is, we will continue to have that discussion. In practice, of course, it will also have to show how this works. I shall come back to that later when I answer Mrs Bikker's questions. Nevertheless, the signal that if this law is passed here, we are sending out with it is that we think that a limited ban on a specific number of places contributes to clarity and is also practicable in practice. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to come back to a question that Mrs Nooren once again asked in the second term. Is it now sufficiently clear to the healthcare institutions where this ban is and is not in force? I have just said that there is an exception in the legislative proposal for residential parts of health care institutions. So it's about your own room. It's about people's rooms, about people's living quarters in a care facility. The stay there is a stay that should be considered as staying in a private domain. As an example, I could mention Thomas House, which Mrs Nooren herself cited. That is exactly one of those parts of a health care institution which is residential and for which there is an exception. The proposal also includes a power to allow facial covering in non-residential parts of the institution. Of course, it is important to consider common areas where clients or patients stay a lot, which can also be seen, but the care institution must decide for itself as an extension of their private domain. I'll call it a living room or a kitchen. That space is available to the institutions themselves to make an agreement on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u310	A brief interruption, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u311	The minister calls it Thomas House, but I have a question about the pgb. So far, I have assumed that it applied to institutions. Previously, the Minister linked it to concrete physical admission to an institution, but now she is actually extending it to all forms of care, including those with a personal budget, such as the care provided in a Thomas House. After all, these are other forms of concern. I ask the Minister to proceed with the field and to clarify its scope. Does it depend on the funding or the physical location and how does the Minister make a difference? Maybe she can promise to clarify this in consultation with the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u312	I was gonna promise you that anyway. You would have asked for that in your term. But I am saying here now, and that is also important for the Acts of Accession, that it must be about a care institution where people reside as if it were their private domain, because that is their private situation. But the promise that the field will be properly discussed, so that it is clear to them, I am happy to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then the professionals. Mrs Nooren asked: is it true that professionals themselves can sidestep the law? The prohibition applies in the situations and places described in the law. But the point is, of course, that the healthcare provider in the example given is not the one who is in violation. Whoever wears and continues to wear facial clothing, that is he who transgresses. Of course, a health care provider or a health care provider can always choose to provide the care, even if the patient is in violation at this point. In my opinion, therefore, the necessity weighting makes the caregiver simply himself, and the aid is always the case. So, of course, whether action is then taken, whether the police are involved, etc., is a consideration that needs to be made on the spot. So that was the underlying idea of my first-term explanation. Differences have been asked about enforcement and enforcement, but I should first like to address Mrs Nooren's question. During the dinner break, I checked whether the answer I gave earlier differs from the response. That is not the case. The written documents also state that the government trusts that the institutions concerned themselves will find a solution. We expect that only after the institution itself has referred to the rule and has therefore asked for the facial cover to be removed, and that then it has not happened, the institution, just as I described it earlier, will, according to the escalation model, call on the police to do so. That is what I have just said, and that is, as far as I can see, also what is in all the documents on this subject. I'm here to talk about the effect. I will say something about this later on in the direction of Mrs Bikker, but Mrs Nooren also asked for it. Yeah, that's right, I made that commitment. We'll keep an eye on the effect. How exactly are we going to do that? I just said: at least by staying in consultation with the institutions. If there are other and better ways to do so, we will, of course, be happy to take over. I have just heard a suggestion from Mrs Nooren on that point. We need to take a look at the way. It will indeed often be qualitative. It may also be aimed at a very specific number of institutions. But at least the promise stands. Then Mr. De Graaf. "Still confused but at a higher level." Well, at least that's what I've achieved, and that's good. He came back to subsidiarity. Subsidiarity means that the government believes that there is no less far-reaching means of achieving the same goal. That is why this limitation has been chosen, for those situations where a less far-reaching option is not possible. A partial ban, but then uniform, standardising and equal for all, with legal certainty served. Proportionality and subsidiarity are always very much intertwined. Same in this case. But I believe that the basis for this is clear and sufficient. He also asked about the limitation to the sectors. We have also discussed this in the first place. He mentioned the example of public transport. Mr Lintmeijer had a similar question, which was also about a bus driver. This is the same as for the care. The bus driver is not in violation in case someone is present on the bus with face-covering clothing. He or she is not trespassing. No, whoever wears it is trespassing. This means that public transport companies could give instructions on how a driver should deal with this. This could, for example, be: do not engage in discussion with the passenger or passengers if this entails a risk of escalation, but contact the police. That kind of very practical instructions and manuals is what I imagine will now be worked out by the sector in order to prevent such incidents. Again, it doesn't happen often, but it can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u313	I assume that the Minister has also answered my questions on this point. I'd like to have it a little more specific. Could it not also be that the instruction is not "don't escalate but contact the police" but that the instruction is "don't escalate; so don't contact the police, but just let it happen because nobody is affected"? That is the current instruction for such cases. If that becomes the new instruction, then the Minister will be at peace with it, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u314	The difference between the situation now and that in the future is that there is a law that sees a ban on public transport, including in the bus that Mr Köhler is talking about. If the instruction is now 'be generous and respectful', then I do not think it will change, but that there will be an action perspective, namely that the police may indeed be asked, where appropriate, to resolve such a matter. That is a possibility that does not exist now and will, but no one has any interest in escalating it. I think everyone has an interest in a bus driver just knowing what he's up to. Mr Lintmeijer referred to indirect discrimination. We talked about that in the first term. There is indirect discrimination if the application of criteria which are neutral in themselves de facto results in a discriminatory outcome. In itself, Mr Lintmeijer is right that this could happen in this case. The most important question is then: have we considered whether there really is an objective justification for the situation that may arise indirectly? I have just indicated that I think that this has been carefully considered. The choice of the importance of communication as a basis for quality services to ensure a safe environment is the objective justification of the legislative proposal before us. The aim is, of course, not discrimination. It may be that the indirect effect is that some will experience it, but the objective justification lies in the justification, in communication and in security. Mr Lintmeijer also had a question about a bus driver, but I have already answered it. The emancipation side of this. I understand that Mr Lintmeijer is making this point. It's a relevant point. I said in the first term that we cannot see the effects of this at the moment. As such, it is not the purpose of the proposal, but the wearers of facial clothing will deal with it, that is something we have to wait for. Both situations could arise. People might choose to wear them less or not to wear them in certain places, but it may also be that people do. The point is understandable, but that is not what the bill says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u315	I had asked the Minister whether she could actually shape that finger on the wrist and whether we could get a report on how this worked out over a reasonable period of time, two to three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u316	That is right, and that seems to me to be a reasonable wish. As I said, I still have to think about this and agree on how we can monitor it in practice, but it seems reasonable to me to agree that we should come back to it at two or three years. That could also be the commitment I have already made to Mrs Bikker. I'm at the VVD by now. Mr Schouwenaar's main point concerned the border area with the Public Events Act. I will get to that in a moment, because I still have a motion from the SGP on that point. I reiterated the commitment to Mrs Bikker. Perhaps it is good to say in her direction that it is difficult to get very precise figures out of the studies so far. So I don't know. We do not know whether the number of women has increased or not. Research in this area is extremely difficult. It's kind of the way it is. The drafting of the current legislative proposal is therefore all the more important. This will be done by consulting the parties concerned. I will also have to discuss with other colleagues how we are going to do that. I have just indicated that we should be able to give an idea of this at least two or three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u317	I welcome that commitment, but what can I expect about these two or three years? What does the Minister have in mind about what we'll get back? It's very vague now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u318	Two things. First of all, can the institutions and the sectors concerned get away with it? Two, a very important one, as I said in the first term: does it not have certain behavioural effects, such as avoiding care or people who visit certain places, including the judge? It seems very important to me to try to get that picture. I also found it interesting that Mrs Bikker said: could we not involve the wider European context? We are also, of course, looking at what has happened in other countries. We are now joining in a series of countries where two more have recently been added. It seems to me very good to keep an eye on whether it is developing with us, even if we have something different from what we have in the other countries, or in a similar way than there. I'd like to take that suggestion with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u319	Thank you for that clear commitment. I understand that in two to three years' time it will also take with it developments in the other countries. I think that's advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u320	That's right. Mrs Bikker also asked whether I would like to enter into consultation with wearers of face-covering clothing. My predecessor did so when preparing the bill. That was about the concerns that live with that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u321	Mrs. Bikker, you want to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u322	Excuse me, Mr President, but the Minister has just understood my question a little more specifically than I meant. I was referring to the breadth of the community. I received earlier signals that this ban has been received in varying degrees in the Muslim community. I think it would be appropriate for the Minister himself to consult not only with the carriers, but also with the slightly wider community that may feel affected by this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u323	If Mrs Bikker thinks it is important that we communicate well about this bill and communicate about what the bill does not see, then I understand Mrs Bikker better. I'll tell her I'll do the communication carefully. Indeed, I understood her question a little more specifically. I will then be with Mr Köhler. I have already said something about it, but he asked whether there would still be consultation with the sectors, given the objections that might exist there. He made the suggestion to do so first and then to introduce the law. I've just outlined it. I shall wait for the vote to take place. There will then be consultations with the different sectors on implementation. This paves the way for the actual introduction of the legislative proposal. I am confident that this will be done in a good and careful way in cooperation with the sectors. Mr Schalk asked for the school building in the first term. I checked that for a while, but I'm sticking to my first-term answer. It is about the building and its management, even if there is alternative use of the school building. Finally, on the basis of Mr Schalk's motion, but also on the basis of questions put by at least Mrs Bikker and Mr Schouwenaar. The Public Attendance Act has so who so so all my attention. I am talking to the Dutch Society of Mayors and the VNG, actually in another context, about the application of the Public Events Act. I conducted those talks at the request of the House of Representatives, as to whether it is true that mayors often resort to the ban on a demonstration, for public order reasons. That was the reason for the conversations. Those talks did not reveal that wearing face-covering clothing or the possibilities offered by the Public Events Act are a problem for them. It doesn't seem to be alive, I say on the basis of the conversations I've had. But, strictly speaking, they took place in a different context. I am happy to return to this in the context of the talks I have with NGB and VNG. However, I have promised the House of Representatives to move in their direction as soon as possible with a result. That brings me to Mr Schalk's motion, with letter G. I understand that motion, but I could suggest to Mr Schalk that we hold the motion pending the letter I am sending to the House of Representatives, but of course I can also send it to the House of First Instance. Then he may be able to assess on that basis whether he still considers it necessary to examine that desirability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u324	I've got a week to think about whether or not I'm going to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u325	That's right. Mr President, that would have brought me to the end of the second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-12-eerstekamer-4.u326	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I see that this is the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the legislative proposal and possibly also on the motion, depending on what Mr Schalk decides.
