ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Wmcz, on new provisions relating to the participation of clients in health care institutions, the law on participation of clients in health care institutions 2018, no. 34858. We are having the debate with the Minister for Medical Care, whom I warmly welcome, as well as the people in the room and the people who are following this debate at home or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today I start with a quote: "Health policy is about more than just money. During my career in medicine, I have seen the growing interest and appreciation of the patient's position and role in health care. When I was trained as a doctor at the end of the 1950s, only two things were expected of patients, namely obedience and gratitude, and they had to remain silent. That is, of course, a totally wrong approach. After all, it is about the patient in health care. If there were no patients and clients, the system was not necessary." On 7 September 1996, Mrs Borst spoke these words at the treatment in the Lower House of the Law on co-determination of clients in health care institutions. This law was the first of many important and decisive laws that Mrs Borst would get through the House of Representatives. But, Mr President, however open-minded and progressive Mrs Borst was before her time, the first law she passed through this house is now in need of renewal. For the old Wmcz spoke of the law itself as a minimum regulation. This is also apparent from the explanatory memorandum of the present legislative proposal. From research reports, but above all from signals from stakeholders and interest groups, we point out that the influence of client councils is inadequate. For example, the lack of financial resources and specific and independent expertise hinders good participation. We therefore welcome the reinforced law, but we still have some questions and proposals for improvement. Mr. Chairman. Care should focus on the patient and the client. That is what I have heard in the debates almost all the parties say, but if we want the client to be at the centre, strong participation is indispensable, because good care means high-quality care. But perhaps more importantly, it also means customer-oriented care. A client has the right to talk about how, for example, an institution provides care. A client benefits from that, but an institution itself, of course. Studies have shown time and time again that institutions with strong and well-equipped participation perform better. Customer satisfaction is higher and acceptance is increasing, even for the sometimes difficult decisions the board has to take. A client council functions as a countervailing partner of an institution, but we must, of course, give them the opportunity to fulfil their role as best as possible. Given all these advantages of strong participation and the clear observation that the old Wmcz was a minimum law, I should like to ask the Minister why it took so long to come up with a new law. Times have changed, the client is central and participation is an important subject. Mr. Chairman. Then about the scope of the law. D66 welcomes the broadening of the law on care institutions. Whether public or private, this does not affect the desirability of a client council. In addition, this law also applies to institutions providing transport facilities, medicines and aids. There is, however, the possibility, as I understand it, of excluding it through a general measure of governance. My question to the Minister is: if there is a change, will we see it as a Chamber? On what basis is the Minister going to consider excluding certain forms and categories? And does the Minister share the view that it is not at all surprising that there is also a client council for, for example, target transport, also in view of the often heard complaints? This broadening is accompanied by an increase in the threshold for client councils, with at least ten natural persons employed by the institution. That border, as the Minister states, has been somewhat arbitraryly chosen. Can the Minister explain to me why this has now been chosen, and how does the Minister look at the ten-person border in view of the first line? Mr. Chairman. I also have to say: however important the client council and participation are to my party, we must be careful not to create a very large, wide system with more bureaucracy. We already expect so many institutions. For example, does the current standard not also mean that there should be different client councils, multiple client councils, in one hospital through different sizes? I don't think that's very desirable. Mr. Chairman. Even more about the multiple client councils and setting them up: I am glad that there will also be an obligation for large institutions to set up multiple client councils. But I do wonder why this obligation has been chosen only at the request of the clients. In addition, it now seems as if all other client councils, when a new client council is added, have to give permission to do so. That really seems too bureaucratic. Can the Minister explain this? Mr. Chairman. I welcome the legal anchoring of direct participation for clients. This gives direct influence to all clients who are staying for a long time; for example, with regard to food, the room, the decor and the daily business. I am therefore convinced that this direct participation will also lead to new forms of participation. My question to the Minister is therefore: how can we promote this, how can we spread good examples? And does he think that leaving this article free of form will benefit participation? Isn't he afraid, for example, that very little will happen to it? Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the law provides for the institution to inform clients of what has happened to their direct participation. I believe that the other way around is of course also important: that the Client Council also informs clients about what happened to their input and thus feedback. I have tabled an amendment along with the VVD on this, precisely in order to promote and strengthen contact with the clients' council. The iBMG study does not call this a "condition for good participation" for nothing. As far as consent is concerned, D66 welcomes the replacement of the weighted advisory right with the right of assent when it comes to essential issues. For example, the opinion of the Client Council on, for example, a renovation or the procedure surrounding the care plans can no longer be lightly ignored by the institution. Only if the client council is unreasonable or the institution goes bankrupt can an institution decide otherwise after approval by the committee of trusted persons. The right of consent is therefore a great asset, as is the independent support of the Client Council, but a Client Council currently has no right of consent to the choice of support. We think that is a strange construction, because it is so important. That is why we are going to table an amendment on this subject together with the Christian Union. Rather, we read in the note that it is not always easy for the institution to find suitable people for this function. Questioning shows that this is not actually the case, but that this depends on the effort made by the institution to seek out good people and good independent supporters. Once again, that is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	There is a question for you from Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	That question is about the right of consent. Mrs Bergkamp says that this is now becoming a lot stronger, especially when it comes to very crucial issues. If I read the law correctly, the Client Council will be given a say and control over the regulations and the Client Council will be given a right of advice on mergers, conversions, relocations, etc., but these crucial decisions are not covered by Article 8, which concerns the right of consent. If we wanted the Client Council to have a decisive vote on mergers in the end, shouldn't those articles really be placed there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	What I believe has happened is that the increased advisory rights that client councils first had have changed into consent rights, giving them an important voice on essential, important issues. I really think that's an improvement. You're talking about Article 8 of the law. I believe that there are opportunities for governance and participation to speak more about this at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Those are different things. Does the Client Council ultimately have a decisive voice in mergers, relocations and renovations? If I read the law correctly, then the Minister must state that there is no decisive vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	There is a decisive vote on the procedure in which the subject is to be discussed and there is an advisory right for such crucial decisions. The SP believes that you need to go a step further in this respect, and look at the scaling up that we have seen and look at failing boards that we have seen, and that, of course, the Client Council should agree to these kinds of decisions that affect the care of the clients. I find it difficult for Mrs Bergkamp to suggest that this is made possible in the law, whereas I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	I welcome the SP's question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify this a little bit. For us, it is important that participation through the client councils should be able to say something about all the processes and procedures in them. When deciding, for example, on a merger, we consider it quite important that a client council should not sit on the driver's seat. It is participation; we think it is important that we draw a line in this too. A client council has a clear voice on very important decisions on day-to-day practice as a result of the change in the right of consultation in the right of consent. Mergers are an incredibly complicated subject. You have to be careful not to decide as a client council on very complicated issues, such as a merger. It's often voluntary. You often have a partner or family member in the institution. You put it all in there. So that's where we draw a line. If I have not fully explained that in my story, I hope that this explanation is clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Here, the monkey will come out of the sleeve. D66, the party of democratic renewal, says that clients are not able to make a good judgment about a merger, a conversion, a move. I find that quite shocking. We are talking about democratisation of care: how can we give clients and patients more control over the important decisions that do not affect their care and their situation, or those of the driver or their lives? It seems to me that you should give extra rights and give consent. It affects their lives, not that of the passerby who often is the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think it is important that the position of the client council should be strengthened by a number of tightenings, which may be necessary. It's necessary. That's why we like the bill. A number of important steps have been taken, but we are drawing a line: where is the responsibility of the driver and where is the responsibility of the client council? I think we should be realistic about that. There is a difference between being a driver and being a client council, but we do think it is important that a client council be involved very well and early in the day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs Ellemeet also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have a question in addition to Mr Hijink's question. We have, of course, seen a lot of mergers in the health care landscape in recent years. Some of them even the authorities say that they should not have taken place and that they regret it. Research has shown that drivers have different motives. Do I hear D66 say that the directors, better than the clients, whose interests it is, are able to decide on mergers, whereas we can now see that some of them should not have taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	If mergers have failed, I find it difficult to say afterwards: "Wouldn't it have been better to...?" On the one hand, you have the law anyway. What we really want and what is much more important is that a culture is created in which you bring people into contact, in which you consult and in which you involve a client council and, by the way, a works council early in all kinds of processes. I will look into this later in my text. When I look at the proposal now before me, I see an extension in the area of the right of assent. This is the subject of Article 7.1 and Article 8 concerns the advisory right. I think that's important, big steps. But again, I'll draw a line. You're a driver. Let us not forget that, as a director, you must also be accountable to the inspection and to all kinds of other supervisory bodies, including the Empire and to participation. We must also, of course, be careful that a driver is not just responsible. However, I would argue that a culture in which a client council is involved early in all kinds of major steps and topics should be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	The choices now made by the legislative amendment suggest that the directors are better able to decide on mergers, while in practice we see that those mergers do not lead to the desired result. So why put that trust again with the directors and not with the clients, who, from their own interests, could make a valuable contribution from their own experiences and from their own expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm repeating myself a little bit. I think this is an important responsibility of the driver. There is also a supervisory board. Let's not forget that. He must also be closely involved. In my contribution, I would also like to pay attention to the importance I attach to this. I am going to table an amendment that a client council has periodic consultations with a supervisory board and that the supervisory board will reconnect what it thinks of the input of the client council. Then, of course, all kinds of topics can be brought in. I think it's important to keep it clean. We have a board of directors, we have a board of directors, and we have a board of clients that has an extension in the field of consent rights and which can also advise on many important issues. This is how we try to make it all workable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	I talked about the plans. In addition, I said that if a client council is totally unreasonable, or an institution goes bankrupt by doing nothing, an institution can always decide otherwise after approval of the trust committee. So there is also a guarantee in the system. The right of consent is therefore a great asset, as is the independent support of the client council. I have just indicated that I, along with Mrs Dik-Faber, am tabling an amendment to ensure that there is a right of assent when it comes to supporting that client council. Nevertheless, a question about the basis of the institution. I do not want to repeat that discussion, but I do have one more question. The Client Council has advisory rights when it comes to changing the basis. I think that's special. Suppose a nursing home suddenly becomes a ggz institution; does a client council only have advisory rights? I would find that strange, because then you change the nature of the institution so that I think... Maybe that'll help me deal with the two people who just interrupted me. Let's talk about the IGJ, the Health and Youth Inspectorate. This makes supervision more accessible. The IGJ may also establish links with regard to the quality of the care institution. We welcome the interplay between the supervisory body, the supervisory board, which is often that, the client council and participation. And we think it is important, because the Supervisory Board is responsible for the quality of its own actions. He does this transparently and with input from others. Unfortunately, in practice it often does not happen that a supervisory board consults with a client council. I find that very strange; if you're on a supervisory board, it makes sense for you to talk periodically to a client council. That often doesn't happen. Hence the amendment that I indicated, where we expect the Supervisory Board to reconnect as well. That can also be about merger, if there are concerns from the client council. But that's how you keep the system clean. For good advice, advice should be requested in good time. The information in the Client Council must also be formulated intelligible. For the words "timely" and "understandable," several interpretations seem possible. I ask the Minister how he looks at this, because that 'timely' and 'understandable' is very important. So not that you get such a huge package of paper a few days in advance and have to give advice or agree on very important issues. The formal advice or request of consent is governed by the law. We would very much like to see such a client council involved early. If an institution sits down with the client council to discuss possible decisions before the official consultative or consent moments, then you will also create more support for decisions and you can also take the input from the practice. That's, I think, very good. Call it "co-creation" or "co-production" or "informal cooperation." It is important to get together early, as the Economic and Social Council says. How will the Minister encourage this? I'm considering a motion on this point. Finally, Mr President. I actually want to end with my main point. As has been said, my group welcomes this law. We still see a number of points, have a number of questions and make a number of proposals for improvement. But there is a difference between law and reality; a difference between paper and theory, and practice. Good co-determination is regulated by setting a number of sharp frameworks, but you manage it mainly by doing so. This can only be done if the right culture prevails in an institution. A culture where the board can also contradict a client council. A culture in which the client council can and does reconnect to the clients. A culture in which people understand that if we want to make care as good and client-oriented as possible, we do it with all of us: clients and caregivers, family and administrators. As much as this law is needed, the right culture is needed. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what he is doing and what he is going to do in order to achieve this culture. Because only in such a culture can we help the client. To conclude once again with the words of Mrs Borst from her first legal treatment: "My view has always been that medicine, but also the whole health care system, must be serviceable to the patient, and that should not be the reverse." Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I call Mr Hijink, who is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a bill on participation in health care. The first question we then ask ourselves is: whose is the concern? As far as SP is concerned, the care of residents and caregivers, doctors and patients. However, we see, unfortunately, that in recent years care has become more and more of drivers. Decisions on the quality of care, and on the growth and development of an organisation, are still too often taken over the heads of clients and patients. As far as the SP is concerned, that is a poor development. We therefore welcome the fact that this legislative proposal is moving the balance of power in the right direction, in the direction of the people who depend on the care that is being provided. Mr. Chairman. You would actually say that a good director in the care does not need a law of participation to regulate participation in his organisation properly. Only very bad drivers see participation as a burden, as a cost. A good driver understands that with money that belongs to the community, you belong to patients, you have to create a safe and caring place for people who need care. Then it is very obvious that you are constantly talking to your residents or your patients and that you are not afraid to always have your own judgment checked by people who are affected by your decisions. Fortunately, there are such drivers. Thank God they're here. But the fact that we are here today to discuss this law also shows that good participation for many drivers is not yet a matter of course. Mr. Chairman. If you read through the legal text, you will feel the fear of directors and of this government that clients may have too much influence. We could just see that again in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Bergkamp, that a client council might be sitting on the driver's seat, or that he might intervene in the event of a merger. We would very much welcome that. Apparently, there is a fear that management, a term which, of course, does not belong at all in the care sector, is at risk if power over the use of money and resources is to be shared. Of course, that fear is not justified. Of course, clients and patients stand up for their own interests. That makes perfect sense, doesn't it? But in the case of care, this is also precisely the importance of the care provider. It should not put scale, competition or operating results first, but the importance of good care and a safe environment to stay. As far as the SP is concerned, questions remain open. For example, our group has been surprised that the Minister chooses not to regulate participation in the place where care is provided, but more at a central level. The original bill provided that a healthcare provider with multiple locations per location set up a client council, unless it is considered reasonable to do so. The new legislative proposal reverses this point of departure. An institution may set up multiple client councils, but this only happens when a group of clients so requests. We do not understand this reversal, because for real participation it is important that the legal basis is very solid. Clients should not have to fight their right to co-determination. It's their right. That is why we are tabling an amendment to strengthen local participation. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he's willing to support that. What is good about this law is that client councils are more involved in important decisions, for example on mergers and conversions. But does the client council have effective control over the outcome of the trial? I just asked Mrs Bergkamp the same question. Why doesn't the Minister choose to have clients actually give their consent to important decisions that affect precisely their care, their lives, their future? If a driver cannot explain to his own residents or prove why a merger is very good, why should that merger continue? Clients attach the greatest importance to the continuity of their institution, to the continuity of care. After all, it's about their care, their life. A heavier voice in important decisions would therefore make perfect sense as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	When I listen to the speech of the SP in this way, it seems as if the Client Council has no right of assent at all to very important decisions. To be honest, I find the story a little black and white. We just had an interrupting debate on mergers. Article 8 states everything in which the Client Council has the right of assent, such as the care plans, the quality, safety and hygiene, the admission, the nutritional matters, the social plan, the establishment and you name it all. It's a whole list. So I'm sorry that the SP is acting like the clients have nothing to say about this bill, even though there's a whole list. We can have a difference of opinion about mergers, but if you look at the client council's right of consent, you can see that he really has a lot to say about things that affect people's daily lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	We have actually just had this debate. Certainly, this law takes steps in the right direction, but the most important decisions that have led to great unrest and major failures in recent years relate to mergers, forced relocations or, for example, to a director who opts for real estate projects that have not helped the client or the patient at all. I think it is very good that there will be more control on the points mentioned by Mrs Bergkamp and that there will be a right of assent, but that does not alter the fact that the client council can only give advice on these most important decisions which can ultimately be set aside quite simply. And we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	It is important to conduct the debate as sharply as possible by also indicating where there is agreement and where there is advice. You can have a difference of opinion on that, but if the SP says that the Client Council can't really decide on very important things that affect people's lives, then I would say: read Article 8 again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's a little lame. In the law, Article 8 contains matters which are about consent and which are very important for people who reside in an institution, but I am talking about the things that are not in it and which are, as far as we are concerned, even more important. We will also be tabling an amendment on the appointment of new directors and supervisors. We believe that this should also be approved so that people who have left a trail of destruction somewhere else cannot simply be appointed to a supervisory board or a board of directors. I will continue my speech. For this reason, the SP has also tabled an amendment to move crucial decisions affecting the future of an institution from the advisory right to the right of assent. We do not think we can explain that clients are allowed to talk about how the discussion on a merger or relocation is conducted, but that there is no right to consent to mergers, relocations or other important decisions. Mr. Chairman. The SP also wants residents to have a say in the appointment of directors and supervisors. If directors or supervisors want to get rid of the organisation or a new director who has left a trail of destruction elsewhere, then we think it is a good thing that the client council can prevent such an appointment. I would like to hear whether the Minister agrees with us and welcome our amendment on this. This bill affects institutions under the Health Insurance Act, the Long-Term Care Act and the Youth Act. We continue to be surprised that institutions that operate under municipal care, the Wmo, are also excluded from the law. Unfortunately, we see that very often, from supervision by the inspection to now, the participation of clients. When will the cabinet realise that care and support within the Wmo must be of high quality and therefore also require national legislation? The Council of State has given a very critical opinion on this bill. For example, the Council of State stated that higher professional requirements are imposed on client councils and that the search for suitable residents to participate in them is difficult. The Council of State also indicates that the strengthening of the position of client councils entails the risk of faster confrontation between the parties in the discussion between the driver and the client council. The Council of State then concludes that it is therefore not clear to what extent the approach adopted to extend and strengthen the formal powers of client councils will actually contribute to achieving effective participation in health care institutions. That is quite fundamental criticism of this law. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to this criticism. Can the Minister also respond to the question why he chooses to keep the possibility open to providers and client councils to set up a committee of trusted people himself? Wouldn't it be much wiser for institutions to automatically join a national committee of trusted people? That is where the information is present, the independence is guaranteed and interests can be well protected. Can the Minister respond to that? Finally. When reading this law, and certainly the Minister's explanation of it, it starts to get to you occasionally. What rights and obligations does a client council have? The question is whether people who are going to take on this important task will be able to look at the new possibilities and, above all, the unopportunities sufficiently. In most cases it concerns the clients themselves, sometimes vulnerable people or their families, who already have a lot on their mind and are going to do this job. Then they must be well informed. Wouldn't it be nice if these people were to have a clear guide on what rights the client council has and how, as an individual, you could contribute to improving the health care institution you are so dependent on? Can the Minister promise that he will make such a manual and that it will be spread across all healthcare institutions, so that members of a client council or people who would like to become it are better prepared for the important work they are doing or are going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor. It speaks on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr President. The Christian Union Group attaches great importance to good participation of clients and patients in the care they receive. Provided that well-organised, this directly or indirectly involves clients, ensures that healthcare institutions do not lose sight of the human aspect and that clients feel heard and feel that their input really matters. This bill, which has been in preparation for several years, replaces the current law on employee participation in health care institutions of 1996. It proved to be rather difficult to reconcile the wishes of the care organisations on the one hand and the participation organisations on the other. Both sides have made far-reaching proposals to bring the law into line, but in some respects these proposals run counter to each other. It would then seem inevitable to look for the middle and, in some respects, to meet minimum standards. The Christian Union Group would have liked this to be different. My group attaches great importance to good and local participation for clients of healthcare institutions and thus to strong powers for client councils. At the same time, I do not have the illusion that a bill alone is sufficient. More is needed than amending legislation to bring about much-needed cultural change and to ensure more effective participation of clients in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mrs Dik-Faber says: we attach great importance to the fact that the client council is as close as possible to the place where the care is provided. What does she think of the weakening in this proposal? It is not chosen to take this as a starting point. The starting point is that only in the case of a call from clients to set up a client council will a client council be set up. That is actually a weakening of the current situation, while you could also opt for the idea that the starting point is that there is a client council at every location, unless there are reasons to waive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Hijink is asking me a good question. I shall come back to that in the course of my speech. I have an amendment in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	I see Mr. Hijink is already reassured. Mrs. Dik-Faber, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	My last sentence was that more is needed for effective participation of clients in care, namely a cultural change. Of course, this requires a certain amount from the board: that should take the wishes of clients seriously, listen to the client council and give them room to do so. On the other hand, client councils can do much more to include the wishes and opinions of the clients concerned and their representatives in opinions and decisions. I therefore welcome the new possibility of participation offered by the law. This is not only good for the clients, but also forces client councils to take into account direct participation and thus become closer to clients. As has been said, care organisations and participation organisations look very differently at the legislative proposal and wish for different adaptations. How's the minister looking at this? Does he think that this compromise legislative proposal can be sufficiently supported? How does he think this proposal will encourage cooperation between the various parties and the necessary cultural change? Experience with the current law is that there is often no proper participation, partly because the requirements of the law are weak and supervision is absent. Can the Minister, therefore, repeat what new safeguards the bill offers in this respect? Where can client councils go if they are not heard or perhaps even opposed? In the legislative proposal, the government mainly opts for the existing indirect participation through client councils. I have just mentioned it: direct participation, such as participation, can also be a good form of participation. However, participation in the legislative proposal is limited to institutions for long-term stays. Does the Minister see opportunities to promote direct participation elsewhere? Mr. Chairman. The research carried out by iBMG in connection with the Bouwmeester/Dik-Faber motion shows that participation benefits from variety and experimental space. However, according to participatory organisations, the legislative proposal does not provide much room for this. The Minister always states that the law lays down minimum standards and that there is therefore scope to make more agreements that go further. But to what extent is it possible for local client councils and institutions to deviate from the proposed legal provisions, even if this means doing less than setting minimum standards but that this will be compensated in other respects? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The bill states that institutions employing more than 10 healthcare providers are obliged to set up a client council. A first-line care organisation with many part-timers is thus connected to this number. This leads to a disproportionate administrative burden for such small healthcare organisations. With alternative forms of patient participation, these organisations can also ensure effective participation. That is why it seems to me to be defending to raise the threshold slightly, namely for ten FTEs, ten full-time units. How does the Minister feel about this? I am considering tabling an amendment on this. Mr. Chairman. PGB residential initiatives or parental initiatives are treated in this legislative proposal as professional health care institutions. The bill requires client councils to do so if more than ten healthcare providers are involved. And that is what these initiatives are all about, of course. Therefore, I do not think it is realistic for this obligation to apply to pgb residential initiatives, especially because parents have direct participation. They are also often members of the board of the institution. The bill allows for the exclusion from AMvB of certain types of care or categories of institutions. Is the Minister prepared to make an exception for such forms of care, i.e. pgb residential initiatives or parental initiatives? An exception would also make sense for a medical-specialist company within a hospital. For example, we can work with a single hospital and medical specialist company council. That also seems much clearer to the patients. Is the Minister prepared to make an exception here too? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group believes that local participation close to clients should be the norm. However, in the legislative proposal, the provision on the establishment of multiple client councils has been amended in relation to the consultation proposal. It's no-unless instead of yes-unless. Mr Hijink already referred to this. This means, in practice, that clients must first convince the institution of the usefulness of multiple client councils or of a separate client council per location. I do not think that this does justice to the government's desire to make local participation the norm. That is why I am preparing an amendment to change the "no' clause into a "yes' clause. I'd like to hear what the Minister thinks about that. The Christian Union Group considers it important that client councils receive good independent support. They must be able to arrange this support on their own. However, the selection and appointment of such persons shall be the responsibility of the institution. The Client Council may have advisory rights, but I think the right of consent is much more appropriate here. I tabled an amendment on this with D66. The legislative proposal does not contain an obligation on a minimum number of consultations between the institution and the client council. Why not? I'll ask the Minister. Is it not good to have a mandatory stand-of-business consultation at least once a year, as is customary with works councils? I'd like to hear an answer from the Minister. In fact, Article 6 merely contains an obligation to provide general information either orally or in writing, but that does not seem to be enough for my group. If the institution and the client council do not come out together, a Commission of Trusters can mediate and, if necessary, give a ruling. In the current law, the judgments of the Commission of Trusters are binding, and that is lifted in this bill. Instead, it will be possible to bring an action before the courts. My group fears that this will lead to unnecessary jurisdiction, especially if up to three appeals can be lodged with the canton court, the court and the Supreme Court. Is the Minister prepared to look again at alternatives that are less complex and not so legalising? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Good care falls or stands with the involvement of the wishes and needs of the clients. The clients must be at the centre. Clients' participation brings this goal closer. That's why this law is so important. And at the same time, let me come back to the beginning of my speech. How does this law become a reality? This also requires a change in culture. And with this apple, I would like to conclude my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you. I call Mr Slootweg. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. We often find control and participation in the environment commonplace. For example, we know associations of owners and tenant associations in which residents have control. In companies and organisations we have also arranged participation for employees through the works councils. Being able to talk and decide is important, especially if your position isn't equal but it's about you. Maybe it's even more important to have control when you're dependent on care. The government also recognises this in the government agreement, in which it is stated that the participation of clients in the policy of the healthcare provider should be laid down by law. The CDA wants clients and patients to be enabled through client councils not only to talk about policy but also to be able to stand alongside the patient in disputes. For a lot of clients, luckily, that's the way it is. An important step was taken in 1996 by the introduction of the Wmcz. However, the care landscape has changed considerably since 1996, and it is good that the law is now being reviewed, that it is being adapted to the needs of today and that the Client Council is being given the opportunity to play its role even better. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA there are a number of issues that I would like to raise here. First, that control is given in such a way that the voice of clients and residents is heard directly as much as possible. Secondly, this participation should relate as much as possible to the immediate environment. Our view is from the local to the upper class and not the other way around. Thirdly, a difference of opinion between management and client council must be decided quickly. In our view, the future can soon be looked at again by all parties. Fourthly, we must organise participation for healthcare organisations as simply as possible. And fifth, let us avoid unnecessary burdens. In order to have participation and participation, there has to be a client council first. However, we have also taken note of the 2014 figures showing that 30% of all healthcare providers required to do so do not have a client council from the Wmcz. Can the Minister indicate what the current state of affairs is? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister how many clients/patients do not have the opportunity to participate through a client council. In the note of report we see that this is mainly lacking in smaller organisations. How many times has the way to the canton court actually gone, asking for a client council to be set up? And how many times has this occurred specifically in primary care? A client council is about the voice of clients. Of course, it may be that clients themselves are no longer directly able to make their voices heard. However, it is our preference that the clients with support and coaching should be on the client council rather than representatives of clients. How is this contained in the present bill? And how can clients receive support? What incentives are there for a care institution to choose a client instead of a client's representative when it comes to taking a position on the client's board? Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, subsidiarity is a core concept in its thinking. This means that participation and participation should be organised as much as possible in the immediate environment. Many healthcare organisations are becoming more large-scale and complex, but that is precisely when this requires local control. In a previous design there was the yes-unless principle, so that a client council had to be arranged locally at each location. Now one opts for a no-unless principle, which means that more attention is paid to the central client council. Does the Minister consider, also looking at a program like Dignity and pride at any location, that it is more appropriate to include the yes-unless principle in the law? And what checks-and-balances are there in the handling of the no-unless the principle that participation is actually regulated at the level of the local establishment? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the division of powers between client councils. It must be avoided that the same is spoken of in different places. A clear demarcation of powers helps in this. Is it not appropriate to establish a legal criterion to ensure that topics of interest to a specific group of clients are dealt with by the client council set up for this group? The Central Client Board is then not competent in these matters. In the case of topics that are in the interest of all clients or multiple groups of clients for whom a client council has been set up, we would prefer that only the central client council should be competent to do so. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. In most institutions, contact between client council and management is good. We also need the Wmcz if this contact is not going well. In the current Wmcz the differences of opinion are assessed by the Commission of Trusters. The opinion of that committee shall then be binding. The current legislative proposal aims to replace this procedure with a complex procedure in which the dispute can be submitted to no less than four bodies. Mrs Dik-Faber has just explained this very well. For us, it is very important that this opinion should also be binding. Both the organisations of client councils and the interbranch organisations of care argue for one committee instead of the possibility of fragmentation. How does the Minister view the idea of a new law that all healthcare organisations should continue to use the National Commission of Trusters and that their rulings are binding? Mr. Chairman. The care provided under the Wmo 2015 is not covered by the Wmcz. This can lead to strange situations. First, there are many healthcare providers that offer care under both the Wlz and the Wmo 2015. This can lead to the creation of two client councils with a healthcare provider. This seems undesirable to us. Isn't it more convenient to opt for one kind of client council? I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the choice of Wmcz to join the Wkkgz, there is concern at the CDA as to whether there will be a disproportionate burden increase for primary care providers. How common are the decisions on which a client council should advise in everyday practice with small-scale primary care providers? Think of the annual accounts or the budget. The Ministry assumes that care providers with more than 10 healthcare providers have a management or administrative layer. This is not always the case in primary care. The practical owner himself is in most cases a health care provider. Is this not an enormous additional administrative burden, which could be at the expense of care? On the one hand we are working on (Ont)Rule de Zorg and we have a broad agreement in which much more time is needed for the patient. On the other hand, this is an example of perhaps unnecessary bureaucracy. The NZa and the Council of State take the view that these care providers are not obliged to set up a client council. Can the Minister respond to this? The CDA believes that we should also properly organise the control of the care of clients in primary care. But as far as the CDA is concerned, it could be different. Does the Wmcz 2018 offer room to organise customer control for, for example, general practitioners through information evenings? How does the Minister view this? Does he see a difference between first- and second-line care, or perhaps even more between cure and care in terms of participation? Are there opportunities to work with a heavier and lighter regime? Finally, Mr President. In view of the number of changes in participation in the institutions that have been made with this legislative proposal, I am pleased to read in the letter of amendment that the law will be reviewed within five years of its entry into force, because it is not just about the law, but also about culture. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. I think that we should also look at this every time to see whether a culture that can achieve a better understanding between clients and administrators can also be secured. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I call Mr Stoffer. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. The SGP is for the participation of clients and patients in the care they receive. Fortunately, this is happening a lot in practice too, often and well. At the same time, we see practical bottlenecks that call for a solution. We therefore welcome the government's desire to tackle the problems of participation in practice. Let me therefore begin with a compliment. This bill actually contains more possibilities than the current law to organise participation in a way that is better suited to the client and better suited to this time. There is a real improvement in the regulation of participation. But you already feel a "but" coming, Mr. Chairman, and you're right. Less regulatory burden, less administrative burden and less bureaucracy: these were the great promises in the election time. These are also the objectives that the cabinet sets itself in the coalition agreement and continues to confess with its mouth. That is precisely why it is disappointing that the cabinet is moving in exactly the opposite direction with this bill. We had hoped that the cabinet had learned from the counter-vote of the SGP at the Care and Force Act, but unfortunately, the cabinet also saddles care organisations with this bill with even more rules, even more legalizations and even more unnecessary costs. That's not supposed to happen, is it? My first and most important question to the cabinet is therefore: how come the cabinet, despite all promises of less administrative burdens, has not managed to keep pace? And why hasn't the Cabinet broken any rules? We are pleased that participation in this law is better regulated. We are also very positive about the early involvement of clients in all the decisions that are being made. However, Mrs Bergkamp already gave it to Mr Bergkamp, which should not lead to clients sitting on the driver's seat. So we see many positive points, but also a number of points on which we are less positive. Given the time available, I shall confine myself to those final points. First-line organisations must now also set up a client council if this bill is to continue. On this point, something special is happening in the government's reasoning. Parliamentary history shows that it has never been the intention of the legislator to include small-scale, first-line care providers in the functioning of the current Wmcz. In practice, therefore, no small-scale healthcare provider has set up a client council and is not expected to do so by the supervisors and the inspection. But the cabinet maintains in response to our questions at high and low levels that nothing changes for these healthcare providers at all. Does the Minister recognize that this is simply not true? How does he reflect on his answers in the light of legal history? How does the Minister reconcile this with (Ont) Regulal de Zorg and the main agreement on the first line, in which more time for the patient gets prominent attention? The Council of State also took a negative view of the proposal that the rules of participation should apply virtually without differentiation to all types of care and categories of institutions, not because control and participation would be undesirable to first-line organisations, but because the form of participation, as proposed by this proposal, simply does not fit in with those organisations. They organise participation in other, much more effective ways. The Council of State has therefore recommended that the differences relevant to the design of effective participation between institutions, forms of care and care relationships be better reflected in the proposal. I am therefore considering tabling an amendment to exclude the first line from this law. I'd like to hear the cabinet's response. The SGP identifies a similar bottleneck when it comes to the proposed right of inquiry. What are the government's arguments for bombing care organisations into a strange duck in the bite? Apart from care, the right of inquiry generally applies to foundations and associations employing more than 50 people. However, the government proposes to apply it to health care for organisations where there are generally more than ten health care providers. That doesn't make any sense, does it? Is the government willing to raise this line to 50 employees? Mr. Chairman. On the proposed right of assent, the SGP has already raised a number of fundamental questions in the report. Not all of them have been answered satisfactorily. In particular, the SGP considers that it is too easy for the Minister to ignore the fact that a healthcare provider has to deal with many, often conflicting interests with which he has to deal. A client council, on the other hand, has an important voice in important decisions, but does not necessarily have to balance all these interests in a balanced way. This can lead to imbalances in decision-making. The SGP therefore remains in favour of the increased advisory right. At the same time, we see that there is no majority for this in this Chamber. Would the government, with this objection in mind, be prepared to ensure that a test by the Commission of Trusters or the judge is not limited to serious business or corporate social reasons, but will apply to all major reasons? Does the Minister agree with the SGP that this will allow and maintain a more balanced balance of interests while at the same time strengthening the law of the Client Council? Mr. Chairman. Contrary to the current situation, the government opens the possibility of appealing against a judgment of the Commission of Trusters. The SGP understands this wish, but considers it reasonable to be able to proceed through the canton court and the court to the Supreme Court. That takes years and costs many tons. In addition, the Wmcz would become the only participation law providing for a dispute procedure in which four authorities judge. Clients' organisations wrote to the House of Representatives: "With the current legislative proposal, we fear that client councils will be less likely to file a dispute because a complex legal procedure will then be continuously pending, with all the additional costs for the institution. We do not believe that this is desirable. We therefore hope that you will agree with us that the statements of the National Commission of Trusters should be binding." Healthcare providers also fear major costs and lengthy procedures. That is why the question of how the government came up with this proposal is justified. Whose wish was that? And what kind of problem does this solve? Would it not suffice to bring the appeal procedure back to two bodies? I have tabled an amendment to this effect. The Entrepreneurship Chamber also plays this role in the Law on Participation in Schools. In addition, the Enterprise Chamber assesses disputes concerning the application of advisory law on the basis of the Works Councils Act. Therefore, expertise has already been built up in the assessment of participation disputes. Therefore, the SGP proposes to give the Enterprise Chamber this role in the Wmcz. I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet, especially since it can substantially reduce the costs of the appeal procedure both in time and in money. Mr. Chairman. In the original legislative proposal, the government proposes in Article 6 that the institution should bear all the costs incurred by a client council to submit a case to the Commission of Trusters. On second thought, the government considered this provision too broad as it might provide an incentive for the client councils to organise legal assistance. It is therefore settled by letter of amendment that an institution is not obliged to reimburse the costs incurred by the Client Council for hiring legal assistance to conduct a case for the Commission of Trusters. The SGP notes that such an incentive is necessary when an appeal is brought before a court under Article 6 (5). We understand that legal assistance will always be needed in the courts, and we also consider it reasonable for the institution to bear the costs. What we do not consider reasonable, however, is that these costs are potentially unlimited. To put it in normal Dutch: if we are not careful, especially expensive lawyers at the Zuidas will benefit. Would it not therefore be desirable, I ask the Cabinet, to introduce a clause here too, which only covers costs that are reasonably necessary? What does the government think of the suggestion that a binding ruling can be requested from the Commission of Trusts in the event of disagreement between the institution and the client council? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has expressed concern that the extension and strengthening of the powers of client councils will lead to higher professional requirements of participating clients. The Council also notes that this will make the search for suitable clients to participate in these councils more difficult and will make it even less representative than is already the case. The SGP is also concerned about this, as the report has shown. The government's answers to the questions asked do not convince us yet. Therefore, again the question whether the government sees this risk of non-representative client councils and what opportunities it sees to change this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	Thank you. There is another question for you from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. I shall go back a few steps in Mr Stoffer's speech. If I have listened carefully, he has pleaded for the whole first line to work under this law. He's confirming this. Now my question is the following. If we look now at the mergers that are causing large health centres, and if we look at the movement from the second line to the first line, which makes that first line even heavier, is this proposal from the SGP, for which it is considering tabling an amendment, not too short? Is it not, in the case of the movement from the second line to the first line and from those larger health care institutions, that the client is not sufficiently heard? I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	Our assessment is that primary care generally concerns small organisations. If that is not the case, I will be happy to hear the questions we have also asked the Minister, or perhaps that is the same kind of problem. For the moment, we do not believe that this is too short. But if that is not the case, of course we would like to be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	First line and small organisations: I think that's a time where we come from, but that's really changing. I would therefore very much like to draw Mr Stoffer's attention to an amendment that we are considering. Perhaps we can also ask the Minister together to change the part of the law that talks about ten people working in an institution into ten FTEs, ten full-time units, so that you can actually get those smaller first-line institutions out of the law, but in larger first-line institutions this law really applies to clients and ultimately to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mrs Dik, you have already asked the Minister that question. So we will hear the answer later on and we will, of course, have heard it all again. I therefore consider your suggestion, but only after the cabinet's reply has come our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	Then thank you again, Mr. Stoffer. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr President. In early 2015, I wrote an own-initiative paper entitled "Health in balance," which was actually about restoring a desired balance between patients, healthcare providers and healthcare insurers. At that time, I said, and with me, many other spokesmen in this Chamber, that it is precisely the position of the patient and the client that needs to be strengthened. Of course, there was already a law that took a first step. Now we are discussing the amendment of that law and I am very pleased with it, because I think we are taking some important steps forward and that the needs of clients are given a central place in the decisions of an institution's management. That affects their daily lives. It is important that they can talk about how their lives and care are organised. My group therefore welcomes this. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the starting point must always be that people who are subject to this policy when it comes to care are at the heart of the decision-making process. This also means that it really must be the starting point for policy and decisions on care, and that it should not take place somewhere in the margins. Then perhaps I am not doing exactly the right thing with the progress that is being made, but still important steps can be taken that are not yet being taken. As far as my group is concerned, they are about direct participation at local level. This is not sufficiently achieved by the proposals that are now before us. The fact that the proposal does not go far enough has everything to do with the perception of client participation. It is very strongly driven from the thought that the voice of the clients would always be meant as a correction to policy or as a valuable counter-noise. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, customers' wishes and ideas should be among the main starting points for an institution and for the way care is organised. Is it a countersound or correction, or is it the starting point of good care? These opposing views can also be illustrated by the discussion on the influence of client councils on mergers, new construction and renovation; we discussed them earlier during an interrupting debate. For example, the Council of State recommended reconsidering the initial right of consent due to its impact on the management of a health care institution. Consequently, the right of assent has also been changed to an advisory right on this point. But shouldn't we want clients' councils to actually have an impact on the management of an organisation that provides their care? Should a major decision such as a merger not be taken only when it is made in the interests of the clients? And shouldn't the clients also have a voice when it comes to these decisions? My group believes that asking these questions is also an answer to them. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's important for a client council to know what clients need and what they think is important. Because only then can a client council perform its function well. People in need of care should be able to define the agenda for participation. Without conversations with people who live and work in those health care institutions, it is difficult for client councils to come up with advice that is really widely supported by the clients themselves. In order to achieve this, participation should be designed as locally as possible. Then the lines are shortest and a client council cannot be separated from the people for whom one is committed. Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the current legislative proposal still does not take sufficient account of the link between participation and participation at local level. The Minister states that he considers it important that client councils have direct contact with the client himself, but why did he choose to assume central participation unless an institution believes that this can reasonably be otherwise? It must then come from the bottom up and all kinds of steps must be taken. Shouldn't the starting point be that participation is organised as close to the client as possible? And how does the Minister expect the contact between the client and the participation council to be strengthened when local participation is not the guiding principle? I'd like a reaction to that, too. Mr President, I will conclude. GroenLinks sees major challenges to strengthen the position of clients. The local organisation of participation, the strengthening of participation and the reduction of guidance on financial incentives, which are sometimes leading by directors, is necessary to allow people to actually participate in the choices made within the care. The Client Council should be the bridge between people's living world and the system world of rules, procedures and protocols in which directors are located. GroenLinks therefore hopes that the Minister's efforts to reduce this gap will not stop with this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I call Mrs De Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you are staying in a healthcare institution for a long time or need daily care at home, you want to be able to influence things that determine your daily life. It should be logical for good care to take into account the wishes and needs of the clients. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is mainly a culture of care institutions, healthcare professionals and administrators. It should be normal to study how customers want to organize their day, what day activities they want to do, what they want to eat and how they want to live. The culture in health care institutions is crucial. We see in practice that healthcare professionals do their stinking best every day for patients and clients to take into account their needs and needs, and to provide loving care. Mr. Chairman. Many health care institutions already have client councils. The VVD recognizes the legitimate complaint that they often do not receive sufficient support to do their job properly. It is therefore a good thing that this bill regulates that support improves, as far as we are concerned, without these client councils turning into professional chat clubs with professional representatives. The question to the Minister is how this can be prevented. It should be about the clients/patients or, if they can't do it themselves, direct representatives of them, such as parents, children or other relatives. Client boards should include members who have a direct link with the care provided. How is that guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	There is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs De Vries says that the client council should not become a professional chat club. I agree with that. However, if I have understood correctly, you yourself have tabled an amendment to oblige the client council to have contact with clients, or even to lay down the law. So you are going to professionalize it all by regulating this in the law. If you don't want to do that, don't you have to table those kind of amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	I think it's important that client councils have rights, but I also think it's important that they also answer to their supporters, to the clients they represent. I think those two should go hand in hand. Those aren't very heavy cases at all. I think it's normal that you support what advice you give, that it's normal that you keep in touch with your constituents and that it's normal that if you ask the board to consult with you in good time, you also deliver your advice in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	The point is, of course, this is about people: clients and patients. They live there, so they are in daily conversation with their fellow residents about what's going on in the client council, what's going on in the organization they're working on. What the VVD does is formalize this again by including it in the law. That is exactly what she is going to go back to in a professional chat club that Mrs De Vries herself says she doesn't want. So it's actually at odds with your own starting point about what a client council should be. I think it makes sense for a client council to keep in touch with the supporters; I don't think you need to settle that in the law anymore. It makes sense that you talk to each other on a regular basis. That's what you're in the same institution for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	It's not for nothing that this law regulates that there will be more support for the client council. We think that's good, too. But I do find it very special that we take care of a number of things and that we all consider it important that those client councils have contact with their constituents, the people they represent. This may be very logical and very easy in a small organisation because there is direct contact, but in large organisations it may be a little more complicated. I think it's important that in addition to having rights, you also answer for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	The point is that in the current bill, the client council is not organised as close as possible to the place where the care takes place. Much has already been said about this; that is, of course, the problem. Then Mrs De Vries has a point. Because if you put it remotely, you'll all need formal procedures to have some contact with the people who are in a very different location. That's why there's the proposal of a "s' so I'm tasting much of this Chamber to organize those client councils on location, so that you have that contact permanently and so you don't have to formalize it. Precisely because of the way the law is now written, you get these kinds of formal contacts, formal decisions and formal consultation moments that you're going to organize between client council and clients, while in a normal situation, when you're organizing the client council on site, you don't need them all. So we don't have to have this whole VVD proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	I do not really hear a question in this; it is more of a observation. I disagree. I also think that you should look at how to organize it as closely as possible with the people, but that does not mean that you should assume that there should be a separate client council at each location, because we also see that sometimes it is complicated enough to have enough people who want to take on that representative role. I gotta tell you, it's not nothing either. It also requires a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	These last words give us some hope, because I hear Mrs De Vries now saying that she also thinks it is important that it is organized as closely as possible to the people. Then I would say: take the next step in the change, namely that we should assume 'locally organized, unless we really couldn't'. I will also come to another point. Mrs De Vries says that this cultural change is so important. That is precisely by organizing it small-scale, because then the lines are short. Then we can take immediate and easier account of the wishes that live there very locally and then we can also initiate changes instead of organising the far away, which means that we have to go through all kinds of detours again to ensure that there is sufficient contact between the floor and the council itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	I must honestly say that the current bill states that clients can state themselves whether they want a client council at the location. I think that in most cases clients are also perfectly capable of doing so. Otherwise, you're gonna arrange for every location to have a client council. Clients' councils can sometimes also give contradictory advice. I think you should take a look at that, too. I believe that a number of parties in this Chamber, including the VVD, want small-scale initiatives, for example in the care sector. In a number of cases, you get a very large fragmentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	It is of course important to determine what the starting point is. Is the starting point that we organize the client councils locally or is the starting point that we do not and that it could be possible, with additional efforts, in a number of locations? We're talking about that starting point right now. I ask Mrs De Vries whether she does not agree that a local client council should be the starting point, not centrally organised, away from the daily lives of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	You bring it now as some sort of contradiction. I do not believe in that contradiction, because a decentralised location can also request the creation of a client council. You pretend that's not possible at all and it's only possible to have a central client council. That's what I'm thinking. How do you say that? It is a difference in taste, but I believe that it is possible in both cases to organize this very close to the clients. I think that the other involves a great deal of red tape and bureaucracy: first we have to look at whether people want to do so in a location and then we have to say it actively: no, we do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes. We've just talked about it a little bit, but okay. I'll keep my story about this anyway. Clients' councils get better support and more rights through this bill. That's good. As far as the VVD is concerned, there are also direct responsibilities for clients. They too will have to be accountable. I think it is important that the members of the client councils keep in regular contact with their supporters. This can be regulated in domestic regulations, but it doesn't have to be. In addition, the care institution must give the client council a reasonable period of time to give its opinion. As far as we are concerned, that is right. However, the client council must respond within a reasonable period of time. This is also in the interests of continuity of care provision. Clients' councils should also explain why they may or may not agree to a proposed decision in order to be accountable to their supporters. We would like to incorporate these responsibilities into the law, and that is why we have indeed tabled an amendment on this subject together with D66. Mr. Chairman. Like the SGP, I come to the initiative (Ont)Rule de Zorg. We think this is important, because the regulation is a great frustration for many healthcare professionals. There is often work out of distrust rather than trust. The rules create a lot of workload. The coalition agreement therefore rightly includes scrapings for care. That is of course good, but we also need to look at the regulatory burden in the case of new laws and regulations, and that is why the VVD wants to do so in the case of legislative proposals. That means for us: also looking at the proportionality of regulation, for example when it comes to small healthcare providers and healthcare professionals. The pharmacists welcome their justified exemption and the general measure announced, but there are more parties calling the bell. The first-line organisations fear an increase in administrative burden and an increase in the financial burden. Collaborations of individual professionals quickly reach more than 10 people. The medical-specialist companies see another problem arising, namely multiple client councils in one hospital, and that is not what the VVD would like either. And as far as pgb-funded old housing initiatives are concerned, you cannot say that there is no direct participation or participation. With the many part-timers who are active in healthcare, you quickly arrive at the mandatory client council. I'm sure there will be more examples. We should also not only look at those who have just happened to be calling the doorbell. The VVD would like to find a solution. This could be done, for example, by increasing the limit for the mandatory client council from more than 10 to more than 50 care providers. This is in line with the health-wide governance code, but also with the Works Councils Act. We would like a response from the Minister on the issue of the regulatory burden, the burden increase and the concerns of the various parties regarding the level of that border. Mr. Chairman. An evaluation of this law is planned after five years. The VVD would like to see an intermediate position given halfway through the ride, which also looks at additional control pressure and costs in practice. Can the Minister undertake to do so? The law now provides that a small healthcare provider who voluntarily sets up a client council should, as far as we are concerned, be obliged to comply with all the requirements of the law. Given the proportionality of the regulation, the VVD considers that to be a bit far-reaching. We believe that it will ensure that small healthcare providers do not set up a client council soon. It will therefore create an additional threshold, while encouraging participation. That's why we want to propose a lighter regime for a voluntary client council. In the meantime, the VVD has tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union and D66. The VVD also has a question about this. You will soon be able to remove a voluntary client council only with the agreement of the client council or the Commission of Trusters. Why was this chosen? For if the number of employees falls from 10 to 1 or 2 people, I understand that the healthcare provider may want to make a different choice. And how complicated is such a procedure? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few loose points. First of all, the dispute procedure. Several people have already spoken about this. I shall now move on to another subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u60	There is a question for you from Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u61	All the parties that have spoken so far say about the legislative proposal we are discussing today that it is also a step forward that they want to make more mature and stronger participation in health care. I actually only hear the VVD putting forward proposals that lead to a step backwards when it comes to participation. You say think about raising the border to 50. You are not in favour of automatically regulating participation close to the people. You want lighter regimes. And you want more exceptions. Am I right that it seems that the VVD is the only party here that advocates less participation in care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u62	You may have missed the beginning of my story, but then I devoted a number of words to it. I said, for example, that I think it is a legitimate complaint that the client councils are not sufficiently supported. We think we are taking some good steps here, but there are other interests as well. It can't be that we're just talking about regulatory pressure in a debate, or that we're just talking about health care costs in a debate, and not about all the other things. Nor can it be that, when we talk about participation, we only look very narrowly at that part, but not at regulatory pressure and not at burden increases. That does not change the fact that we consider participation in health care to be very important, but we want to continue to look at these other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u63	Of course, when you assess a legislative proposal, you look at other issues, so I agree with Mrs De Vries on that. By the way, I have heard her words at first, but I reject them against a number of concrete proposals which she seemed to make. Perhaps a few of them have been missed, but they give the impression that this is more a reduction in co-determination than a strengthening of co-determination which the VVD would like to see achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u64	Look, I think participation is above all a point of culture. Everyone thinks: we can settle that, we make a law, we draw up rules. That might help. And there are definitely some good leads in it. I have already mentioned that the support of these client councils should be improved. But you can't do it alone. A culture change must really be in the directors, and in the care professionals, who must be an integral part of the care they provide to clients and patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u66	Yes. The dispute procedure. Disputes can now be lodged with such a Commission of Trusters, and in many cases it will be the National Commission of Trusters. Why wasn't it chosen to oblige that National Commission of Trusters? Isn't that much clearer and doesn't it give you more equal statements? And after the Committee of Trustlors, the way is open to the canton judge, the court and the Supreme Court. That could be a very long journey. In the Law on Participation in Schools, a shorter procedure was chosen, namely a Disputes Committee, and in the second and last instance the Business Chamber of the Amsterdam Court. The VVD would like to move towards a shorter procedure. Why has there not been a similar procedure here, with a single possibility of appeal? What possibilities does the Minister see for this? The criterion to deviate from a negative advice of the Client Council seems to be tightening up. Until now, the decision could continue if that was reasonable, in future it can continue if the refusal of consent of the client council is unreasonable or if there are serious reasons why the decision should continue. Why was this chosen, and what exactly does this mean? The test of the Commission of Trusts and the judge appears to be limited to major business organizational, business-economic and corporate social reasons. Here again, I ask: why was this chosen? Because care-related aspects such as the quality of care, safety, hygiene and future stakeholders are also aspects that can be considered for a care institution. Can a healthcare institution deviate from this for this kind of reason? Then there is my final point. Clients' councils are given advisory rights in the selection and appointment of persons in charge of those who provide direct care to clients. It is, of course, a good thing that client councils are considering the personnel policy of a care institution, and the type of care staff and the type of management they want. But we also believe that other interests should be taken into account, for example those of care workers and health professionals, the people we all cherish. The balance seems to be slightly distorted. We would like to see a response from the Minister: how does he view that? Finally. I hope that this law solves the current bottlenecks for effective participation, but also does not create unnecessary regulatory burdens and additional care costs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I call Mr Kerstens, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u68	Good morning, Mr. Chairman, and everyone else. The Labour Party believes that people should be able to participate, be able to take part in decisions on matters that are important to them, whether as a resident of a neighborhood, a city, a municipality or a country, as a student or as a student, as a tenant of a home or as an employee, and of course as a client or as a patient in care. It is obvious to us that you can influence what happens to you, how that happens and how things are organized. But as we all know, things that are self-evident don't happen by themselves. I am therefore pleased that this bill seeks to make the participation of clients in care, patients, more mature and stronger. As the Labour Party, it is also something that can be read back for today. Especially in the care, where what happens and how it happens is often far-reaching for the client or patient, who may be even more dependent than all the others I have just mentioned, a firm legal anchoring of participation is important. In the end, care is about those clients and patients: their health and well-being. I agree with everyone who says that good participation needs more than such an anchoring in the law and that good participation is not something that you regulate in a law for a while, such as: now it is on paper, so now it is going to happen. Things such as use, history and, above all, culture are equally important in an organisation or a sector. But I do not agree with those who say that this is why we need to work on it first and that we can look at the law afterwards. It's more like doing one thing for me and not leaving the other. With a firm legal anchor, the desired culture of participation is helped, so to speak. Mr. Chairman. Now, let's get to the content. In the explanatory memorandum of the legislative proposal, the Minister almost entirely points out at the beginning that the lack of financial resources and lack of specific expertise regularly hinder adequate and good participation of client councils. The Labour Party has previously called, inter alia in the case of motion, for these defects to be dealt with effectively. That is what the Minister writes in the same explanatory statement. That's good. It's about time. Article 6 of the Bill discusses, inter alia, the use of facilities and the reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred by the Client Council, e.g. for training. Those are steps forward. What is missing, however, is the lack of a number of organisations that are active in the field of participation in health care, as well as a number of colleagues here, that a client council, if it wishes to do its important work properly, should be able to decide for itself by whom it wishes to be assisted or supported. There must be faith in his ability, in the independence of such a person. One must trust one another and be able to read and write with one another. But in the bill, the institution is about that. That's crazy. That's what the Labour Party wants. The Client Council must, of course, within the agreed costs, itself be responsible for whom it wishes to be supported and/or assisted. I had written an amendment on this, but I am a little behind in the queue. Fortunately, I have also heard from a number of other colleagues that they want the same thing. At least that brings one step closer to what I just intended. Mr. Chairman. The same difference between what the minister writes in the explanatory statement and what he ultimately does in the bill is also in what needs to be done with larger institutions with multiple locations where people stay long-term. The Minister writes that in long-term care or long-term residence in a care institution there is a need for extensive protection of client interests and that this category of often vulnerable patients, even more than other categories, is highly dependent on the provision of care for a good quality of life, which is often necessary and may be intensive for further life. Next, the Minister literally says that participation is certainly of close interest to this group. And the minister also points out that people's interests can vary from one location to another. Cat in the bag for participation at every location, you'd think. But, no, according to the Minister's proposal, we will do so only if there is a request from a representative client representation to be considered. A threshold is therefore created first by laying down the responsibility for setting up a client council with clients and their caregivers and then introducing an unclear criterion. Because when is it representative? If 10% of people ask for it? 51%? What if there's some fuss about it? Do people have to cross a threshold and go to court? Let us just do what the Minister himself has the strongest arguments for. If we want participation close to the people, let us take it seriously and set up a client council at each location in principle, unless that would be unreasonable for the institution in question. So we are talking about not 'no participation unless', but 'no participation unless'. I also had an amendment to this effect, but I am glad that a number of other Members have the same wish. Mr. Chairman. If there is a difference of opinion between the client council and the driver, the way to the National Commission of Trusters is open and then makes a ruling. Why isn't that ruling binding? Why not make a clear statement from the Minister on the fact that there will be one committee? Like other colleagues, I assume that the costs incurred by a client council for, for example, legal support in reasonable terms when it comes to the committee will be reimbursed. I have just said that strengthening participation in the law helps the cultural change that is absolutely necessary in the care sector, where participation is not seen as difficult, annoying and unnecessary, but as added value and contributing to better care. Of course, this should help by checking whether what we put into the law is actually happening in practice and by acting if necessary if it does not happen. Thus, as it is called, the bill sets up compliance with the law by the Health and Youth Inspectorate. In itself, I am in favour of the inspection being given a role in this, because, as the Minister writes, it is no longer necessary to go to court anyway. I'd like to hear from the Minister how the inspection will do that. Is there a plan? Is there money? Are there people? How does the Minister ensure that the inspection does indeed, as he claims, act faster and more decisively? Is there monitoring, reporting and reporting to the Chamber? I mean, I wouldn't like to trade the hallway to the judge for something that turns out to be nothing, which is nothing. The Minister writes that the inspection will disclose in good time how the monitoring now allocated to the inspection will be handled. I don't think that's possible. If, in a legislative proposal, you remove the way to the judge and replace it with a role of inspection, "timely" as far as I am concerned means "at the latest" when discussing the law, now that the Chamber is looking at whether it is a good idea. To judge that, you have to know how and what the inspection is going to do, how to walk new shoes before you throw away your old shoes? How's the Minister handling this omission? Mr. Chairman. The new law will in principle apply to all health care institutions where there are usually 10 or more people employed, but there are exceptions, or better still, exceptions. In this context, the Minister has announced a general measure of governance, which will state where the law does not apply and, in simple terms, does not require the establishment of a client council. In fact, I would have found it more logical in this case if it were already clear what these exceptions are, we already know some of them, according to the Minister. I trust that the Chamber will be able to discuss this further. I would like to give the Minister a suggestion, one that has been put forward to us by, among other things, Per Balance, the representative of people with a personal budget. That suggestion, Mrs Dik-Faber, was already talking about excluding from the law the so-called parental initiatives, by parents of adult children with restrictions and small-scale housing schemes, and thus in that general measure of governance. In the light of the arguments before the law, it would be the horse behind the car if the direct control that parents now have in these cases had to be surrendered in favour of participation. That can't be the intention. I would like to hear from the Minister that he agrees with me and that there will be an exception. Finally, Mr President. The Labour Party was, is and will remain a warm supporter of participation, of being able to influence matters that are important for people. This applies everywhere but certainly also in healthcare and elsewhere in the public sector, such as housing corporations and education. Where public money is used, public interests must be well protected, better protected, including through participation. Where public money is used, adult participation contributes to improvement and to a better awareness of who we all do it for. I hope this law will do its part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema. She speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we do not slow down the administration of healthcare institutions in their often megalomaniac plans, we see that they are going to invest in TV channels, derivatives or wretched care palaces. Or they want to merge with other institutions, because the bigger and more powerful, the more prestigious they are as drivers and the more salary they can ask for. It is clear that the administration of health care institutions with this kind of practice is putting themselves far away from the patient or client to whom care is provided, but the question is whether this bill will change anything about that. Patients and clients are obviously entitled to high quality and safe care, with or without residence. It is up to the government to monitor this and actively adjust it if care institutions derail. We have the inspection and the Dutch Healthcare Authority for this. It is also up to the government to ensure a proper complaint regime and a trust committee when things go wrong or there are conflicting interests. We are therefore in favour of legislation to monitor and hold caregivers accountable. By our group, there has been a merger test for institutions and an accreditation test for drivers. Through us mystery guests are used to visit unannounced nursing homes and check the quality of care. As far as we are concerned, caregivers will also be held jointly and severally liable in the event of maladministration and the job carousel will be abolished. In short, strict rules and strict enforcement. The position of the patient or client is also best served by the commitment to small-scale care, with informal contact between care provider and care provider, an open dialogue, more time for each other and more staff. This ensures shorter lines and an open and transparent culture, in which complaints and problems can be discussed again. But we're not there yet, and the question is whether this bill is going to get us this far. In fact, this legislative proposal could easily result in the client council being upgraded to a bureaucratic layer, which is going to consult and meet, and will cost a lot of time and money. The administrative burden, organisational burden and financial burden could simply increase rather than decrease. It could turn the client councils directly against the board, so that they can deal with each other with legal texts and legal advice. It might not bring the driver any closer to the patient or client. And maybe it grows incomprehension instead of understanding, and it doesn't create cooperation, but rather opposition. The Association of Branch Organisations Health fears "unnecessary legalisation, unnecessary costs, lengthy procedures and bottlenecks in relation to responsibility sharing." The Minister does not yet have an answer to this. He also has no answer to the question as to why the first line should be included in the legislative proposal. We would like to hear his views on both points. Whether this law will be a success is largely an air bike business. The proof of the pudding is once again in the eating. I welcome the distinction between Article 7 on advice and Article 8 on consent. The directors are there to make institutions function, to make decisions and to be accountable. Clients' councils must want to stay away from that. They represent patients or clients. Thank God they are not professionals in administrative or organizational science. You can't do it to client councils that they have to deal with strategic choices like merging or defuse, strength-weakness analyses, labels and horizons? Clients' councils are there to care about essentials such as tasty meals, the atmosphere in the living room, and the opening hours of the hairdresser and shop. They make it hard for residents to take a walk and that there may be daily showers if residents want to, and see whether or not mental care is available. That's where their power lies. Moreover, I would like to make an exception here for the Heink amendment (34858, No. 8). Many hearts cried out here in this house for breaking the carousel of dysfunctional managers. The right of consent of the Client Board for the appointment of directors may well be a very effective means of cutting off that old boys network. Mr. Chairman. In the light of this, too, I find Article 7j to be rather wondrous. The Client Council shall have the opportunity to advise on the selection and appointment of persons who will provide independent support to the Client Council. I think that's crazy. Why can't the client councils decide for themselves? Why do they not have the right to consent with whom they support? I would ask the Minister to go into that and explain to the Chamber why he does not give them a right of assent on that point. Finally. We are a warm supporter of direct participation of patient and client intended to improve care or stay in care. That is why there is also our initiative on the right of residence for residents of health care institutions. However, this law is surrounded by uncertainties about the outcome. We will therefore have to wait for years to see what practice brings us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mrs Agema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The minister's been asked a lot of questions. We're looking at a 25-minute suspension. That means we'll be back here a little later than 12:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u72	Can't we just link lunch break to it right away, and then go for a 35-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u73	We've been watching that. That seems a very logical proposal, but we have a few points on the agenda of the Chamber that should take place at the scheduled time. That is, for example, the farewell of Mrs Hennis of the VVD. So the proposal is to suspend now and continue in 25 minutes. That'll be 12:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u74	The next item is the plenary debate on the Consumer Care Institutions Act 2018, with new provisions on that participation. I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care to answer first. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked, so I'm gonna try to do it a little bit on a trot. But I do think that I should also try to give the precise answer to the questions, as precisely as they have been asked. And it would also be nice if we really deal with this law, titled "2018," this year. Basically, it's just a very simple bill. Clients' councils have the right to consent to topics that are directly in their sphere of influence, thereby giving them a stronger position vis-à-vis the board. Think of catering, recreational facilities or the social plan in the event of relocation. That's one. A second point is that the funding is anchored. The institution shall be required to make financial resources and facilities available to a client council. A third point is to organise a system of participation through the law and then to leave it fairly free of form. Those are actually the three ingredients of the law. There are three other points to which I would like to make. It is a minimum scheme, so client councils can make other agreements with their driver about extending the powers. Two, that sounds like in all the contributions this morning, is that this is about participation and not the transfer of control. So it's anchored that the director controls, supervises the supervisor and, like a works council, also has a form of participation by a client council. I repeat it to everyone who has said it this morning, the bill might help cultural change a little, in the sense that the conversation about what a client council can do and the input of the people who receive care will be more often because we have a new arrangement. Mr. Chairman. All this can be done much more extensively, but I am simply going to answer your questions now. I will also give an appreciation of the amendments that have been tabled. I'm sure you'd appreciate that. Why did it take so long? I believe that we have had different ideas and legislative proposals in circulation over the past ten or fifteen years. I think that's because, among other things, there are a lot of opinions. That is what I heard this morning: a great deal of room for the client and, on the other hand, little administrative burden and find the right balance. But it took time. That is why I think it is important that we do not keep this proposal waiting indefinitely, but that we discuss it now. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp spoke about the concept of the AMvB. Others have also spoken about this, so it is about the exceptions to the law. I believe that this AMvB can still be presented this autumn. I'd be happy to. Then you can see exactly what exceptions there are. Then we can also talk about target transport. I will therefore have an opinion on whether that should be an exception. So I'd like to show you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u76	There is a question for you from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u77	So that means that there will be another veil, I suppose, when it comes to the general measure of governance, so that we can still see it as a Chamber. So there's gonna be another letter of amendment, I guess. There is some uncertainty as to whether, for example, pharmacists are already excluded when it comes to this law. Is this discussion about who is and who is not taking place at the time when we get the general measure of governance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u78	I think it would be good at least to make that clarification when we discuss the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u79	So that means that no categories are excluded now and that this discussion takes place only when the general measure of governance is being considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u80	That'll be my M.O.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u82	Then there is the point of the criterion of the ten caregivers. Mrs Bergkamp spoke about it. Actually, you've all talked about it. In doing so, it has been considered by the legislator, or in this case by the Ministry, that, if there are ten caregivers in practice, there is often an intermediate layer. Being present with an intermediate layer has been the criterion to choose the number ten. That is the basis of the choice. At the same time it is also a bit arbitrary. I have listened carefully to your contribution. I would also like to hear what is said about this in the second term. But the choice was therefore made for this reason. I would add that other choices are also justifiable. I heard what was said about the FTEs. There are also advantages and disadvantages, as do the criterion of the number of people providing care. After all, if practice grows a little bit, then you keep the client council, but if the number of caregivers working in practice falls, you might end up just below that limit. There are therefore different considerations to be made. What I am doing now in this period is to indicate why the number criterion of ten has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u83	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u84	I think you will come back to that, but do you think that ten-layer criterion is as valid for first-line care as for other forms of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u85	Oh, yeah. Of course, we are seeing more and more group practices where multiple general practitioners and multiple supporters work. I can imagine that in such a general practitioner's practice there could very well be the possibility for a client council. So that number of ten is quite conceivable. By the way, you could also say that Mrs De Vries's argument was that a smaller practice could also include a client council to which you may declare a little less of the rules applicable, if there are not ten but fewer caregivers working in practice. I thought that was a nice idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u86	If I have read the note on the basis of the report correctly, it would actually have been applicable now. In that case, a client council should have been set up. Has there often been a wish in the past that there should be a client council for the first line? Is there such a need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u87	On the side of the patient organisations, this desire is widespread. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u88	Finally, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u89	You say "on the side of the organizations," but the question is: has it also been revealed to the clients and the patients themselves? Do you have any examples of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u90	The number criterion of ten was found in the internet consultation. We have looked at how this is being dealt with. Patient organisations find it very pleasurable if there is also a form of client council in the first line. I can imagine. The other argument is that it needs to be organised effectively with little administrative burden. I can also imagine that very well. So I'm trying to find the right place in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u91	We're all looking for the right center. Several options were considered in the first term of the Chamber. The bill says 10 people. My group has said that perhaps we should go to 10 FTE. Then there are a little more institutions that, because of their small scale, do not have to set up a client council. It's okay, but you don't have to. The example of 50 people has also been mentioned, which is a very big step. I would like the Minister to tell us exactly what his arguments are. He referred to the second term, but I would like to hear it in the first period, so that we can also consider what wisdom is: 10 people, 10 FTE, 50 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u92	It is not the ultimate wisdom, I say to Mrs Dik, through the chairman. I have chosen 10 because I think that even increasingly that first line is no longer made up of solitary working general practitioners, but group household doctors. Then you have to look for a number criterion. That's the way it is. I have chosen 10 people, but 10 FTE is also possible, although I find that difficult, because in practice you can measure that. That's what you get for 10 people, by the way. If we go for 50, then probably a large part of the first line falls out, because there are no 50 people working in such a practice. That's why I didn't choose the 50, I chose the 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u93	This gives a little more clarity. The Minister states that 50 people would be excluded from the first line. In response to a question from colleague Slootweg, the Minister indicated earlier that there is a real need for client councils in the first line. So the ultimate center would be closer to 10 than to 50. I'm really looking for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u94	I don't do cow business here. I have presented a bill, in which I have assumed 10 people, with the consideration I give. It seemed important to me that client councils should also be present in the first line. That's why I made this choice, but I admit it's not something that's very hard. That is why we need to discuss it, and that is why I also referred to the contribution of Members in the second term, because I would like to hear them together to see whether we can come to any good consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u95	However, I would like a little more clarification from the Minister. We're all looking for a workable solution. However, I have not yet heard the Minister on the argument of the first-line organisations about the burden of regulation and the increase in charges. There were other examples. I refer to the housing facilities for the elderly, which are pgb-funded, but also the companies of medical specialists who say: we will soon be obliged to set up a client council by this limit, but then we will be able to get five, six, seven or eight client councils in a hospital. I don't know if that's gonna help the patient in the end. However, that should be the goal. We must also continue to look at the regulatory burden, because that is what this cabinet has committed itself to. He doesn't want the cabinet getting too far. They also want to make agreements with the healthcare professional. It can't be that we're doing nothing about this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u96	I can see that tension very well. I am absolutely not calling for more rules, but I am trying to secure the importance of client councils on a legal basis, in a stronger way than 22 years ago. That is the exercise we stand for. I agree with all Members that this should not lead to additional paperwork, but that should be demonstrated in practice. We take care of a number of things in the law. I have seen amendments that regulate some more in the law. In addition, I believe that a great deal of further agreements can be made through the participation scheme, but we must always bear in mind that they are effective client councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u97	I am still looking into how the Minister is going to solve the problems I have just outlined in the proposals I mentioned. I can imagine him saying: yes, I'm going to solve that in the AMvB. Then we can have the discussion there, but I do not yet feel that the Minister sees the problems in the proposals I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u98	I do not want to move the discussion in the direction of the AMvB, but that is where the exceptions are addressed. We'll discuss that with each other. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned the example of target transport. I certainly have to consider whether that could be an exception. That's why the conversation about the AMvB is important, but I'm not in the mood to separate the whole first line from the AMvB, because then the bill will pass its purpose to my understanding. So I'd like to organize a client council to take care of that first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u99	Just a little tightening up. My request was not: make the target transport an exception category.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u100	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u101	The question was whether we should not organize a little more for that. I would like to add a few words to what my colleagues have said. If one consequence is that each partnership must have a separate client council, then I would also like to know what the Minister's opinion is on this, because that does not seem to me to be very desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u102	I do not think that this is desirable for medical-specialist care either. I don't think each partnership needs its own client council either, but that's the formal side of the matter. I can imagine the other side of the matter as well, namely that clients who sit for a longer period of time with such a partnership need that good conversation and therefore that attention is paid to it. On the one hand the specialist and on the other hand the client to have that good conversation: that seems important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u103	I think it would be very good if the Minister, in his second term, had taken a closer look at this problem, as has already been pointed out. If the Minister also feels that this could be a problem, how are we going to solve it? So let him come up with an appreciation of Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment and the ten FTEs: is that feasible in practice? Then we can decide together as a Chamber what is a good one in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u104	I should like to express my appreciation of the amendments that have been tabled. I do not want to wait until the second term. What does and does not fall under the law, asked Mrs Bergkamp. The Wmcz 2018 will allow AMvB to exclude certain care or categories of institutions from the application of the law. The criteria for exclusion apply to the way the care is provided, e.g. certain military institutions and establishments of a penitentiary nature, and the purpose of the care, which may include medical examinations or blood collection. The third criterion is the relationship between client and institution. That also includes the pharmacy. I indicated in the note following the report that the concept of the AMvB which will limit the scope of the Wmcz 2018 will be sent to your Chamber. I intend to do that next month. Mrs Bergkamp's question is: how does the Minister intend to promote direct participation without compromising participation by client councils? I see direct participation and participation as two complementary issues. In the law, formal co-determination and informal co-determination are side by side. Formal participation comes from the Client Council, with its legal advisory and consent rights, and informal participation is achieved through participation and direct participation, which is mandatory for institutions for long-term stays, but which is of course also desirable in other health care institutions. I therefore see these obligations as reinforcing in relation to each other. I think you can expect a good driver to have an eye for both. "Why do you not give the Client Council the right to consent to the selection and appointment of an independent supporter?" This bill gives the Client Council the right to advise on the selection and appointment of the independent supporter. There wasn't that right of advice. That's new. You could say we've taken some kind of intermediate position with something that wasn't there yet. We do not jump to consent, but choose this middle way. A right of consent has not been chosen. In the internet consultation it appeared that client councils wanted more influence on the question which person became the supporter, but at the same time it appeared that the drivers did not like more influence. I have therefore made a weighting between these two and that has led to this right of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u105	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister decide who his personal assistant is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u107	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u108	Does the Minister decide who his personal assistant is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u109	That's a good question. I'll check with the personal assistant. It was at the front door at some point, and then I thought, "Well, I'll pick it up."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u110	I think you understand where I'm going with this. I think it's kind of a weird duck in the bite to sit somewhere in between and give advice while the clients just have to do it with the independent supporter. They have to work with it and have daily contact with it. Then it's actually a very strange duck in the bite if they don't just choose that person for themselves. I would therefore like to persuade the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u111	I think the supporter will often be chosen in consultation with the client council. I think a good driver does. If the board supporter is not able to work properly with the client council, I also think that the client board does not accept the offer made by the institution to work with that client supporter. But I think it is also possible that this independent supporter not only has tasks as an independent supporter, but also carries out other tasks in the institution, such as administrative tasks and perhaps care-giving tasks. Then it would be illogical to choose here a right of consent for this employee of the institution. So I'm gonna stick with an advisory right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u112	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. The Minister just said that he could very well imagine that the choice of a supporter would take place in consultation between the institution and the client council. He then indicates that if it doesn't turn out to be a click, such a client council can always bring that up afterwards. Now here in the Chamber, I and other colleagues are arguing for a right of consent from the client council. This actually means that the institution makes a proposal and that the Client Council agrees with it. This is also a form of contradiction, which I believe is much more pure than the opposite, which the Minister apparently continues to opt for. I have indicated that such a client council should actually be able to read and write with its supporter. It must have confidence in that supporter and there must also be confidentiality between such a supporter and such a client council. So what is really against giving the Client Council permission to do so, while the institution still makes the proposal and can therefore consider it for itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u113	I think Mr. Kerstens is saying it right. That client council should be able to get out of the way with his supporter, but so should the driver. We are talking about a law that leads to greater participation, but I find it too difficult to give consent here. For example, because that supporter could also be given other tasks, which he does not get from the client council, but from the driver. So I'm gonna stick to the advisory right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u114	One of the most exciting tasks that I believe can be assigned to a supporter of a client council is when there is a conflict or a threatening conflict between the client council and the institution and it may be necessary to go to the committee or perhaps even to the court. In those cases, it seems very important to me that this relationship of trust exists and that this confidentiality exists between that supporter and that client council. That seems to me more important than perhaps there is a link between the supporter and the institution if that supporter also gets other roles, for example, to make a report on this or record the minutes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u115	I honestly don't see it that way. I believe that there is a trust committee for the trust function, perhaps even a national or an ad hoc confidence committee. That supporter must be able to work well on both sides and I think that this law for participation fits well with the advisory right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Kerstens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u117	Shortly after that. The minister says the supporter has to work on both sides. Surely he realizes that in granting advisory rights, it is one of both sides that decides on who will be the supporter, namely the driver?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u118	Yeah, the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u119	Whereas if you really want to work for both sides, you have to give that other side the right to say no to someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u120	I think you'll come a long way with the good conversation and the right to advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u121	I understand it's a compromise. I do not think it is a good compromise and I actually share Mrs Agema's speech. We have tabled an amendment to see if we can arrange otherwise. My question concerns a previous issue which the Minister touched equally side by side. If there are client councils at different locations and a new client council is arriving, it is proposed that all these client councils should find something of that. That seems bureaucratic to me, and I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u122	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u123	Can you ask him again, Mrs. Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u124	Sure. You can't find anything if you don't understand the question. So I'm just trying to outline the situation. There are client councils at different locations. Now it is true that when a new client council comes, other client councils also have a share in the decision-making process. So they're gonna have to like that, too. In other words, a new Client Council can only be added if the other Client Councils think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u125	We seem to be pretending that client councils are a form of young planting. That is not what we are trying to do: we are trying to set up client councils in a clear way. So in the image that's called "there are so many client councils and there's another one" I don't recognize very well. But that is not exactly an answer to Mrs Bergkamp's question either, so I think I will take it and save it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u126	That's fine. Of course, my argument was not aimed at the fact that client councils are just like flowers that come out of the ground and there are many of them. I am more concerned with the decision-making process and how it is now. If there's a new client council, what's the role of those other client councils? Let us not make it a very bureaucratic whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u127	My second conclusion is also that we are not turning it into an administrative ram. But if you want to know what the procedure is, I'm gonna take a closer look at it and I'm not gonna do any guesswork. This is a bit in line with your next question: is there a limit to having multiple client councils? No, there isn't. The institution has an obligation to set up a client council in long-term care and home care. The clients have to ask for it. If there are multiple locations or multiple client groups, this may give rise to multiple client councils. But there is no choice for decentralised councils per subject. Because then you could get a lot of things side by side. So that's where the limitation was sought. How do you view the timely and understandable question of opinion, Mrs Bergkamp asks me? The Client Council must, of course, receive the information early enough to be able to form a good picture and that information must also be understandable. If, for example, there are people with intellectual disabilities on the client board, then the information must also be appropriate, I believe. That supporter can play another part in that. How do I think this will work in practice? I hope that it will remain non-formative for a very long time, but if it does not come out, I think it will be a part of the co-determination system. I will mention this participation scheme a number of times in the course of the discussion, because I expect that there will be much, so-called, tailor-made work between institutions and client council. Then there is the question of how the client council can be involved early. I also think that the right conversation between the driver and the client council is best. If this is necessary, then one will, over time, make agreements on the delivery of documents and the way in which information is provided. Mrs Bergkamp spoke about the issue of culture. Are we here with this arrangement? No, of course there's a lot more to be done. Let us be honest: the focus on customer participation is not only a step in the right direction, but there is really much more to be said about this. I think it would be helpful to have a good conversation. I also think that such a subject as client participation in the accreditation of supervisors and administrators in care is much more acute than it was a few years ago. The theme has also become much more prominent in the Health Governance Code, which was renewed last year. That's all the fixation of the subject. I repeat it to everyone: we will really have to have the good conversation for a long time, including under the law, before we can say that the change in culture has taken place. At the same time, we cannot enforce it by law. It has been asked whether the Supervisory Board should consult with the Client Board. I'm glad there's some discussion between the Supervisory Board and the Client Council every now and then. As far as I am concerned, they could regulate this in the participation system, but it could also be done in a different way. Finally, Mrs Bergkamp's question: why only consultative rights if the basis of an institution changes? I'd say not just. It is a good thing that advice is requested for this and an advisory right is given to the client council, because it is a major change in the organisation of care provision. It is therefore a contribution to the debate and a contribution to the driver. That seems sufficiently far-reaching to me. I would like to dwell on the amendments tabled by the D66 Group. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 10 stating that there should be a right of consent for that independent supporter. I've shown that I can't agree with that. I therefore advise against this amendment. Another amendment refers to consultation once a year between the supervisory body and the client council. At the risk of having a discussion there about the administrative burden, one could say that it is useful that this consultation should take place. The fact that we write that down in the law is not a problem at all. So I'll leave the verdict on this amendment to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u128	For the record, that is the amendment to item No. 11 member of Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u129	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mr Hijink's speech. First about the no-unless, yes-mits. I guess I didn't make that very clear. In short, the bill requires long-term care and home care institutions to set up a decentralised client council. The institution only has to do this if a group of clients so requests. Actually, I think that makes a lot of sense. There must be a need to do that. So if clients report and say they want to set up a decentralised client council, that's what needs to be done. If the clients do not need it, then I see no reason for having to set up such a decentralised council. Clients can easily rely on the law in a reasonable request. They can say, for example, that we are at a separate location, so we want to decide on matters that are at this location. The institution must therefore regulate it and it must be properly requested. That is the provision, and I believe it is unchanged. The Internet consultation may have chosen the "no, unless," but as far as I am concerned this is and will remain the provision. If it is provided by the group of clients, the institution is obliged to honour that request on reasonable grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u130	In my opinion, the point is precisely that other spokesmen have also appointed....................................................................................................................... That should be the starting point, but that is not what is currently in the law. The law now states that it only happens at the request of a client council. That's a subtle difference, but it's an important difference. It is based on the basic attitude, on which people can rely. For me, that difference is very crucial and should be included in the law: there is a client council, unless the clients indicate that they do not need it. That is a crucial difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u131	I have argued that, if the clients need to set up a decentralised client council, they can ask the institution to do so, that this request should also be honoured and that this can also be justified and brought into line with the law. But if there is no such need, then we do not have to organise it. We also need to be a little practical, I suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u132	Very good. Be a little practical. And you do that by setting it up as an automatism: there is a client council at location level, unless it is rejected by the clients present. It goes a little deeper than just pragmatism. It's about giving your clients the right to co-determination and that's why they don't have to ask. No, they have that automatically, unless the clients jointly decide not to use it in good consultation. That is a crucial difference. It is a change that has been included in the legislative proposal and, as far as we are concerned, it needs to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u133	I share Mr Hijink's view that participation is a right. That's what we're trying to anchor in this law. But how to arrive at such a decentralised client council... Then there must be a need. It can be shape-free. The group of clients reported to the institution board; then the institution board must honour that request and then one cannot simply deviate from it. I think that's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u134	Finally and briefly, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u135	I just don't understand why the Minister is making such a big deal about this. It's very clear and very clear to everyone, isn't it? At the time you live in an institution, you have the opportunity to join a client council, unless you decide as a client not to. That's a very clear starting point, isn't it? For the people who live there, it is much more pleasant and much nicer than having to start organizing themselves first and then knocking on the door at the institution with the question of whether they can please set up a client council? That is a step backwards, while I think we are taking steps forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, I'm not. I can very well imagine that it is felt that the central client council is now talking about the decentralised client council, which is doing a very good job and that it is said that their interests are being properly taken care of. If the social aspects, the nutrition and all that kind of thing that is close to the client's life are well secured and discussed in the central client council and there is no need, then we do not have to settle that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u137	I imagine Members would like to ask about this, but I suggest that we do not all ask the same question. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u138	That is a valid point, Mr President. I have read in the documents that the Minister also considers it very important that participation is organised locally, close to clients. My question is: why the change from 'yes, unless' to 'no, unless'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u139	I think it's "yes, unless" already, and it's gonna stay that way. I can't see it any other way. This possibility exists and continues to exist for a group of patients to set up a decentralised client council. If there is no such need, for example because the Central Council does all its work well, then we do not need to call on it. But if there is such a need, the board of the institution was contacted. That seems to me to be a very clear argument. You can also choose a different line of reasoning, but this seems to me to be a clear reasoning, and also quite poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u140	I don't think it's a "yes, unless." It was, but it's not anymore. The amendment tabled by me and a number of other Members of Parliament will fix that. If the Minister says that he also attaches 'yes, unless', I hope he embraces that amendment. An additional point, which I also repair in my amendment, is that if there is to be a second or umpteenth client council, the participation regime must be adapted. So all the client councils that are already there must agree to that. Maybe they won't. In my view, this law has not yet given sufficient thought to this. This is yet another blockage to really organise this participation locally. I would like to ask a response from the Minister, or perhaps later on in the appreciation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u141	I'll do that in a minute at the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u142	So that comes with the appreciation. Mr. Kerstens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have indicated in my contribution that the Minister himself, in his explanatory statement, put forward the best arguments for giving this participation a local form. I understand, therefore, that he is now having a bit of a problem in bringing a different point of view to the House. I have also indicated that I find it strange that, if you use participation as close to people as possible as a starting point, I do not automatically assume participation, especially with these 'vulnerable people', a term that this minister himself uses in his explanatory statement. I have also indicated that he not only raises a threshold, but also a vague criterion in my view. Now clients and caregivers have to gather their strength and get a representative part of the people behind them in order to actually shape their right to automatic justice. I asked: what is "representative"? Is that 10%? Should it be 51%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u144	Your question is clear, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u145	Why is it so complicated when it can be much simpler?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u146	I very much agree with that: let's keep it a bit simple. So when a group of clients requests it, one can come to such a decentralised client council. There must be a need for this. If that need isn't there, you don't have to set it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u147	With all due respect, but "if a group of patients asks for it, there could be such a local client council," I find a little vague. How big is this group supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u148	Well, a reasonable group. You must have something to talk about, so it shouldn't be one or two people. So a group of people who have a heart for the cause and think it's important to set up such a decentralised council. I deliberately didn't mention a number, because I didn't think that was wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr. Kerstens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u150	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It turned out in the Chamber that you can often differ on matters. Can the Minister imagine that a director of an institution looks very differently at what a reasonable group is than that group itself, and that this is the subject of discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u151	No, because if I were part of such a group, I'd have the Wmcz 2018 under my arm, take it and say, "Look at this. I have this right in this institution for long-term care or home care. So you're gonna have to motivate me, a targeted decentralised client council, why you don't want to do that. I have a right to be on my side. There is a need, because look: I am here and I stand before you."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u152	With all due respect, that's not what the law says. The law says a "representative" part. So not a group, but a representative part has to make the request. The question then is when is this representativeness going to be? That is what it is all about, not so much the question of whether someone has the law behind them. You can't get the law behind you until you just make sure there's that co-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u153	Nor can that driver refer to the law and say: you stand before me with five of you and the law says that there must be ten people. So you need to have a good talk about that. We really do miss the fact that this driver will also be attached, and that in recent years is increasingly doing so, to good contact with the delegation of the clients. So I'm not as worried as the speaker from just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u155	Let's ask you another question. Mr Hijink asked if I share the view that the Client Council should take part in the decision on the appointment of directors and supervisors. No, I don't share that. The Client Council does have a binding right of nomination for one member of the Supervisory Board. That's the deal. I think that's enough. I believe that the appointment of directors and supervisors is elsewhere. I don't think there should be a co-decision for the Client Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u156	That leads to a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u157	This is really a crucial part. We all want participation to mean something, that you sit there not only to give an opinion for once, but also that you have a say in crucial areas of care, of the future of the institution, participation and participation, and finally can take part in decisions. If we want our clients to use it, this participation must, of course, be something. As far as I am concerned, this is one of the elements that goes with it. If there is evidence for a client council that there is a risk of a director or a supervisor who has left a trail of destruction with other organisations in the past, they should be able to say: no longer, this is not in the interests of the clients and the institution; we should block it. I don't understand why the Minister doesn't want to go along with that. If you consider participation to be important, you must also have that competence on crucial issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u158	I would like to refer specifically to the right of participation, with a binding nomination for one member of the Supervisory Board. I believe that an institution has much more to consider. Think of the personnel policy, the financial health of the company, the continuity of the institution and you name it. Controls and supervisory boards must have sufficient room to do so with people they consider most appropriate to weigh up those interests. They can also be called upon, because they are the ultimate directors, with the board of directors on the one hand and the supervisory board on the other. That's why I don't want to move on right now when it comes to the role of the Client Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u159	How many examples do we still have to see of drivers who are going to merge, who are going to invest in real estate projects, who are calling for mergers in hospital care? These are all decisions that are not in the interests of patients, of clients, and are born of grandeur's delusion. Everywhere in the care, we've seen huge fiascos, from Meavita to Careyn. The only person who has a real interest in the future of the institution is the one who depends on the care provided. That's the clients and the patients. If you want to avoid that kind of fiasco, doesn't it make sense for you to make sure those people get a decisive vote? 'Cause otherwise you're on that client board, but you've got nothing to say at all when there's a threat of drivers coming in that you have absolutely no confidence in. That's a real shame, if you're working on this law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u160	The Minister considers that this law is designed to give consent to subjects that affect the client's immediate sphere of influence. Think of the catering, the recreational facilities, the furnishing of areas where care is provided and the mental care. But the law is not designed to give consent to matters relating to the management of the organisation. So we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Hijink, I'm asking you, as well as the others, to do the interruptions in two. We're also running into a time problem. And my experience is that you ask the same question again. I'll give you the opportunity now, but then we'll do it in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u162	I think it is really contempt for the group of people for which we are now treating this law, namely the clients and the patients. It's really disdainful. The Minister is talking about catering, that this is something you should be able to decide with. Because yes, good food, you have to be able to decide. But whether the institution where you live for life is going to be taken over by a real estate investor or to merge with another institution, or whether you're being forced to move to another institution when you don't want to, the minister says: no, that doesn't affect the privacy of the client and the patient. That's contempt for the group we're talking about right now, isn't it? It's not about catering alone. It is precisely those very crucial decisions about the future of human lives that are at stake. And that's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u163	I make a sharp distinction as to the control of the company that is invested in the board of directors and the supervisory board of that institution. Driver and supervisory board should also be able to play their role in the areas for which they have the tasks and responsibility and on which they are also taken into account. In addition, there is a participation regime, which we are discussing here today. We must look for the appropriate measure and I believe that an issue such as a right of consent to RP and RP does not belong in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u164	I would like to continue with this, however, because I find it disappointing that the Minister seems to close his eyes to the consequences of no direct participation of clients in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. Because they don't have them now, you see that certain interests, including those of directors, prevail over the interests of clients. So just adding the perspective of those clients is extremely valuable and should therefore really be taken seriously, even when it comes to consenting to those appointments. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u165	Well, I've already tried to do that three times in other words. The role of the directors is to manage the company, taking into account all the interests involved. This includes the client interest, but also the importance of the finances and the importance of the continuity of care in the institution. So that's a wide range of considerations. Again, that includes the client interest, but it is one of the interests. We really need to make a clear law, otherwise it will get in our way in the future. This is not a law on control but a law on participation and on a number of issues that directly affect clients' privacy, which I try to "contain."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mrs Ellemeet in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u167	We see, on the contrary, that these clients' interests are not always sufficiently taken into account and that it is therefore so very important to give them a voice and really take them seriously, because this also has a direct impact on the care they receive, on whether a merger is taking place or not and on whether more real estate is being purchased or not. These are questions that affect the clients directly. We see too often, not always but too often, that other interests prevail among drivers. I am in favour of the client's perspective as a starting point for care, but it is also important to be able to correct where it is needed and that would be very valuable here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u168	We're talking here today about rights for clients and client councils. There are also debates in this Chamber about the role of the director and the supervisory board. We really need to consider them side by side. I believe that we should make a clear distinction between control and participation. I also believe that it is necessary to define the tasks for which the client council is responsible, and that is not, as far as I am concerned, for the appointment of directors and supervisors. I have tried to say in four kinds of words that I am referring to Mr Hijink's amendment to item No. 8 detachment. Then the point of the confidant. Why should institutions not join a national trust committee? Firstly, an institution must have a confidence committee. That doesn't have to be, but it could be the national committee. It is not unusual for an ad hoc trust committee to be set up for a particular case, for the involvement of certain domes or for interests that play in a particular region in the country. So there's a nationwide trust committee. He himself says: we do not have to be the only trust committee working nationally. As far as we are concerned, as the national confidence committee says, it is about the support that should be given to people to come to a confidence committee. Sometimes that can be the national confidence committee, which is fine, but if we want to make an ad hoc assessment, then that possibility must exist. That reasoning of the national confidence committee sounded very plausible to me. That is why the regulation is before us as I have discussed it. Why won't Wmcz 2018 apply to Wmo settings? That was a question from Mr Hijink but also from Mr Slootweg. There is still a point of view to be taken together with Mr De Jonge. I expect to be able to send that to you in the autumn. Mr Hijink's point about the Council of State's criticism of the bill: that this bill may not be necessary and that a cultural change is either sufficient or should take place first. I believe that investing those rights of clients, of client councils, is an important issue. Not only did I understand that myself, but I also understood that from the tradition of my predecessor and I hear it again today. You consider the subject of participation for customer councils of healthcare institutions to be important. I therefore think that it is too little to rely on only a change in culture. I think the clients could use a little support. This law can provide such support. Finally, Mr Hijink's question on a guide to client councils. Do clients or family oversee the new law? Isn't a manual an idea? I think that once the porridge has been deposited, if I may put it that way, so if the bill has become law, it should be examined in consultation with domes how best to regulate communication on this issue. So I don't think the idea of a manual is that crazy. In due course, I'd like to discuss that with the client councils' domes. Mr. Chairman. Let me take a look at Mr Hijink's amendment. By the way, there are several of them. The amendment in part No. 12 regulates "the establishment of a client council per location in multi-site healthcare organisations." The bill says clients have to ask for it. With this amendment, the institutions must regulate it and assess how clients are in it. So that's a different order. I hold on to my own reasoning. I would like to keep the need for such a decentralised council central, in the centre, so the client must ask for it with the institution board. That is why I reject this amendment. There is also the amendment to point No. 13. That also belongs to Mr Hijink. It proposes to organise the right of assent for topics such as objective, mergers and conversions. I think that this is important, but decisions on this need to be taken by the board of directors on a much broader basis. That is quite in line with the discussion we have just had. I would advise against this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third speaker, Mrs Dik-Faber. How is it ensured that client councils actually base their views on the wishes and opinions of the grassroots? In the legislative proposal there, I refer to the fact that a number of provisions have been introduced to maintain that good contact between the client council and the grassroots. The Client Council should involve the results of participation in its work, so if participation produces something, client councils should work with it and involve it in their work. The institution shall assist the Client Council in identifying client wishes and opinions. So that's the other side. Then there is the question: where can clients go if they are not heard or if I have understood correctly if they are opposed? A client council shall represent the common interests of the clients. Their rights and powers are aimed at this. If clients don't feel heard by the client council, they have different options. A client can talk to the driver and the driver can see where the shoe is wringing. Clients who consider that they are not sufficiently heard by the central client council may ask the institution to set up a decentralised client council in the context of long-term care and home care. And if it really gets too gratuitous for the clients, they can file a request for dissolution of the client council with the trust committee. There are therefore a number of possibilities to give the client a voice in relation to the client council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u169	I certainly find this valuable information, because I hadn't looked at it that way. The Minister states that a client also has a position. My question was: if a client council, i.e. the representation of clients, is obstructed by, for example, the board or if the client council does not feel heard, where can it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u170	The answer to that question lies further in the pile, but I can also answer that question now. Then you can go to the trust committee. The bill provides that you can still go to court after the trust committee. You asked this morning: could this perhaps be a little more effective than in those three steps of the judge, namely canton judge, court, Supreme Court? Can you do that in the Enterprise Room? I'd like to take a serious look at that idea. I would like to see whether that is not a shorter blow which leads to the same result. So I see at least those two possibilities: the way to the confidence committee and the way to the judge. In this context, the question of which judge should be the judge is still at issue. I have already answered the questions raised by the previous speaker about the co-existence of participation and the client council, i.e. the formal aspect of participation. "Does the Minister see the possibility of strengthening cooperation between works councils and client councils?" I can see that space. I have already said that I see this bill as a basic regulation. The minimum is set. Up there, institutions and client councils can arrange whatever they want, to put it that way. They can do that in the participation scheme. So there could be something in there about the cooperation between the or on the one hand and the client council on the other. To what extent is it possible for local client councils and institutions to deviate from proposed legal provisions? Here I repeat that the legislative proposal provides the minimum of what the institution must comply with. Local client councils keep in the bill possibilities to deviate. For example, if there is a decentralised or local client council, the relationship between central and decentralised council is defined in the participation scheme. So there has to be a co-determination system, which is laid down in the law, but the implementation of that co-determination system is free. Then there is a question from the Christian Union about the pgb-parent initiatives. Is that a category that can be excluded from this law? I will return to the AMvB which I present in October. The same applies to the medical-specialist company. I intend to make an exception in the AMvB. So that comes in October. The next question I thought was a good one: can the bill, according to the Minister, count on sufficient support? Of course, I wrote down: yes. But honesty requires us to say that we have been in contact with a great many parties. On the one hand, the client boards domes, on the other hand, the administrative institutions. I think we are presenting a good balance here, which I offer to you, because I think we should have the discussion on this. But I think a balance has been found, with the emphasis on strengthening the law of the client and the client council in the care institutions. So yes, I see sufficient support. The legislative proposal does not contain an obligation on a minimum number of consultations between the institution and the client council. I would also like to make use of this co-determination system here. Please let parties take care of that in the field themselves. Four times a year or six times a year: let them look at it in practice. There is room for customization, but this seems to be mainly about when or not a client council is needed. Is there any more customization possible? Indeed, participation in long-term care is regulated, but the form of participation is free of form. So either that happens with a survey or with a coffee morning or with a community center call or a care evening or a family council: that can have a lot of appearances. In addition, curative care institutions can organise participation if they wish. It is a tailor-made way to organise quick and broad wishes for clients. In the direction of Mrs Dik, I say that the participation regime is the place to make further arrangements between the institution and the client council. Is it not good to have a mandatory stand-of-business consultation at least once a year? Wasn't that also the subject of an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u171	That was also Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. You left the judgment to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u172	That's it. I have now gone into the ten FTE and ten people, Mr President. I would like to take a look at the amendments tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber. One is about the need to set up a decentralised client council, one client council per location is the scope of the amendment to item No. 16. As I said earlier in the direction of Mr Hijink, the law says that clients should ask for it. With this amendment, if I read it correctly, institutions must regulate it and examine how clients are in it. I don't choose that. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. I come to Mr Slootweg's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u173	Before you go any further, Mrs Dik-Faber has made a comment, although this has already been changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u174	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. There has been a sufficient exchange with Mr Hijink. But there is another element in this amendment, namely that when a client council is set up, the participation regime needs to be adapted. The new Client Council must also have powers. Adjusting the participation regime is done by the existing Client Council. So the situation may arise that the Client Council that is already there does not want the new Client Board to get there and block it. It's just not solved in the law. So my amendment has two components. The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u175	Sorry. I have answered the first question and the other question is actually a bit that of Mrs Bergkamp. I have spoken so long that I can answer that. Because you are right: if a representative group of clients asks for this, the institution board will cooperate in order to reach such a new client council. The first step is then to adapt the participation regime to the arrival of that new client council. The relevant client councils, old and new, have a right of consent and there may be a blockage in that. If one does not come out, one goes to the confidence committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mrs. Thick, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yeah, rounding it up. My amendment has a component that addresses this problem a little bit more. Maybe the Minister would like to take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u178	I just didn't recommend it, so I'd like to turn it around. I have also just provided a justification for setting up decentralised client councils. If there's anything left to respond to, I'd like to hear it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u179	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u180	I come to Mr Slootweg's contribution. What is the need to apply Wmcz to primary care? I've already gone into that. Mr Slootweg said that in 2014 30% had no client council. "Can the Minister state what the current position is?" I don't have a better number than that 30%. I honestly don't think it's changed a lot, but that's more of a gut feeling than wisdom. How many clients are those 30%? I don't have any figures on that either. I have to keep the answer to that. How should it be ensured that clients themselves and not their representatives are on the client council? I can also give you a long answer, but the shorter answer is: you can agree to that in the participation scheme. You can see: should it be more the client and should it be less caregivers or acquaintances of clients? Those choices can be made in the participation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u181	In this participation scheme, you could also make the agreement that you offer support to the client, so that the client can represent himself as best as possible. Is that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u182	The question was about: should it be the client himself or a client's representative? Now you're talking about support. Suppose someone with a mental disability sometimes wants to bring someone along. You can make very good agreements about this in the participation system, in the most practical and paperless way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u183	I am concerned with the question: where are we going to record this? How can you do that? Does the Minister actually say that you should use the co-determination system as a vehicle to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u184	That's what it's meant to be. There is a co-determination scheme, but the content of that scheme should be discussed by the institution and the client council, with a few agreements already provided for in the law. We are talking about funding: training costs, payment of independent support, use of facilities. You can fill all that in more detail in the participation scheme. Then I actually answered the question as to how clients can receive support. Training, facilities, the conference room, the copier. I believe that this legal guarantee will enable the client council to be better equipped with such facilities than is currently the case. The same applies to the arrival of the independent supporter. Of course, that helps a little. It also applies to the costs of legal proceedings. What incentives are there for a care institution to choose to have a client take a position on the client's board instead of a client's representative? That too is a question that belongs to the discussion of the participation regime. In the meantime, we have already talked about central and decentralised. Then there is the matter of the National Commission of Trusters. Could there be more than one? I argued that there could be more than one. Then there is the issue of the non-binding nature of the decision of a trust committee. An appeal to civil courts has been deliberately chosen on the basis of the protection provided for in the Constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights. You'll say we had it 20 years ago, right? However, in the case law that has formed in this respect, the emphasis is increasingly placed on the independent course to the court rather than the confidence committee as a burden resort. So that's why that opening was offered to the judge. I have heard your speech and that of others very well. In it it was said: should it go to the canton court or can it go to the Entrepreneur's Chamber? I'd like to take a look at that. Perhaps I should stop by the Court of Justice and ask for advice. I'm just gonna find some space over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u185	For me, the objective of this binding element is indeed to minimise legal procedures. However, it also has another element for me. The other element is that if such a decision is binding, it is up to the board to explain why a decision is being deviated from, especially at the time when the client council is agreed. At the moment when the advice is not binding, I feel it is much easier for a board to ignore such advice. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u186	That is what I should be discussing again with the National Commission of Trusters. I think that, together with the institution, client councils want them to do their bit themselves, and that therefore, no progress is made towards the confidence committee at all. That is also my view: the confidence committee will not be overflowing with business. Keep it that way, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u187	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr. Chairman. The Council of State takes the view that primary care providers are not obliged to set up a client council. I said in the proposal 'yes, do so' because of the importance of that first line; greater group practices, sometimes a management intermediate layer, but from a certain size of that first-line organisation. Then the point of a separate client council for a particular subject. That's not what I'm here for. The choice has been made differently: decentralised client councils in long-term care and home care in case of difference in location or target group, but not for difference in subject matter. This will prevent it from becoming a whole forest of client councils. We have now discussed the issue of ten or more caregivers as a criterion for setting up client councils in detail. Mr Slootweg has asked how often the court has been asked to set up a client council. I don't have those numbers. Does the law allow small first-line organisations to organise customer control, for example through information evenings, surveys and questionnaires? Oh, yeah. You must regard the law as a minimum regulation. Besides, something can happen. So there is certainly room to organize surveys or information evenings. I did not think I had any amendments left to Mr Slootweg's speech. I come to Mr Stoffer's contribution. In response to Mr Slootweg's speech, I have now touched on the issue of the binding nature of the decisions of the Committee on Trust and the progress towards civil justice. It was not intended to set up a client council in the first line. I have now gone into that point too. The SGP is considering an amendment to exclude the first line of the bill. I believe that we should not do that, but use a number criterion. It may also be important for clients using the GP to be part of a client council. Then the point of the line pressure. Mr. Stoffer really made a point of that. I think that's a point, too. We will always have to look for keeping the number of rules limited. But in the balance between doing nothing, not organizing a new law, or doing anything to strengthen the client's right, I have chosen here to strengthen the client's right. With the inclusion of a certain number criterion, one could say that no rules are added below that limit and the administrative burden is not increased. It's like wiggling and weighing in here. I certainly do not want to wash away that point of administrative burden. We have talked about the 10 and 50. About the role of the Entrepreneurship Room, I said I'd like to look into it. Then there are the three agencies. A question from Mr Slootweg and also from you was whether it is not a little much of a good thing to have the confidence committee, the canton judge, the court and the Supreme Court. Yeah, maybe. It is the usual civil justice we know in the Netherlands. If the alternative of that Entrepreneurship Chamber is appropriate, so could it. Let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u189	Perhaps you could go straight to the amendment on item No. 9 by Mr Stoffer, for that is the subject of the Enterprise Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is where the Stevens are already used and the choice of the bourgeois judge, from the canton court, is already made to the Entrepreneur's Chamber. I am not in favour of that, because the amendment has made the choice and I am not yet there. I would like to take a closer look at these two side by side, perhaps ask the Council for justice and give it some thought. With this caution, I would like to discourage that amendment, because I think I have to look at it myself and listen to you in the second term as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u191	That, of course, leads to a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think it is very nice that the Minister wants to look at alternatives to those four legal steps that should be taken. But if this goes on like this now, you say that you are dissuading the amendment, which means that it is in the law: everything is being rigged up. If you do that later, I feel that you are going to make it, and we are going to find ourselves in a situation that is being rigged up first, which needs to be reversed afterwards. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u193	I will have to find a practical way of doing this, because the choice contained in the amendment is not the canton judge but the Enterprise Chamber. I want to look at these two possibilities side by side. I want to hear this Chamber again about this in the second term. If that leads to the understanding, including your Chamber, that we need to put the corridor to the canton court and the Enterprise Chamber side by side to see which of the two is best, then in the end I may have to amend the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u194	We will, of course, come back to that in the second term. But what we want to avoid is that we immediately have a lot of gearing up in the field and then have to turn everything back. I have not yet been told by the Minister whether he wants to prevent it or whether he will let it happen first and then get it fixed. If you do, I think you're sending the wrong signal to society. Then you let a lot happen first and then it has to be repaired again. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u195	No, I agree. I am looking for a practical approach, but I would like to think through the question raised here this morning. I don't want to rig up everything and then correct it. I'd hate to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u196	I am pleased with the latter, Mr President. We will return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u197	For the sake of time, I would now like to move on to Mrs Ellemeet's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u198	Before you do that: if it is right, there is another amendment tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Staaij, namely that in part No. 17. Do you have him by hand, or do you want to be there later...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u199	That amendment was later added to my pile. Excuse me, but I'd like to take a quick look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u200	That's okay, you'll come back to that later. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u201	Doing two things at once doesn't make me very good. I come to the questions put by Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Shouldn't clients have a say in important decisions, such as mergers? I think I've answered that question before. Why central participation? The starting point must be really local. We have touched on this point: client councils can also be set up locally in long-term care if there is a need for it. So I don't see central participation as a starting point. In any case, there is central participation, there is long-term care and home care and, if needed, the establishment of a decentralised client council can be achieved. Mr. Chairman. That is in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet. I'm doing it a little short now, because a lot of topics have already been discussed. I have a number of questions from the VVD Group. Client boards should include members who have a direct relationship with clients and patients. I think I have given sufficient consideration to that point. How is it prevented that client councils become professional chat clubs? I think client councils should be representative of clients. You really should take care of that in setting up such a co-determination regulation. That's the place to make sure it's not gonna be a chat house. Then the point from 10 to 50 employees. In doing so, we have stopped for a long time. Then a reaction to the rule pressure. Yes, you have heard me wrestle a bit in Mr Stoffer's speech with this question. I believe that by adding rules there is an irrevocable risk of an increase in the regulatory burden, including with the participation arrangements. While I speak it out, I do note that I think local customization is very important, but I can also imagine that this will lead to additional paper. When people say in practice that they do not want more paper, but rather a well-organised patient participation, I say that these two must go hand in hand: increasing patient participation and reducing administrative burdens. How does the procedure for lifting a client council work if an institution is smaller than ten employees? The institution can then take the decision to withdraw and let the client council know. I think it's okay to give him a mid-term stand. We need to see if we can learn from this after two and a half years. I have now gone into the matter of the short court or business chamber procedure. Mrs De Vries spoke about the advisory right of the supervisor. There must be room for the driver to conduct personnel policy. I'll repeat that to her. Therefore, there is no right of consent to the supervisor, but an advisory right to the supervisor, insofar as it is people who provide care. Then I go to the point that the criterion for derogating from a negative opinion would be stricter. I assume the VVD refers to the trust committee test when the client council does not agree to a decision. Is that tighter? Yes. However, it is being examined: firstly, for serious business, corporate social or business organizational reasons, and secondly, for the question of whether that non-conformity is unreasonable. So it is indeed a stricter criterion, but on good grounds, I think. Then I discuss the choice for the nationwide...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u202	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u203	With my question I wanted to know in particular whether there are good reasons for care, rather than just business-economic, corporate social et cetera. Because I think they are also very important for a care institution, and they do not really seem to be valid reasons to deviate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u204	As far as that doesn't extend to the... I do think you're right. This has been chosen because in case of negative advice from the board there will often be business economic or corporate social reasons. In addition, there is the reasonableness criterion; there could still be a care element in that, but that is not explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u205	However, I would consider it important, as this is also part of the legal history of the case, that the Minister also states whether, for example, security is also covered by those unreasonable or reasonable matters. This also applies, for example, to the quality of care. These are, after all, important aspects that are also crucial for the patient and the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u206	In the second term, I will ensure that I have been prepared for an answer to this suggestion by Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u207	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u208	I replied to the question as to why a national trust committee was not chosen. On the part of Mrs De Vries and Mrs Bergkamp, the amendment to item No. 14 submitted. The aim of the amendment is to specify more specifically that client councils should be in contact with the grassroots and that the institution should help in this respect. I have no objection to that, so I leave the assessment of this amendment to your Chamber. Then there is the Aukje de Vries and others amendment. in piece No. 15. If I read that correctly, the aim is to encourage small institutions, i.e. those with less than 10 clients, to set up a client council. That seems to me to be a good thing, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide on this amendment. These were the amendments to Parts Nos. 14 and 15. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Kerstens' speech. The Client Council should be able to decide for itself who it is to be assisted by. I do think that freedom of choice is important, all within reasonable limits. I can imagine that these reasonable limits will be incorporated into the participation system. Then the point of supervision of the IGJ versus the canton court. How will the IGJ watch or act? Is there money and are there people available? The IGJ does not replace the dispute resolution. The dispute settlement remains with the court, whichever one we choose. The IGJ supervises compliance with the obligations provided by the law. The IGJ shall take action in the event that an institution does not wish to fulfil obligations. The IGJ has several means, including a penalty charge. Honestly, I also think it's a good practice with public oversight by the IGJ. I think it is effective to encourage institutions to comply with legal obligations. Besides, I'm gonna sit down with the inspection for a while. I think that once the law is the law, there must also be something of an ingrowth model, a habit of the new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u209	I understand that the role of the inspection is not to sit all the way on the bench of the judge, but to focus on whether the law is being complied with. The Minister just repeated a number of things that the inspection has in her toolbox if she could see that it is not entirely the case that the law is being complied with. The Minister also mentions them in the explanatory memorandum. But there is also talk of an inspection which is going to make it clear to us how it is really going to shape that supervision. I'm curious about that. When it comes to compliance with the law, the inspection does indeed take the place of the judge. I think it is important for us to know how this is going to be done, where priorities are set, whether there is a lot of human resources allocated to it, whether there is monitoring, whether there is sharing with the Chamber at regular intervals, whether there are follow-up actions and so on. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u210	Our debate has already started at 10.15 a.m., so I see that we will not be able to reach the second deadline this afternoon. I think it is very good that I should take this time to discuss this with the inspection and to inform the Chamber in writing before the second deadline begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u211	The chairman will discuss when we're going to do the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u212	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u213	But if we do do do the second time at a later date, I can live with the Minister's suggestion that the Chamber should still be entrusted with the details of what is going to happen. It's very important to all of us to know what the inspection is going to check for and how she's going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u214	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions from Mr Kerstens. With regard to long-term stays, a decentralised client council is needed at each location. I have argued earlier that this may be the case if that need is expressed. We have discussed the binding decision of the trusted people in detail. Then there are the exceptions to the law, the AMvB and the pgb parent initiatives. We save those two themes for the discussion of the AMvB that is being made. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Agema's speech, a few questions that have already been asked by others. Why should general practitioners and the first line be included in the bill? More and more attention is being paid to the first line and more capacity is going on. There is often a long-term relationship between the patient and the general practitioner. Group practices are more and more rule rather than exception. I think it is very logical, then, to include the first line in this legislative proposal from a certain size. We have discussed the issue of independent support and the right of assent. As far as unnecessary judicialisation is concerned, we have, quite frankly, tried in the legislative proposal to limit ourselves to the minimum. The law is also a minimum regulation. I therefore expect that there will be no additional burden. I think I also have Actal's advice on this. I still have the amendment to item No. 17 down, but I haven't read that yet. If you ask me to make a judgment, I will therefore need, for a moment, two minutes, a suspension to read the amendment. Then I can give you an opinion on that, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u215	I propose that we do so in order to give you the opportunity to do so. I would like to take a look at my fellow Members right away, because we have the opportunity to continue here until 2.30 p.m. in principle. So we can also choose to do at least the second term on the part of the Chamber, because I do not know whether we will get out if the Minister still has to give answers or if we will still have to suspend for lunch. The proposal is therefore to continue at least with the second term on the part of the Chamber, unless there are other views, and I would be glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u216	I find it very complicated when we do the second term and the Minister does not answer. Next time, it'll be a really weird debate. It would be my preference to schedule it fairly quickly. I do not know what room there is for that, but I would say: let us do the second term in total later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u217	If we stop now after the first term and plan the second term at another time, it will be at least after the General Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u218	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u219	That's a very stretchy concept. Is that a week after the General Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u220	Yeah, right after that; as soon as possible after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u221	Or can it also be on the Thursday between the General Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u222	It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u223	No, you can't. After the General Reviews, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u224	We can very well agree to move the total second term back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u226	That's how we're gonna do it. The Minister is now coming up with a response to the amendment to item No. 17 by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u227	I need an explanation from the authors. The operative part proposes that the law should not apply to an institution where clients never reside, unless the institution normally provides care to more than 25 natural persons. Is it the intention of the amendment to ensure that we do not have to set up a client council for the first line if there are fewer than 25 natural persons working?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u228	Mr. Stoffer, an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u229	The answer is short: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u230	Then I would advise against that amendment. I made a different choice in the proposal. In it the proposal was: 10. In the case of a number of 25 for general practitioners, I am afraid that most of the primary care will not be covered by the law, which means that there will be no client council. That seems undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u231	The answer is clear to me. I can say a lot more, but I think enough has already been done. So let's leave it at that. We'll come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u232	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for replying in the first term. We came here at the end of the first term. We have just decided to do the second time at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u233	That means I'm suspending the meeting now.
