ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the VAO RBZ/Trade. Before I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, I would like to welcome everyone, but in particular the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I call Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to report that I'm replacing my colleague Mrs Diks here. She's different on this committee, but she had another appointment. On behalf of her, I would like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as part of the negotiations between the EU and Mercosur countries, a new trade agreement is being discussed on increasing market access for meat products from Mercosur countries in the EU;]] [[noting that the Minister for Medical Care warns about meat from Brazil, which is infected with salmonella in 2% of cases, which is fraudulently tested in laboratories;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Council that it will not agree to wider access of meat products from Mercosur countries until the safety of these products is significantly improved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to agree to the outcome of the negotiations for a trade agreement between the EU and Japan, also known as JEFTA;]] [[noting that neither by this agreement nor otherwise, illegal whaling and dolphin slaughter in Japan is stopped;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Council not to accept the outcome of the negotiations for JEFTA before Japan takes a significant step towards combating illegal whaling and dolphin slaughter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1868]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1869]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. In the AO we discussed several subjects, including the import duties which the Americans want to impose on steel from among others the EU. I have a question about that. Today, on POLITICO, there was a message that negotiations could lead to the EU agreeing to import more shale gas, liquid natural gas, from the United States in exchange for an exemption position. Can the Minister deny this? Because it seems to us very worrying if this is the result of this whole situation. In addition, we have discussed the situation surrounding investment treaties and the EU Court has decided that ISDS clauses are unlawful. I'd like the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on 6 March last the European Court of Justice decided that ISDS clauses were unlawful;]] [[believes that investment protection should never lead to parallel justice with privileges for investors vis-à-vis the rest of society;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the investment treaties which the Netherlands has with EU Member States as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1870]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, which I will co-table on behalf of Mr Diks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that monitoring, and monitoring, agreements on sustainability, labour standards and the environment within trade agreements are essential in order to achieve responsible trade and provide benevolent companies with a level playing field;]] [[noting that agreements on sustainability, labour standards and the environment are often included in the sustainability chapters of trade agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to work within the EU to establish a mechanism that gives sustainability chapters a binding force, including possible consequences in case of non-compliance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1871]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the motions and questions that have been tabled. I would like to comment briefly on every motion. The first motion in part No. 1868, by Mr Westerveld and Mr Diks, concerns the desire not to allow any further increase in meat exports from Mercosur to the European Union, as well as, of course, the quality requirements to be met. It is a clear motion and I understand why the authors have formulated it. As far as I am concerned, there are two issues in the motion which cannot necessarily be linked. One is the quota. This is still a matter of negotiations between the EU and Mercosur. As a cabinet, we hope that Mercosur will come to a successful conclusion. The second is the question of primary importance of quality requirements. Whether there is more or less meat on the market as part of the negotiations, the quality requirements must be met anyway. I think it is very important that, as the Minister for Medical Care and the Minister for Agriculture said in a letter to the Chamber of 27 April, the EU should remain able to respond adequately to meat that might not meet the quality requirements and safety requirements of healthy food, and to exclude that from the EU market. More stringent measures have been in force on the market for imports of meat from Brazil since last March. We will continue to take these intensified measures for as long as necessary. As far as we are concerned, the quota is a matter for the negotiation process, because the food safety requirements remain relevant in any case; I would not want to link them up. Since the motion is made in this way, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	A brief question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	A clarifying question to the Minister. Does the Minister not consider a higher quota to be a reward for cheating on countries like Brazil, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	No, because there's no correlation with lack of supervision. Even if you had a quota of 10,000 metric tons, there should still be food safety. Every piece of meat that comes into the Netherlands from Brazil must meet the requirements. It's not a reward, but there's a trade in the negotiations. In the end, this comes to a compromise, to an overall approach. I honestly believe that a number of countries within the EU are not at all keen to increase the quota of meat imports, so that is not even a race yet. But I am not directly related to a possible increase in the quota in the negotiation process. There is an exchange towards the EU in a number of sectors where we want an increased quota for our exports. It is ultimately a negotiation, but food safety is relevant for every piece of meat; it is not the quota that determines it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	I suggest you proceed with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Then the motion to part No. 1869, also a motion from Westerveld and Diks, calling on the cabinet not to agree to the trade agreement with Japan. I would like to say in advance that it is a good agreement on this cabinet. We believe that companies will benefit enormously and the EU standards will be maintained. As I explicitly stated in the AO, we, the Netherlands, are opposed to illegal whale fishing by Japan and everything that comes around it. But not agreeing to this agreement will not solve the problem of illegal whale fishing. The inclusion of sustainability agreements, as well as the proper monitoring, enforcement and appointment of violations, will increase and strengthen the chances of this agreement. Unfortunately, I must advise against this motion. Then there's the motion in part No. 1870 by Mr Alkaya and Mrs Diks. This calls on the Cabinet not to cancel intra-EU investment protection through a multilateral treaty. We believe it is desirable that the termination of intra-EU IBOs, to name them, should take place in the most orderly manner possible, as carefully as possible and taking into account all the legal complex issues involved. At present, the almost 200 intra-Union investment agreements are being terminated at once under the same conditions through a multilateral agreement. This confirms legal certainty and promotes a level playing field within the EU. I see three problems with Mr Alkaya's and Mrs Diks' motion. On the one hand, we are committed to encouraging the Commission to ensure as carefully and as soon as possible, but without any specific deadline, that all treaties are terminated at the same time for all EU Member States. We are not going to do this bilaterally, because we are committed to EU unity and to all the rules of the game within the EU. As soon as possible? Yeah, but not with an end date, 'cause I don't want to commit to a date that's gonna be a big deal. I don't think it's gonna be feasible by the end of the year if you see where we are now. It is May, so there is a summer recess coming, also for the Commission. Then it is September and December. I honestly do not think that this is feasible in terms of content. What I would like to do, as I said earlier, is to encourage the Commission to do it as quickly and as carefully as possible, which means that it is in force at a certain point and applies to everyone. Perhaps Mr Alkaya would like to reformulate the motion. I don't know. If the motion remains as it is now, I must, unfortunately, advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	I know the Minister's commitment to doing it as soon as possible. We discussed that in the AO and that is of course very good. At the same time, I am concerned about the European Commission. The Minister is having these talks next week, but I wonder if the Commission is feeling any urgency at all or whether it wants to lift the elections to the European Parliament. If that is the case, then in two years' time we will still be dealing with those treaties which contain an illegal ISDS clause. I don't want to change the motion. However, I would like to read in the report of the Minister's discussions what the Commission has said about the date. I maintain my motion to do so at least as soon as possible and as far as I am concerned by the end of this year at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	I reject the motion, but at any rate make a commitment that I will encourage the Commission and ask it to clarify and clarify the timetable and a realistic timetable. I will ask her for explanations and for regular communication back to the Member States. I can take it to the Chamber. The last motion tabled is the Van den Hul motion. It deals with similar binding forces on sustainability chapters. I fully agree with the desire for good compliance with sustainability provisions in trade agreements. They are just as important as any other part of a trade agreement. I hope you will see that again in the future. These are of course extremely important in all the discussions we are having on the new memorandum on foreign trade and development cooperation. I do have a question concerning the text. You have indeed changed "sanctions" from previous conversations to "consequences." If the clarity exists that "consequences" do not lead to "sanctions," because that is something else, I think we can live well with this motion. I am talking about a disagreement about sanctions that we had before in an AA. Sanctions contain a legislative element. They're very tight and strict, and unsatisfied. In this case, when it comes to the Commission, they cannot be imposed. The Commission really needs to take a good look at the agreements made, monitor them properly and report on them. It must also appeal to the counterparty for non-compliance and its consequences. That is a political conversation, while sanctions would be financial or material.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	That is exactly what I mean by that: that they are binding agreements that can be followed and implemented. I mean "consequences" here, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	Would you please clarify for me what you are thinking about in terms of "consequences"? I do not want to give a legislative dimension to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	What these consequences look like should be further clarified. What matters to me is that they are binding agreements and not, as they are now, non-binding agreements. What this binding form looks like can be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	Then I think it is important that we first talk to the other Member States and the Commission. I think I can also promise, because I agree, that sustainability needs to get more teeth in all trade agreements. Teeth means that the Commission should increase its weight, the weight of the Member States. It must, just as we do in the Netherlands, look at agreements and the voluntary basis that remains important. If "consequences" means moving towards legislation, it will soon be a very difficult process, because we are dealing with sovereign Member States. I don't want to make promises that ultimately have no substance at all. I am prepared to talk to the Commission to say that we want a higher level of ambition as regards the search for compliance and effective implementation of sustainability. I'll report on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think that is exactly what Mrs Van den Hul means. It is not intended that you still have the content...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's exactly what I'm talking about. I think it is important that the Netherlands takes the lead, or continues to take the lead, not only in terms of compliance with the agreements on investment, but also in terms of human rights, labour and the environment. That is what matters to me: that they are also respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	I do not want to enter into a semantic discussion with Mrs van den Hul, far from it, because we are, in a sense, very much on the same lines. However, it is important that we do not, of course, set another course for dispute resolution. There's no sign of that. So I would like to express an intention, but I do not want a binding effect, because that is another aspect. So the text has to be changed. Then I should ask you to hold the motion, to look at the motion again in terms of language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mrs van den Hul, no discussion on the substance of the motion, otherwise we will remain... The question is, are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would, of course, like this commitment to be taken to the next Council. That was the approach of the motion. I would prefer to put the motion to the vote, particularly in order to support the Minister in her ambition in the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u24	Are you gonna keep it on or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u25	If it is the Minister's wish to discuss it further and she thinks that we will then get closer, then I will hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u26	Okay. You have until Tuesday to think about it. No, until today, I hear from our clerk. I understand you want to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's starting to get a little unclear what the Minister's reaction to the motion is. In my view, the committee has clearly agreed in the AO IMVO that the commitment would be to promote the IMVO agreements, which are also clearly sustainable. Now a motion is being tabled on the consequences...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u28	That motion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u29	I think it is important that we do not send a double signal in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u30	Can I just say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u32	We're not sending a double signal. We point out that there must be an ambition level in terms of expectations. I have made it very clear that we are not going to set a separate path for dispute resolution. So we are not going to look at legislative power either. It's on a voluntary basis. That's why I appointed the covenants. That's our lead. That's our example. However, the Commission has other means with the political agreements it has with many Member States. It can therefore promote an ambition level that goes beyond the covenants. But it's still voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u34	A final answer to a question from Mr Alkaya. Honestly, I'm not really into speculation. POLITICO is very good, we all read it. It's a report. We do not yet have a feedback on what has been discussed at official level at the European Council. I can only say what was said in the AA: we are looking at unanimity. You've seen what Prime Minister Rutte has made public. We attach importance to EU unity. We don't want to negotiate with the so-called guns on the chest. We want to see what is possible in dialogue with the US. Should we be able to do so, because we are not yet here, we would like to see what that package might mean. We take all aspects, including sustainability and all other things that are very important to us. Furthermore, I cannot comment on POLITICO at this time. I can't deny or confirm anything, because I don't have any actual reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u36	We shall be voting on the motions tabled this afternoon.
