ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, as well as the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. There have been six speakers. It is a thirty-member debate, so time is a little more limited. I propose a maximum of two interruptions, and every interruption in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP. It has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u2	Last year, from every euro growth in the economy worldwide, 82 cents went to 1% of world's richest citizens. Let that work for you: 82 cents of every euro of economic growth. One in nine people in the world is starving, as the United Nations reported this week. 821 million people by now. The crazy thing is that in developing countries there are people who don't know what to do with their money. For example, in Nigeria, the richest man receives enough interest on his ability to pull 2 million people out of extreme poverty. Can the Minister indicate how it is specifically committed to reducing inequalities within developing countries? I was just talking about global inequality. It grows, but also in the Netherlands that inequality grows. We have more millionaires than ever, while 1.4 million Dutch people are dealing with problematic debts. In the Netherlands, 45 cents of every euro of economic growth goes to the 1% richest people. The inequality in the world is rising in every country. This is happening less in Europe than in the Middle East, but what we can certainly see is that the argument that it would be good for the whole economy if you made rich people richer is proven wrong. Does the Minister agree with me that trickledown theory should be written off? Tax cuts for the richer, tax cuts for multinationals: we see it taking place worldwide. The tax paid by workers is increasing. And there is less and less left for facilities that benefit the entire population. Avoiding corporate tax costs poor countries $100 billion a year. That is enough to allow 124 million children to go to school or to improve health care in such a way as to prevent 6 million children from dying. We reduce global inequality by finishing the Netherlands' tax haven. Is the Minister prepared to do so and ensure that the Zuidas is no longer populated by all American multinationals? I asked for the Minister of Finance's presence today. That was not for nothing, because the report on increased global inequality recommends that policies be made. It recommends: fair taxes where rich people contribute more because they can miss more, transparency about financial data and invest in what is good for all of us, in care and education, which benefits everyone. Does the government follow these recommendations? Will this also be at the heart of this minister's policy, for example, when it concludes trade and tax agreements with developing countries? Mr. Chairman. Inequality leads to less economic growth. It leads to insecurity and instability. I am not saying that, as the World Trade Organisation says. We see that in the world, too. A lot of people are looking for a better future. If you don't share prosperity, in a country or worldwide, you end up playing with fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you. I said at first that there were six speakers, but I see that three speakers want to make use of their speaking time. You don't have to use your one minute. You can also just react later. But you don't have to, I say. Mrs. Becker is going to use it anyway. Fine. Mrs. Becker of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u4	Globalisation and innovation have driven world economic growth forward. Health care, clean drinking water and electricity became available to more and more people. Where 42% of the world still lived in extreme poverty in 1980, it is now less than 10%. But none of that is in the report we're discussing today. This shows that a large proportion of this growth has reached the highest incomes. This has reduced extreme poverty in the world, but increased income inequality. That's a realization that's not new. Following the European Commission's approach, the cabinet is working on harnessing globalisation to ensure that not only a small group reaps the benefits of globalisation and that free trade is also fair trade. As a seventh donor in terms of development aid, the Netherlands is working on a global perspective. Dutch companies are also working hard on solutions to societal challenges in these countries. Madam President. This is the core of the BuHa-OS policy, where help and trade go hand in hand. In her letter on this report, the Minister said this very well. I don't have any questions. I would like to thank you all for your cooperation. I say goodbye to this committee today, and I trust that my colleague Wybren van Haga will continue to highlight the importance of a proactive trade agenda and of help that really works. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u5	Thank you. Now I understand why you wanted to use your speaking time. You have an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u6	Yes, and that once again gives me the opportunity to ask Mrs Becker a question in her last debate on this subject. I actually have some sort of analyzing question about this file. I would like to know from Mrs Becker whether she recognizes that the theory of making the rich richer, because then the whole economy will be richer, does not really go on, because we see that economic growth worldwide goes more than 82% to the richest 1% and not to the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u7	I would like to give you an analytical answer to that. I've never been a defender of the theory "make the rich richer." I'm a defender of economic growth and of perspective for everyone to make something of their own life. So I don't think I need to distance myself from a certain theory today. Here's what I want to say. With people who use reports of this kind to indicate that economic growth is not important and innovation is not important, and with people who use reports of this kind to increase the burden on companies and make it more difficult for companies, I do not agree. After all, we see: the extreme poverty that has fallen in the world has also decreased thanks to economic growth and progress. And that is why I want to have a proactive agenda and not the defensive agenda that we sometimes see in this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u8	I come from another committee, that of finance. There we talk a lot about tax avoidance and tax evasion. We know that those big companies that Mrs Becker is such a fan of are dodging 100 billion in profits tax/company tax worldwide. Does she think that's right? Could the world not be much better in terms of access to food, education and clean drinking water if we were to ensure that at least the Netherlands is not the fiscal hub it is today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u9	Thank you for this question. It is indeed not part of my portfolio, but I have often discussed this with my colleague Helma Lodders. She has had these debates with Mrs Leijten. It has often stated that tax evasion and tax avoidance are two different things: tax evasion is illegal and tax avoidance is not. But the question is whether everything must always be possible. And I believe that the Netherlands is also working hard on this at the moment: combating tax havens and passing money on to them, but also combating companies that do not contribute to the economy but want to benefit from a fiscal environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u10	There is another interruption by Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u11	I have a question for Mrs Becker. You say that growth and innovation are needed. Now we see in that report, which goes back decades, that this inequality within countries is increasing, despite that growth. So how can you maintain that only that growth model, that growth thinking, contributes to reducing that inequality and that we are on the right track? I would also mention this in the knowledge that extreme poverty has indeed decreased. But if you realize that the definition of "extreme poverty" is a dollar a day that has recently been raised to one and a half dollars a day, then of course that doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u12	If the conclusion is that this report shows that economic growth is not good, then I do not agree. I believe that this report shows that, in various parts of the world, particularly in Asia and Africa, but also in North America, income disparities have increased, and that economic growth is concentrated there on a small part of the population, namely the richest. But the report also shows that these differences are the smallest in Europe and that, within Europe, we are doing very well in the Netherlands. This is where income disparities are actually getting smaller and smaller. In my opinion, it is precisely for our little country, which is doing so well, that it is a huge challenge, where we are wonderfully successful, to be significant in the rest of the world in order to reduce poverty and corruption, too, and to ensure that people there have a perspective of a better life. I think that's what this minister is doing. I think the report is a good support in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u13	I'm just trying to figure out how to sum it up. Mrs Becker actually says that the Netherlands can serve as an example for other countries with regard to income distribution. It is true that the report indicates that these differences are relatively smaller here than in other countries, but then Mrs Becker looks very, very minimalist. If you consider that the Dutch lifestyle requires three and a half globes, does Mrs Becker realize that this cannot be sustained by other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u14	Yes, but the report says, as I mentioned at the beginning, unfortunately not so much about the number of people who have come out of extreme poverty, precisely because of economic growth and activity. As I said, where 42% of the world lived in extreme poverty in 1980, it is now less than 10%. Of course that is not all at the level of the Netherlands, but in a lifetime I think it matters a lot if you get access to electricity, clean drinking water or education. The Netherlands can contribute to this, and I believe that this Minister can also contribute to this. My colleague, Wybren van Haga, will be happy to continue the debate with you on this in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u15	Thank you very much, and I wish you every success with your new portfolio. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Bouali of D66, who needs a minute's speaking time. So short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u16	Thank you, Madam President. It is worrying that, in almost all parts of the world, inequality within countries is increasing. At the same time, it is encouraging to see that public policies can reverse developments. That is why D66 is so pleased with the commitment of this minister, because for the first time since 2010, we are investing heavily in development cooperation. That is what we do to fight poverty, to eradicate hunger and to give people opportunities for a better life. In short, we are doing so to reduce global inequality. The Minister's policy paper and the cabinet letter she recently sent to the Chamber contain many measures that the Netherlands is taking. D66 supports this policy. We will continue to work for a just world, without poverty, without hunger and with opportunities for all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u17	Well, that was short and powerful, within a minute. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u18	Mr President, before time runs out, it almost seemed like such an ode that you used to hear in miselections, in which they were proclaiming the world peace. That's what we all want. That's a nice summary, I think. Mr. Chairman. Three points in three minutes: why it is right that we should have the debate on this issue with this minister, which are the causes of inequality and what needs to be done. Then I'll come back to point one. It is good to talk to this minister about extreme forms of inequality in the world because of her great experience with it, with what it does with humans, animals and nature. These are very direct experiences, for example when she was stationed in Lebanon. I read an interesting article about that. Mr. Chairman. The World Inequality Report is about inequality between countries, but essentially outlines the painful consequences of the victory of the people's centre of thought, the short-term economic interests. The trend is that inequality within countries is greater. The causes are not directly identified, but are really hidden in a system in which capital is more profitable than labour, and so the latter always loses out with nature as a child. Where a massive shift has taken place from public capital to private capital and where a race to the bottom, a "winner takes it all" trend, creates a very small rich group, and a very large group that sees its certainties evaporate. Where income from volatile capital can be taxed fine, but where it doesn't happen. The best example of this is, of course, the abolition of the dividend tax, with which you deliberately give up an instrument for redistribution and the neoliberal course of being, above all, a welfare state for multinationals. The first question, of course, is: how can the minister who is so worried about inequality take care of that? She's part of that. And we have another trend to mention. If you take the differences between countries, you can see that they are getting smaller. That seems to be a good thing, until you realize that the less fortunate countries often take over our western consumption style and that our trade and walk is directed towards that by exporting more and more. Take only the export of agricultural products, with disastrous consequences. Mr. Chairman. The system of short-term economic interests is not a sustainable system. The broad welfare monitor shows that. The Netherlands already needs three and a half globes to maintain its way of life. Does the Minister agree with us that this life is to the detriment of future generations and untenable? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In our view, the report clearly states that a system change is needed, that the current globalisation of free trade agreements at the expense of developing countries is not going to solve the problems, that a government policy that continues to focus on economic growth, for example, by keeping primary raw materials cheap and making recycling expensive and by taxing labour heavily and avoiding capital, is not going to solve the problems. Well-being and prosperity within the limits of the planet, including for future generations, isn't that what this was about? You have recently received a book on this from my colleague Esther Ouwehand. The crucial question is whether the Minister also understands that it is not going to work within the current system and that this makes it demonstrably greater. I would like a response from the Minister on how she sees this system change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u19	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u20	Mr. Chairman. 150 billion dollars, that's the assets of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. That was a summer news. Bezos is now the richest man in the world of all time. This year alone, he got 50 billion dollars richer. This week, the UN announced that the number of people suffering from hunger has increased for the third year in a row. One in nine people doesn't have enough food. These are some current facts besides a thorough study by Thomas Pigkty and Gabriel Zucman. The picture is that, although there seems to be a trend towards a decline in inequality between countries, there is an increase in inequality within countries. Causes lie in the consequences of climate change, conflicts that arise partly for this reason and the increase in the number of refugees that result from it. Does the Minister share this analysis? What strikes me is that the cabinet likes to relate the reduction of the number of refugees to the budget for development cooperation and international trade, but that an approach to the root causes, especially the international approach to climate change, seems to be lacking. How's that? And what does the development, like the UN, actually mean in terms of increasing hunger for the Sustainable Development Goals? Is that what the Minister is worried about? Developing countries miss many billions due to tax avoidance and evasion. This is at the expense of the possibility for countries to pursue income policies or the budget for investment in care or education. The Netherlands is a key factor in this, but the approach to tax avoidance is now a priority of this cabinet. I've complimented the Secretary of State for that, too. But I would like to ask this Minister to interfere with the fiscal treaty policy on the basis of her responsibility. Does it agree, for example, that tax treaties with developing countries should be based on the interests of developing countries and that the Netherlands could use the UN Model Convention as a soil? I'd like a response. Then the race to the bottom. Lower and lower taxes on capital. Increasing taxes on labour and income. Abolition of the dividend tax and a substantial reduction in Vpb fuel the fire under this race. Where does this race end, in which the Netherlands is one of the frontrunners? What are the consequences, including for developing countries? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Does the Minister recognise that growing inequality within countries is one of the greatest challenges, such as the IMF, the World Bank, economists of the inequality report, the WTO and many others? Does the Minister see a link between increasing inequality within countries and increasing political polarisation? Think, for example, of the Brexit or the political chaos in the United States, but it also applies to many other countries. I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u21	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Global income inequality leads to conflict and is a major cause of migration. The World Inequality Report mainly reveals what we already know, namely that income inequality is mainly a worrying development in Africa and Asia. It is right that this minister has made tackling inequality part of her policy agenda. For the CDA, the focus on the most vulnerable of society is important. Those are mainly girls and people with disabilities. With this OS policy, we contribute to improving conditions to provide people with more perspective and opportunities. The explosive increase in Africa's population in the coming decades is worrying. We need to see these themes together, demographics and inequality. This is on the agenda for the committee. We're going to go into this in more detail over the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u23	That calls for an interruption by Mrs Leijten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u24	I think that "to combat global inequality and growing income inequality with development cooperation" is a bit of a myth. You can see, for example, that tax evasion and avoidance is a major driver of inequality. But I had another question. That's the same one I told Mrs. Becker of the VVD. There are economists who say: make the rich richer and lower their taxes, then that makes for a kind of trickle-down................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Given the figures in that report, we can see that this is proven wrong. Because from that one euro growth, €0.82 goes to 1%. Does Mrs. Kuik recognise that trickle-down economics isn't working?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u25	First of all, let me respond to Mrs Leijten's first comment. I am not as cynical as Mrs Leijten about the effects we can achieve as the Netherlands in the area of BuHa-OS. I am proud that we have had a trend break for years and are making extra efforts to tackle inequality, especially in those countries where poverty is the greatest. Mrs Leijten says: the rich are getting richer and richer. That is not an ideal I stand for or where the CDA "preaches" for. It is precisely this inequality that we recognise. In addition, we say: focus on those vulnerable too. That is what we are doing with this policy. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u26	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u27	It's so striking. The VVD also said that it never said: make the rich richer; that's good for the whole economy. But in fact, it is what this government does. She lowers taxes for the richest. It gives the richest shareholders in the world a abolition of the dividend tax. That is all money that you could also put into fighting inequality worldwide. Because development cooperation is not going to completely solve this inequality, especially as long as we are the world's fiscal hub.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u28	I told you before: we have a trend break for years and we are investing more in development aid. We can be proud of that. I have already said that, but I would like to repeat it once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u29	Thank you. The Minister indicated that she needed about ten minutes to prepare the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u30	The Minister is ready to answer the questions. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Many thanks also to Members of Parliament for their contributions to this short but powerful debate. The great inequality in the world remains, of course, a source of concern. I find the WIR very interesting. The report provides important facts and gives interesting perspectives. Ultimately, the message is also that national policies matter: choices made by governments. The comparisons between regions are also very relevant. It also shows, of course, the good examples that Europe still has to offer. It also comes with a number of perspectives, such as a progressive tax system, investment in education and, of course, the whole framework within which prosperity can be created. Nowhere have I heard that it is said that economic growth is not enough and that this is not an important issue. There is, of course, always talk, as in the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Note, about sustainable inclusive growth nexis development cooperation and proactive trade. This can create prosperity for the Netherlands, but also give a huge start to shared prosperity in countries that need it most. This growth can create jobs through training, investment in education and cooperation with companies and start-ups in developing countries. Most of the countries want to move from aid to trade, and that is also the commitment of this cabinet. That is why we have called our paper, which was discussed in detail with the Permanent Committee for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation of this Chamber in June, 'Investing in Perspective'. It's about perspective. In developing countries, perspective is a long-term process, but it is also a process in which a great deal of progress can be measured in many countries. We want, of course, to continue that progressive line. One concern is, of course, that inequality also increases within countries. Most of the poor in the 21st century often live in middle income countries. That's a matter of concern. We have always known from the development economy and from studies that gross national product is a very superficial indicator of prosperity or the well-being of people in countries. Of course, it remains a matter of concern and that is why you will also see in our note and in the choice of this cabinet of focus regions and focus countries that we are looking at precisely where our own contribution can be most relevant. I would also like to mention the strength of the centres of excellence in our development cooperation. We are also looking at where investment by companies and the government will prove most effective. Of course, we are also looking at the causes of inequality within countries, although not so much in this report. But it's being reported. It can be based on ethnicity, usually including gender, age, social class, residence, access to services or the exclusion of services due to the workplace or place of residence. It can be in rural areas or in the less favoured parts of the major cities. Difference in odds also makes the perspective different. Inequality, of course, remains a challenge that we want to tackle together, because it is also a translation in lack of law. The human rights perspective is also one that has been very strongly taken into account in this cabinet's note. We also, of course, watch how this affects the planet, human, society and animal. Rather, I was very struck by the presentation of the economist who wrote the Donut Economy. That is indeed the book offered to me by the representative of the Party for Animals. It sets out very nicely how we should consume differently and therefore produce differently. However, this is a way of life and work and that does not happen overnight. That is why we are looking at an international climate action and a national implementation of the national climate agreement. We are looking with the cabinet at how to start and implement a circular economy and we also share this knowledge with other countries. Madam President. A question has been asked about the relationship between increasing inequality within countries and increasing political polarisation. That was a question from Mr Snels van GroenLinks. The connection is obvious. However, I do not want to use this evening to perhaps reach simplistic conclusions on my part. There's been a lot of writing about it. What can be said is that the commitment of this cabinet, both nationally and internationally, remains to reduce inequality. Anyone who feels marginalized, whether in our society or elsewhere, is of course someone who thinks or feels that society is not there for him or her. In many situations, for example, countries that have already experienced conflict or several conflicts, this is obviously a very dangerous mix. But to put on my side this evening "yes, there is a one-to-one causal link between increasing inequality and polarization" goes too far. This, I think, requires a different conversation. However, it is important to recognise that we need to look at what resources we have, which investment paths are the right ones and how we can work with them. There was a question, Madam President, by Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party. He asked me about the system and the short-term economic importance. Life on the puff has been mentioned and he has also asked whether how we live, work and produce is not at the expense of other generations. He also asked whether the "current system" between quotes, because it is important to name carefully what system we have does not make inequality even greater. We're seeing enough. When you look at the consequences of climate change, especially in developing countries, we see and feel enough alarm bells. The poorest have been hit hardest by all aspects of climate change and we are therefore also working with a certain urgency on the major issues. For this cabinet and for me, in the BuHa-OS note, the SDGs, the sustainable development goals, are the guiding principles. We are working on an ambitious agenda with a timetable up to 2030. We are actually already behind on some targets and there is therefore a need for acceleration. Much more investment is needed and this observation is actually an appeal to the private sector, institutions, knowledge institutions and governments of all countries to look even more closely at the system, social services, tax systems and climate policy. This "conflict" and cooperation are necessary in order to make even better use of it. The major issues are related to inequality, but the SDGs are therefore that inclusive agenda for this. When it comes to the prospect for the poorest, I think, Madam President, that it is very important to look at prevention. If we invest in sustainable development and the rights of others, we will indeed invest in shared prosperity and security. This has been mentioned a number of times by a number of speakers here. As far as we are concerned, the emphasis remains on education and work, job opportunities, quality work, fair pay for fair work and working conditions. We are committed to this in the negotiations by the European Commission, because international trade agreements are, of course, an EU competence. These trade agreements should focus on sustainability, standards and standards for animal welfare, labour and the environment. Our efforts should focus on the sustainability impact of the trade agreements. Trade treaties themselves are one of the many means of raising prosperity. Nor are they the only means of combating inequality. The same applies to investment treaties. They are primarily intended to protect investment and enable the process of judicial redress to be carried out where necessary. In all agreements with the EU, we see in political dialogues and within all other frameworks how we can support the whole, much broader sustainability agenda and human rights. Climate change I've already reported it hits the poorest, in developing countries the hardest. But we are also offering investments, and I refer again to the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Policy Paper and technology offered by knowledge centres or companies. We also offer the access needed to build a green, inclusive economy. In doing so, we aim at an integrated effort to combat climate change and promote economic growth, with attention to the most vulnerable groups. These are important priorities in our policies, and so is the choice of climate finance. As far as trade policy is concerned, I have just mentioned all the trade agreements. Returning to a question, I would like to confirm that trade agreements are not just about trade liberalisation. They are also based on compliance with international agreements such as ILO conventions and OECD guidelines for multinational companies. This is on a voluntary basis, but the Dutch government appeals to every company. There's an appointment, there's an expectation. If there are abuses, they are immediately followed up. For example, you are all familiar with the so-called Heineken beer girls. I immediately followed that up in my conversation with the CEO of Heineken. We've asked for measures. It was about abuse and possibly sexual abuse in that sector. It is a private company, a multinational company, but it has been followed up directly by this government. We see this as actively pursuing and seeking compliance with the OECD guidelines. There are many examples of this. They don't always make it to the newspaper, but they're actively working on it. There were two questions about policy coherence in taxes and several questions about tax policy. I shall begin with the policy coherence in taxation in an international context. Of course, we are looking for policy coherence. An action plan has recently been sent to the Chamber. The distribution of income and wealth can be less distorted by taxes based on support. That is national policy, as is the enforcement of tax payments, which is also the responsibility of the National Tax Administration. In order to combat tax avoidance and alleged evasion by companies and individuals, international cooperation, if I go wider to the rest of the world, is a prerequisite. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, the issue of increasing multilateral cooperation is therefore on the agenda. We are, of course, an OECD country. As far as our tax arrangements are concerned, we are looking at the OECD. In the context of cooperation with developing countries, we are looking at the UN conventions that they themselves have concluded. A new note from the Secretary of State for Finance is coming to this Chamber to see how best to combat tax avoidance and evasion on internationally important issues. We also provide technical assistance from the Ministry of Finance, with the support of my Ministry, to build up in developing countries the capacity to combat tax evasion there, in the country itself, and to ensure that, in accordance with Addis Ababa's agreements on the own financing of developing countries, its own financial capacity is built up and strengthened through taxation. Of course, developing countries benefit from this and want to find a better link with international cooperation. There was a question as to whether I would like to commit myself to dismantling the Netherlands, I quote: 'as a tax haven'. I think we should first say that the Netherlands as such is not a tax haven. There's a problem with the flow. You have discussed this with the Secretary of State for Finance many times. This cabinet is going to tackle this and that approach has already begun. On 23 February, my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, extended his approach in a letter to your Chamber. It has been discussed extensively with this Chamber at various times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u32	There are two interruptions, but I think Mrs Leijten can go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u33	I don't want to get ahead of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u34	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u35	Every American multinational is on the Zuidas, and that's not for nothing. Through the Netherlands, a huge amount of money goes to the Bermudas of this world, so no taxes are paid in developing countries. We are very badly classified as a tax haven, as a transit country. There's 4,000 billion going through our country every year through that Zuidas to other places. What exactly is this cabinet's commitment to reducing that? How much will that be in a year or two years? 3,000 billion, 2,000 billion or 1,000 billion? What exactly is the stake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u36	Perhaps I should have said this earlier: I am, of course, Prime Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Secondly, specific measures have, of course, been taken against the role of the Netherlands as a channel of dividends, interest rates and royalties to lowest-taxing jurisdictions. We continue our commitment to incorporating anti-abuse provisions into tax treaties. There will also be withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties from the Netherlands to lowest taxation jurisdictions. The creation of letterbox companies is therefore no longer interesting. This is a very strong example. In my opinion, the perception of tax paradise has sometimes been created in the international public image. I think it is important that the Prime Minister, I believe, had a discussion on this yesterday, as well as the Secretary of State for Finance. There's been a whole series of conversations about this particular point. I have appointed the measures that the cabinet stands for. I have also mentioned what we are doing internationally from the perspective of trade and development cooperation. I have little to add to this at this stage, of course, because next week we will have an opportunity to discuss this with the Prime Minister and the whole cabinet. I do think that the term "tax haven" does not apply to the Netherlands. The specific measures which you have received in writing and which have been discussed in detail are well known. It concerns the definition of the Netherlands as a transit country. Another aspect is that we are an open economy, a trading country. We want entrepreneurs to settle down and stay here. We want to attract other companies. For example, I am very much involved in Brexit policy. What can we do to increase the locational environment for all kinds of companies and to make them interesting? We need to look at internationally operating companies which are also receptive to good structures and which confirm but also protect the tax base. This cabinet also stands for that, but the term "tax haven" is for Mrs Leijten. On the basis of the facts, the cabinet positions and the measures that have already been taken and will continue to be implemented, I do not share that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u37	This is why I invited the Minister of Finance. Of course I appreciate that this minister is there and reads what we all know, but you hope to get a step further in such a debate. For example, we do not yet know at all what rate dividends, interest rates and royalties will be paid when they go to another tax haven. In fact, we do not even know what the definition of the cabinet of a 'tax haven' is yet. The Netherlands is a channel of money, profits that should have been taxed elsewhere to places where there is never again any taxation. That's actually what this minister says. It's 4,000 billion a year. That's the biggest node in the world. That is also where the term "tax haven" comes from. I ask this Minister what is the government's commitment. Do you have to do it halfway? You want 10% off that? I'm actually looking for an answer tonight. Then we can actually play the role that we should play, namely that the Netherlands is no longer a refuge to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u38	I would like to point out that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is here. There will be further discussions with the Prime Minister, with the Secretary of State and with the Minister of Finance specifically about the tax regime. Of course, you are talking about your own words, but the Minister is also talking about her own words. So at the time she refers to other rulers, certainly looking at the subject of this debate, I also hope that we can take that into account. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u39	I'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u40	No, the Minister. You have just asked a question, so I now give the floor to the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u41	But this debate has been requested with the Minister of Finance. The cabinet informed us last week that it would not come and that this minister could answer all the questions in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u42	Yes, but you also know that very specific questions will definitely be discussed next week. Here, however, is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. So you're talking about your own questions and answers, but so is the Minister, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u43	Yeah, but it's kind of lame. We have requested a debate with another minister and the cabinet is delivering this minister, and I appreciate that she is here and I appreciate her commitment, but the questions in the financial field could be answered. The 4,000 billion that the Netherlands as a fiscal...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u44	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u45	It is not new and the demand for ambition to reduce it is not new either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u46	Yes, your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u47	Yes, thank you. I've heard a lot of opinions and I'll test my reading skills again. I put my reading glasses back on. I am indeed the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I have stated what our international policy is doing and how we are strengthening the tax system in developing countries, precisely in order to weaken transit times, to combat corruption, to strengthen earning capacity nationally in developing countries and to get people working, and what we are doing in the Netherlands to build the open economy in a sustainable way. I have also mentioned a number of tax measures that are already known to you, in writing. I therefore believe that in this case I do not add anything at all to this part of the debate, because it is already known and written down. We are all, of course, collective in anticipation of next week. But I'd like to name them again. The abolition of the dividend tax could lead, without additional measures, to the Netherlands becoming increasingly a gateway to the lowest taxing jurisdictions. This is at odds with the policy focus of this cabinet to tackle tax avoidance. Therefore, the Cabinet introduces a withholding tax on dividend, interest and royalty payments to the lowest taxing jurisdictions and in abusive situations. Well, that's quite a story. In any case, I shall come back to the most important issue of the tax system. It's been discussed extensively. The measures are well known. It is important for a trading country with an open economy that we weigh the whole framework. I am very familiar with it in the context of the Brexit how hard it is being worked to help Dutch companies work even more, but also to make the Netherlands attractive as an investment country. Because a third of our income is earned from trade and abroad. We must not forget that. Then shared prosperity. Also our capacity to issue ODA that very expensive ODA from the taxpayer is earned in selected countries on important programs by the Dutch taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u48	Thank you. I am looking at Mrs Leijten to see if she needs a second interruption. That is not the case. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is true that we in the Finance Committee regularly discuss tax avoidance with the rulers. I have also complimented the Secretary of State for Finance on the approach, because at least it is a unique twist in history that the Netherlands is now also tackling tax avoidance. But my question was very specific in its area and concerns tax treaties, especially with developing countries. That is a point that we have very little to discuss in the Committee on Finance, and history has shown that these tax treaties, especially those with developing countries, have been quite aggressive, with a great deal of emphasis, including in the negotiating position, on low withholding taxes on interest rates, royalties and raw materials. My question was very specific to this minister whether she would like to interfere with the fiscal treaty policy of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u50	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u51	We work together and, as I have already mentioned, the Netherlands itself has the basis of the OECD conventions and the OECD. In most developing countries, we look at what the UN standard is. We're looking for a middle ground in there. And with the Ministry of Finance which is there leading in... is looked at what is multilaterally possible. We do a lot in cooperation. For example, the technical assistance provided by the Ministry of Finance is also provided in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Because everything has a hard financial side, but also that sustainable development side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u52	Thank you. Mr. Snels, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u53	One more time. I also talk to development organisations on a regular basis. They continue to worry about the treaties with developing countries, and certainly about the treaties that still exist and their content. They always recommend that these conventions be based on the United Nations Model Convention, which is much more based on the interests of developing countries. I would like to ask the Minister to look at this explicitly once again. Maybe it doesn't have to be in the debate right now. I would ask her to propose a policy change on this point too, or at least to let the Chamber know how we will deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u54	Like I said, we're taking that. But the UN Convention is not the only one. We have our own position, of course, but we are taking things forward in a very progressive way from the UN Convention where they apply to the specific situation in developing countries. Because we're looking from a developmental perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u55	Thank you. I think there was also an interruption by Mr Van Raan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u56	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your patience. From the answer to the questions or the order in which they are answered, I think the Minister is not going to answer the question I asked about the dividend tax. So I want to ask that question something else. Maybe she'll answer it. Take a country similar to the Netherlands in terms of openness and dependence on trade, for example Vietnam or another country. I think we agree that tax measures are intended, among other things, as a redistribution instrument. I say explicitly that they are "among other things" for that purpose. I would like to ask the Minister about the tax instrument as a redistribution instrument. In its policy, would the Minister advise other countries similar to the Netherlands, i.e. countries with an open structure and dependent on trade, to abolish the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u57	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u58	Well, that's an interesting question. I am not asked on the basis of my capacity what I advise other donor countries. We are asked what we are doing, for example, to combat sexual abuse and abuse of power in the aid sector. We are asked how best to invest in education. I cannot imagine that it would be appreciated if I spoke to fellow trade ministers or development ministers about their national policies. I believe that within the EU the Finance Ministers are having a more informed and better discussion about this. But the Netherlands is not asked about this. I think Mr Van Raan has two questions. One: do you agree with the government's decisions on the abolition of dividend taxation? I understand. I respect that, and you have to do that. Two, do I happen to be some kind of missionary to convince others? On that last point, I say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u59	I'm gonna go on the last one. I also heard the Minister say very clearly that one of the most important instruments is the seventeen SDGs, which are central to its policy. I can therefore very well imagine that in the discussions that the Minister conducts with other countries in the implementation of her policy, she also denounces or advises on these SDGs. My question is very simple. If it is such a good idea in similar countries, could it be discussed in your talks, and what would you say? That's not such a weird question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u60	I do not quite understand whether it is about the SDGs or the dividend tax in the context of the SDGs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u61	Perhaps Mr Van Raan could explain that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u62	I'd like to explain. In any case, it is clear that the SDGs themselves do not mention the dividend tax. However, certain SDGs deal with taxes and charges as instruments. So I can well imagine that in this context there are forms of taxation in your discussions. Because you're talking about SDGs. In some SDGs, tax measures appear as an income-sharing instrument; I think we agree on this. What do you say about the abolition of the dividend tax in similar cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u63	I think it's gonna be a mix, but I'm gonna give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u64	It's gonna be an interesting mix. I don't know if there are any similar cases. Of course, we have two layers. On the one hand, we're hanging out with a club donor. The Netherlands is, as Mrs Becker of the VVD said, sometimes donor number five, then seven; at least we are in the top ten. In most cases, conversations with like-minded countries, or traditional donors, are really very much about our international investment policy. In the context of finance, it's about how we want to tackle corruption, how we want to strengthen tax administrations, what we want to do about illegal trafficking, what we do about human trafficking and drug smuggling. That's the whole package, for example, corruption with a big C. Of course, the SDGs are not resources or measures. It's international agreements. They are targets, with a timetable, indicators and targets. Underneath, it's very specific. The Netherlands has now committed itself to a number of SDGs through the new Foreign Trade and OS note. Then, of course, we also have sectors: agriculture and water. That is where our knowledge, technology, expertise and relationship with countries are very important. That's what we invest in. To say specifically, 'hey, we're going to talk about dividend taxation' doesn't come up because it's not dealt with in the many frameworks, in our international agreements or in the World Bank. So a similar case doesn't help me. When I come across such a case, I will always ask how it has worked out in terms of consolidating the investment climate, what companies do with it and how it has worked out in developing countries. My trading book puts me in a nexus of international cooperation and trade. In the OS portfolio we talk more about the Democratic Republic of Congo, about humanitarian access in the war in Yemen or now about humanitarian support for those who fear for their lives in Idlib in Syria. Therefore, dividend taxation is not relevant in such situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u65	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u66	I mean, I was done. I'll check again, Madam Secretary. I've had trade treaties, sector...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u67	And all of a sudden you've got a promotion!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u68	I think I have answered the first round of questions and comments, Madam Secretary. Oh, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u69	Now you're doing it again! I'll take a look at Mrs. Leijten. I think she still needs an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u70	Madam Secretary? What are we gonna get under embargo tomorrow? I'm kidding! That has been a heated debate in this Chamber today. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development has answered a lot of questions, but not all questions. One of my most important questions was the following. The report thus states that global inequality has grown and is growing despite economic growth, as global economic growth goes from €0.82 from €1 to the richest 1%. Does this minister acknowledge that trickledown theory... make the rich but richer, that ultimately benefits everyone of.... is proven wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u71	I always find it an interesting question. I see that there is often talk of recognition in this Chamber. To be honest, I find that often a difficult word. That almost means you have to admit something. I do see value in another economic analysis, but this report does not say: trickledown theory is dead. This report identifies a number of cases. It identifies statistics, facts and differences between regions and within countries. He's naming it. It's not about economic theories. The second is that it gives examples of national policies, such as investing in education and a progressive tax system, which can get disadvantaged people and the poorest to work. These can be positive factors in changing and breaking structural poverty, especially for disadvantaged groups. In my opinion, trickledown theory does not apply to the Netherlands. Nor does Europe and many countries. That is why Europe is relatively successful when compared to other regions. For example, the Middle East is a very interesting case. There the number of poor has partly increased, in percentage terms, due to conflicts. The other form of wealth is oil wealth. It's very artificial and not related to production. So in many regions you have to look from country to country, from situation to situation which has been a backward national policy. I don't read that in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u72	We're having a debate on the report. One of the core values in recent years of neoliberalism and globalisation, which is based on political choices, has been: no limits on capital. If you take it away, the capital will concentrate at the top. It was always legitimized from the view that if the rich are rich, that's good for the whole economy. After 30 or 40 years of globalisation and freedom of capital, not in favour of the poorest but at the expense of the poorest, that theory in the analysis of the SP turns out to be factually incorrect. If we can at least establish that with each other, I don't care what we call it, then the Minister will see that the idea behind neoliberal globalisation, behind which political choices have been hidden, is that it would be good, even for the poorest, even though wealth is concentrated at the top, is not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u73	I do not know whether Mrs Leijten wants to talk about the Netherlands, because we do not see this situation here in recent decades. At the same time, there is indeed a great deal of concern among the average citizen about the effects of globalisation in many countries, especially the developing countries. Of course, we have to look at that as well. People feel disadvantaged, find that there are changes in the job market. The technology will bring about a very different way of producing. As far as I am concerned, what this is going to mean is a much more crucial question and a key point. Shared prosperity? Totally. You will also find this in the Foreign Trade and OS note. How to achieve it? By many measures. By investing, growth, sensible globalisation. We can't turn back the clock anymore. Some might want to, but that's not realistic. The other is, of course, what kind of national policy you put on it. In developing countries, corruption is a huge thing. There's a lot of wealth. DRC, for example, could have been one of the richest countries in the world. It is one of the poorest countries. When you visit it, you wonder how it is possible that so many millions of people may experience conflict, poverty, fear and malnutrition in a country that should have been one of the richest. Bad governance, oppression, corruption and also a colonial past, which doesn't help either. There is also tax avoidance. I hear Mrs Leijten say 'also in the Netherlands', but we do not do blood diamonds, for example. There are many examples. I would like to mention DRC as an example. Globalisation is a matter of concern but it is also in force. It also brings many countries through technology and access to markets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u74	Mrs. Leijten, you've already had two interruptions. You can ask questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u75	President, Democratic Republic of Congo, DRC. Let me just say that for the stenographers. I regret that there can be no reflection on the assumptions that have been made under neoliberal globalisation. Apparently, I ask too much of this minister when I ask him to consider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u76	I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can very well imagine Mrs Leijten's questions, because it seems that the Minister may not realize that she thinks she is on the hockey field while a tennis game is being played. If you don't know what the economic system is underlying the report...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u78	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u79	I can't imagine it is, because she's a sensible woman. She also just indicated that she has knowledge of the underlying theories. I find that very difficult to believe. So I actually have two questions. I think you should, too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u80	You may ask one question. You've had such a long run that I'm giving you a chance to ask one question. If you need it, there will also be a second term. So I'd like to ask you one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u81	Then this is not a question, but a observation. I would like to ask the following question about her contribution. She says that growth is crucial to curb that inequality. I think she is forgetting one thing, namely that it is really crucial to decouple that growth from CO emissions, from greenhouse gas emissions. Because if we do not, the Congo will soon be as prosperous as the Netherlands, but it will last one month because then the raw materials are gone. Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that decoupling such growth and greenhouse gas emissions is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u82	I've heard about Miss World's election. I hadn't heard that in a while, actually. I thought that was over. I hear about women on the hockey field and the tennis club playing different games. I find it very interesting observations. Interesting. I'll stick with that. Then there is the second point. The global economy, prosperity and growth are important. Once you have read the note, you will see that we are talking about sustainable inclusive growth, where economic growth is crucial at the request of developing countries. It's not help, it's business. You can see what trade and priorities are involved in trade agreements. What jobs are involved, you can also see in the development. And if it comes down to the question of what system that is in, then I know very well what the Party's position for the Animals is. Do I share that? No. But there's no competition who's the funniest. I have already answered the question about the report on the doughnut economy. We're all working on the way we produce and consume. I have appointed the circular economy as the cabinet's priority. I have appointed the National Climate Agreement. I have appointed funding for international climate action. This is taken into account in the implementation of the Paris Agreement and in our international cooperation. As far as I am concerned, these are ways of creating a different system. That is not by starting in the way proposed by the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u83	Thank you. Mr Van Raan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u84	I wonder what the Minister means by 'not to start in the way of the Party for Animals'. I honestly do not understand what she means by that, because I think that we are quite close to each other in that sense. But what I am missing in that note is that I do not hear her say it now, because that decoupling is so important, because otherwise we will go out of the rain. All the discussions about which system is behind it for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u85	The note that has been discussed in detail in the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development does not speak of direct decoupling and certainly not of "the present." That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u86	Thank you. Were you at the end of your story? I think all the questions have been answered. Is there still a need for a second term? I see a lot of people shaking their heads. Mrs Leijten does need that. She is also the applicant for the debate, so I give her the opportunity to speak in second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u87	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a report on global inequality prepared by scientists, without a multinational interest. It just follows where the money goes. Where exactly does the euro or the dollar that we are getting richer with each other end up? With everything that gets richer in the world, that dollar gets 80% to the richest 1%, to those who already have everything and who don't know what to do with that money. That is no different in the Netherlands. The inequality is growing. Prosperity is not shared fairly. Every euro we invest in developing countries through the Minister's trade vision will be recouped in the Netherlands through tax avoidance and through multinationals that do so. This is how we deal with development cooperation and the distribution of prosperity. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the gap between rich and poor has grown further worldwide as well as in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that unequal distribution of wealth inhibits economic growth and leads to instability and insecurity;]] [[Calls on the Government to make the World Inequality Report 2018 recommendations: progressive taxation, transparency on financial data, investment in education and health care as an integral part of domestic and foreign policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33625-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers. Another time I would like to discuss the theories underlying the economic systems. Maybe now isn't the time. We are, of course, convinced of the good intentions; I would like to emphasise this. I do have a motion to shape whatever it may be. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that policies aimed at short-term GDP growth are not only disastrous for our planet, climate, habitat and animals, but also lead to huge income inequality;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is a country where company shareholder value is central to economic policy;]] [[Whereas this has not always been the case;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to introduce a renewed Rhineland model into the Netherlands, including the interests of future generations, people elsewhere, our planet and other species,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33625-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u90	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the Minister's answers. I do not think we are going to solve the world's inequality in this three-minute debate. That's why I'm not filing a motion. But I still have a cry of hearts or one question. What strikes me is that economists, economic institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank and the World Economic Forum and liberal journals such as The Economist and the Financial Times see inequality within countries as one of the most important social problems and also as one of the most important political challenges. That is exactly why I asked for the relationship between inequality and political polarisation in the first term, because I am very concerned about that, especially if we want to maintain an open world. What strikes me is that I often hear pious words, good words and good intentions from politicians. I was in the Minister's office again. I'm not charging her for that, especially in this little debate. But I do have one question: how do we get more political urgency for this issue, inequality within countries and political polarisation, both in the Netherlands and in Europe, in cooperation with the OECD and other organisations? I do not think there is any urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u92	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs four minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u93	The Minister is ready to give her appreciation of the motions and one question has been asked. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I believe I have two motions. The first is the motion in part No. 268 by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Karabulut. I advise against this motion. It is not the government's approach to making reports an integral part of domestic and foreign policy. We recently discussed the foreign trade and OS note in June. There is a common foreign and security strategy. A number of other notes have also been presented and discussed. It is, of course, also part of our budgetary planning, which will be presented here next week; the content and the funding that goes with it. By the way, it is our appreciation that the gap in the Netherlands has not grown so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u95	That raises a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u96	I am actually very surprised, because I listened very carefully to the Minister in the first place and she said that all the recommendations in the report were an integral part of her policy, that taxes are being looked at and that the development for the citizens is being taken into account. And then you record it in a motion and then she rejects it. I don't understand anything about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u97	I am not saying that I am not going to do it; I am not saying that I am going to carry out an integral report by means of a motion. That's something else in my language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u98	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u99	It seems to me very complicated to carry out this report in its entirety, because it is a factual observation of how capital goes around the world and where profits fall down and where they do not. I propose that the recommendations of this report, which seeks to combat inequality, be made an integral part of the policy, as the Minister has argued several times in the first term. I really had the impression that the Minister could say nothing but that it is support for the policy, so that she takes over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u100	Well, that's a shame, but I didn't want to give that impression. The issue is that the Foreign Trade and Development Note focuses specifically on the nexus of aid and trade and on combating inequality through a number of specific measures and funding. This includes, for example, elements such as the fight against corruption and the strengthening of the Tax Administration. Of course, I don't want to repeat myself. The note is clear and has been discussed and we are going to implement it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u101	Thank you. Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u102	The second motion in part No. 269 belongs to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals. Dissuade. Then there's a question. I fully agree with the questioner on inequality and the risk of polarisation. However, it is a broad debate, as I have already indicated. It seems to me at first that there is a great responsibility not only for the cabinet, but also for politics, knowledge institutions and others. I look forward to the various debates that can be held in all parts of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-19.u104	Voting on motions will take place on Tuesday 25 September, because we will have Princess Day next week. I thank the Minister, the MPs and any viewers at home.
