ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the report by the Safety Research Council on the safety of air traffic at Schiphol Airport. I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u2	I give the floor to Mr Paternotte as the first speaker. Speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u3	Thank you, Mr President. This morning, the Minister announced a sensible decision in our view on the future of Lelystad Airport, stating that many mistakes have been made in the past and that this means that the government should not continue on the basis of raving research but should do its work properly. We're happy about that. However, that is not what this debate is about. This debate is about security. Safety first, safety at 1, 2 and 3; that's the holy grail in aviation. The safety of passengers, cabin crew, ground staff and residents should be guaranteed. We often talk about security, when it comes to terrorist threats or when it comes to flying over conflict zones, such as the MH17 or when it gets exciting again with very long queues in the summer and the army needs to be deployed to ensure security on the ground. But that does not mean that we should lose sight of flight safety, safety in and of aircraft. It deserves our full attention. Although it is often said that there is no place safer in the world than an aircraft seat, the report shows that we have indeed seen a number of serious near-accidents at Schiphol Airport. Those are the so-called runway incursions. That's one of those moments when two pilots look each other in the cockpit and think: that was close. That's the kind of situation you need to learn to avoid incidents in the future. Therefore, D66 is grateful to the OVV for its report of April 2017. In fact, we are just looking here at a first state of safety of Schiphol, and that is not, in our opinion, an unnecessary luxury. You don't have to be an aviation expert to see that Schiphol is a pretty complicated airport, with three times as many jobs as Heathrow, with constant orbital changes to reduce noise and with taxi routes across the A4. So, Mr President, before I come to the recommendations, there are first the conclusions that the OVV draws. Those dating from the time of a previous government, but learning from the past always starts with conclusion. And these are very harsh conclusions that the OVV has drawn on a number of points. No, Schiphol is not unsafe, but while Schiphol has been growing rapidly in recent years, thinking about safety remained behind. How is that possible, do you then wonder, if nothing is more important than safety? How is it that the Ministry took too little responsibility? How is it possible, for example, that there was no supervision, no overall view of security, and that this was not sufficiently taken into account in policy? How is it that, with the Bijlmer disaster still fresh in many memories, it lacked a clear policy on the safety of residents? And how is it that the knowledge and capacity of the inspection service were insufficient? Finally, on this point, perhaps the most important conclusion that the OVV draws is that at Schiphol Airport the borders can be seen where air traffic can be handled safely. Mr. Chairman. That conclusion brings me to the future and the recommendations of the OVV. Of course, traditionally, all recommendations are embraced with a firm hug, but do we also go from words to deeds? For many recommendations, they are still in consideration, that they are being studied. Study is very good, but action is better. Take things like runway lights, for example. That's a system that shows pilots, especially in poor visibility, through red and green lights on the track when taxiing at Schiphol Airport. For years that has been a fervent wish of the pilots themselves. You'll only land at Schiphol Airport a few times a year with fog and snow. Well, then a system like that is pretty convenient. Schiphol thinks about it, because you have to build it smart, but you still don't have the system. And that while at other airports these runway lights have long proven themselves, as in the United States, but also at Paris Charles de Gaulle, for example. What is the Minister going to do to stop the near collisions on the track? What techniques does she have in mind? At this point, I am considering a motion. In addition, as far as D66 is concerned, the Minister quite rightly announced that a mid-term review of the steps taken up to that period would be carried out in 2020 before further growth could exceed 500,000 flight movements. Can the Minister state exactly what she herself wants to have achieved, in her role as final manager, and what performance she expects from the sector by that time? In other words, what ambition can we keep her to by 2020? Then I would like to ask her specifically about the knowledge and skill at the inspection, the ILT. Because at the best airport in Europe, with perhaps the most complicated orbital distribution in the world, we need a world-class inspection. But is that true at the moment? Rutte I and II have been cutting back for years. Through a motion of D66 and the SP, the ILT is now in the process of aligning tasks and responsibilities, and that is good. But I read in the written answer that the harvest of this report is for the ILT: two additional data analysts, two additional inspectors and one time €600,000 for training and external expertise. Once €1,20 per aircraft for the inspection that supervises safety, that is not a little skinny, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I shall close, but not until Mr Graus has asked me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u4	I heard Mr Paternotte talking about the danger of using our jobs, but does Mr Paternotte realize that there are dangers and that there are additional pressures on air traffic controllers because of the restrictions we impose on the use of jobs, or did he refer to them? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u5	That's exactly what I said. Due to the restrictions we have on runway use, the fact that there is a lot to be changed to avoid noise pollution, but also the fact that we at Schiphol Airport is close to the sea, of course, several jobs have to be used at the same time, depending on the direction of the wind, and the fact that there are taxi roads on a highway. Schiphol Airport is of course an airport that has grown very quickly in hugely densely built area. All of this makes it a very complicated airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u6	I believe that Mr Paternotte, like myself, has been to work a few times with the air traffic controllers. You will hear from those people that they say: more simultaneous use of jobs, for which I have been making motions for years, would help us enormously. Does Mr Paternotte support these motions from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u7	That's one of the questions I'm asking. Of course, we have a good reason to change jobs, but safety must be paramount. As for the work visit, I haven't been to the tower yet. I hope so. I was hoping to do that next week, but I can't because of the crocus vacation there. Mr. Chairman. Five minutes are really too short to do justice to this important report by the OVV, but we are pleased that we are starting an important discussion today between the Chamber and this minister about ensuring flight safety. I would therefore like to invite the Minister to discuss this with the Chamber at least once a year in a special AO Flight Safety. I hope she is prepared to do so. For now, I expect a very clear ambition for 2020, not to score a 6- but at least a 9 for safety at Schiphol Airport next time, because pilots, crew, passengers, residents and everyone who works in aviation are counting on it and can count on it. So let's get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u8	I heard Mr Paternotte talking about a six. Now we've had a lot of information and also at the last minute. But I didn't see a 6- anywhere. Where exactly does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u9	True, that is my appreciation on the basis of the many recommendations and the conclusion of the OVV that thinking about security has been lagging behind in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u10	So it might as well have been a 9 already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u11	As far as I'm concerned, it should be a 9, Mr. Dijkstra, because I think a 6- is not enough if we all consider safety to be the most important thing. Of course, we can never get 100% security, but if there are too many near-incidents, there must be much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u12	The safety as described in the report is not qualified. Right now, we can't say how safe it is, whether it's a 6- or a 9. Does Mr Paternotte agree? Does Mr Paternotte agree with the statement made in the report "That is the general conclusion "that all recommendations must be followed before talking about growth at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u13	I think that's literally what I'm saying. If Schiphol is at the borders, safety must be guaranteed in the right way. The report does say: Schiphol is not unsafe, but there are many incidents. The cooperation needs to be much better. There's not enough direction. Recommendations are always embraced, but the question is indeed whether they are being followed and turned into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u14	That's actually twice not an answer. I'll try again. Does Mr Paternotte agree with us that safety at Schiphol Airport cannot be qualified at the moment? It just can't be. It is not possible to give a quantitative qualification. He replied by asking a counter-question: it is only a question of whether recommendations are being followed. But does Mr Paternotte think that this recommendation should be followed, namely: only on the spot, not on growth, implementing all the recommendations and then on the question of whether possible growth is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u15	Or am I saying that no qualification can be given now? If you say "safe" or "unsafe," you can give a qualification. The appreciation I give to it is indeed the figure I give to it. That's right. I'm doing that on the basis of studying the report. As far as that goes, I agree. If you are talking about following all the recommendations completely before you can talk about growth, I say that is the discussion that we are going to have, not only about safety, but also about environmental impacts, of course. That is exactly why I asked the Minister exactly how she looks at the evaluation she is going to do on security, which she has also said is conditional on the future growth of Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u16	Your third question, Mr. Van Raan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u17	I would not qualify it as a third question, because this is again not an answer. Mr. Paternotte bounces him back. That's exactly what he wants to hear. No, I would like to hear from Mr Paternotte whether he will find out whether he will be able to do so: first of all to the place and then, if necessary, to decide on further enlargement. Does Mr Paternotte agree with the OVV, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u18	Mr Van Raan has the idea that I always bounce things back, but what I did, of course, twice was something to the Minister. Let us not confuse the Minister with Mr Van Raan. The Minister has already given a clear answer in this respect, as it announced that it would carry out a mid-term review of the steps taken up to that period in 2020 before further growth could take place above 500,000. Those are the words of this minister. That is why I have asked her exactly what she wants to achieve, in her role as final responsibility for safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u19	I'm still going on the same theme. Mr Paternotte pointed out that this review was actually a prerequisite for a discussion on possible growth in 2020. Can I conclude, then, that until that evaluation has taken place, there is no basis for a discussion about growth at Schiphol Airport, because the OVV says very clearly at the moment: first, safety in order and then see if growth is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u20	I'm quoting the Minister. I believe that you should ask the Minister this question, because I expect her to believe that if she writes that she wants to carry out a mid-term review in 2020, before further growth can take place above 500,000. On the basis of that statement, I ask her what ambition we can keep in 2020. You have also seen that agreements have been made at the Alders table, allowing for limited growth at Schiphol Airport after 2020. That is within the agreements that apply there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u21	I agree with my colleague Mr Van Raan that Mr Paternotte places it all with the Minister. Finally, I am concerned about the position of D66 in these debates and in future debates on the growth of Schiphol. It is a question of whether we share the same view, namely that the recommendations of the OVV should first be followed and that this should be reviewed in 2020, before you can discuss further the possibility of growth. The Alders agreement does say "fifty-fifty," but hopefully we all agree that security must be a priority. That has to be settled first. This can only be done by 2020, when the evaluation has been carried out. Does Mr Paternotte agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u22	I agree with you that the recommendations should be followed. I do not agree with you that we should wait until 2020. I think it should be done sooner. It is only good that we can see earlier that these recommendations are being followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u23	I'm gonna go back to the six anyway, 'cause that scares me. I also read the report from the OVV. I'd like to test it. In my opinion, the report states that Schiphol is now safe, but that there is a need to work hard on the integrated safety approach and an improvement agenda. However, I do not think it is right for us here, with the OVV report in hand, to note that there is currently an unsafe situation at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u24	I've noticed that the report doesn't say Schiphol is unsafe. It does say that there are a lot of near-incidents. We also saw that the pilots are worried about that. They're also asking to do more about it. If we say that safety is one thing, then we should not say: we are satisfied with that kind of signal. Then we have to say: it really has to be better. That is why I note that a 6- is indeed a sufficient one, but it is also a very clear signal that it needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u25	I'd like to continue with that. If people are watching at home and hearing the qualifications, I hear Mr Paternotte saying something about the 6-; that is a reference of their own, then they should be worried. If you read the report of the OVV and the report of the NLR, you will see that this is absolutely not the case. Does Mr Paternotte recognize himself in that image? Does he also think that people should not worry today that there is a string-safe feeling at Schiphol Airport in one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u26	If the wood rope were at such a complex airport, it would have been devastating. Of course, a lot of professionals work very hard there. But if the security management system is not in order and there are still near-crashes, then I think I should just name it here in the Chamber debate with the Minister who is ultimately responsible for it. You are referring to the NLR report. What the NLR report says is that measures are needed if you want to grow further. That's not for nothing. If everything was perfectly in order, you could indeed grow quite easily without the need for measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u27	There are always near incidents on the runways as well as on the highways as on the track and there is a need to improve every day. I recognize that, too. But can Mr Paternotte at the people's house take away the fear and can he say that there really is no wood rope safety at Schiphol? Can he say that there is indeed a good safety at Schiphol? Otherwise, people will be worried today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u28	My goal isn't to worry people, but my goal isn't to appease people to sleep. I said that the OVV report made it clear that Schiphol is not unsafe. But I also said that there is a whole list of recommendations for a reason. Not for nothing has the OVV chosen to make an integral report. In doing so, they don't deal with one incident, as they normally do, but they put everything together and see how safety management at Schiphol Airport is structured. That's not for nothing. I think it is a little early to say, in the first period of this debate, that there are no problems to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the action groups and all the inhabitants who have worked to postpone Lelystad, because that has now been achieved for one year. We will continue this fight, but that is not what this debate is about. I would very much like to be able to start a debate on aviation without making a comment about restoring confidence in the Ministry, the words of this Minister when she took office as Minister. But, Mr President, I do not have the opportunity to skip this point, because 24 hours before this debate we received a 140-page report from the NLR. That report was signed on 19 January 2018. I think it is grossly scandalous that we should not be sending it until so late. I want to do my job as a representative of the people and be able to do it well, but this cabinet shows that it does not take it so closely with the correct, timely and complete information of the Chamber. In doing so, it is not only insulting the Chamber but also the thousands of people who are following the air carrier dossier very closely. So there is no question of restoring confidence in the Ministry, but on the contrary: that little bit of confidence that was there has already disappeared. Now for the content, Mr. Chairman. Safety at Schiphol Airport is an important issue, because although 100% safety does not exist, the goal must always be "as safe as possible" and not "safe enough." I therefore ask the Minister first of all whether she agrees with this statement. I want to start with the main reason why unsafe situations have arisen at Schiphol Airport in the past. That is the unbridled growth and complexity of the airport. In order to meet all environmental and noise requirements, Schiphol uses many different jobs on an average day to contain the nuisance. "Slightly within limits" is a relative concept here, because around Schiphol some 120,000 to 200,000 people are severely hindered, people who have sleep problems and cannot sit outside in the summer. Mr. Chairman. The Security Research Council is clear in the recommendations made. Some 20 recommendations are made and they must be implemented before any discussion can be made about a possible growth of Schiphol. Assuming that the SP is against growth of Schiphol, I would like to hear from this Minister about the implementation of these recommendations. Which ones have already been executed? Which are being carried out and which are still to be carried out? Mr. Chairman. I would now like to zoom in on two concrete recommendations, starting with the ILT, an important point for the SP. Policy falls or stands with supervision and there is a lack of it. The OVV argues that the capacity and professional knowledge of the ILT are insufficient to effectively monitor the safety of air traffic at Schiphol Airport. That's unthinkable. Can the Minister explain how much FTE is involved in air traffic at Schiphol Airport within the ILT and what she will do with this conclusion of the OVV? Another important recommendation is, of course, point 8, where the OVV states that the Minister should be regularly and publicly accountable for her role as final responsibility for safety at Schiphol Airport. I'd like to hear how she's gonna do it and how many times she's gonna do it. Mr. Chairman. Schiphol has been followed by low-cost carriers and Middle East carriers in recent years. As a result, the airport grew faster to its ceiling. The unbridled growth of Schiphol has led to the need for measures to ensure the safety of travellers, workers and residents. That is why we welcome the Minister's statement that the Alders table is not satisfactory in its present form. May we interpret the Minister's words in such a way that it is really intended that the voice of residents in a new consultation structure should be better heard so that more attention is paid to safety, noise pollution, the environment, climate, nature and animal welfare. Can the Minister confirm this? The workers are also important for safety at Schiphol Airport. We have often heard and talked in recent years about the increased workload of security guards at Schiphol Airport, for example. Due to the high workload they cannot perform their work properly and unsafe situations arise. Does the Minister agree with us that it is important here that Schiphol recognises that certain jobs, good working conditions and good working pressure are essential to keep Schiphol safe? Finally, Mr President. Ensuring the safety of passengers, workers and residents and reducing noise pollution is not accompanied by the growth of aviation. We must stop the illusion that this is possible. We must stop the illusion that this is possible. Perhaps in a number of decades, if there has been huge innovation in aviation. By that time, when we are flying electrically and emissions of, for example, ultra-fine dust are zero, I would like to engage in the debate with other Members of the House, but with all the mistakes, coincidences, mistakes, blunders and miscommunications of the past few months around various aviation files, it is time for this cabinet to make its place, stop skirmishing, carefully look at the future of aviation and, in the meantime, put the intentions to continue growing in the icebox. Only in this way will we restore the damaged confidence in the Ministry and show the Netherlands that the politics and government are indeed there for the people and not for profit maximization and the greed of industry and the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u32	I understand that the SP uses every debate to say that Schiphol should not and never grow. In the coming years you will be served at your beck and call, because until 1 January 2020 Schiphol will not be allowed to grow either. My question is whether, because this is about air traffic safety, you also have ideas for improving safety at Schiphol Airport over the next two years, if those 500,000 movements continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u33	Yeah, those ideas are there. The O.V.V. report is there for a reason. We follow these recommendations. That is why I would also point out that these recommendations must be implemented before we talk about growth at all. Unlike the D66 Group, the SP Group is always talking about working conditions: fixed jobs and enough people on the ground, including at Schiphol Airport, to guarantee that safety. We have very often seen reports from, for example, security guards and baggage dealers, who have a huge workload. This also contributes to safety and I would like to hear more about this from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u34	This really hurts, because we have worked so well with your predecessor to address and address these capacity problems at the ILT. Now, while I've just told you a story about that, you'd like to hear more about it. Now I understand why you called for more speaking time: you simply want to be able to listen to me even more. Then my question. You are talking about jobs on the ground, but you do agree with us that flight movements at Schiphol Airport also provide jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u35	Sure. I was talking, by the way, not about the ILT, but about the jobs at Schiphol Airport. That's what I was talking about, security guards and baggage dealers. I am pleased that the D66 Group also raises the issue of the ILT. That is what we do in every debate. That is an extremely important point. Of course, these 500,000 flight movements also provide jobs. Those jobs are here now. When it comes to wanting to grow, the difference between the D66 fraction and the SP fraction arises. We are now opposed to the growth of Schiphol. We have long argued in favour of looking at the selectivity policy at Schiphol Airport so that, for example, freight flights, which create significant employment at Schiphol Airport, give more security and more space and do not bring in flights that do not actually add anything in terms of employment and have no added value for our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A courageous decision by this minister this morning. Because not only the economy is important and the fact that people want to fly more and more, but we also need to maintain support, including in the region where people are confronted with nuisances. That's a brave decision. This debate today concerns the report by the OVV on air traffic at Schiphol Airport. More than a million people live around Schiphol. Last year, the airport welcomed 68.4 million people, many passengers and a lot of cargo. Thousands of people also earn their living on this mainport every day. Then when you leave Schiphol or you land, you want that to happen safely. This is not self-evident, precisely in a densely populated country and precisely because of the complexity of Schiphol Airport, but despite the five different fully-fledged runways, with all kinds of directions and despite all these environmental regulations, it has been possible to do so. That's a hell of a job. That Schiphol should be safe for all residents and all people who work there, is beyond question for the VVD. The OVV also confirms that this is the case. Schiphol, Air Traffic Control Netherlands and the Dutch airlines comply with the most stringent rules when it comes to international conditions for air traffic. The OVV report also shows that this complexity, the growth of Schiphol Airport and the future guarantee of that safety require more action. Yesterday's report from the National Air and Space Centre indicated that, despite everything we have now, 50,000 additional flight movements should not be a problem for safety, and that is welcome news. Schiphol is therefore safe and can continue to grow as far as the VVD is concerned. Mr. Chairman. Despite the increased pressure of recent years at Schiphol Airport, our airspace has never been at stake and safety has never been at stake. This development is largely the merit of the sector itself, which has a great willingness to report incidents. I would therefore like to congratulate the sector on this. However, the government must also take up its role as a regulator and system manager, and I have concerns about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u38	You can finish this sentence, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u39	Then I'll start with the concerns I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u40	A few quotes from air traffic controllers: the question is not whether things are going wrong, but when. The VNV says it's all messed up. Dijksma: there is insufficient knowledge at the Ministry. Dutch Mill regularly closes military airspace due to staff shortages. And yet Mr. Dijkstra qualifies it as safe. No one else does. The O.V.V. says it's not unsafe at best. Mr. Paternotte qualified it with a six minus. No one gets on a plane. How can Mr Dijkstra say that it is safe? Does Mr Dijkstra agree with the OVV report, which is the same question that we asked D66........................................................................................................................................................ Look, everyone can talk about growth, no problem, but it's about decisions. Does Mr Dijkstra endorse the OVV report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u41	The recommendations of the OVV are taken on board. That's good, encouraging and necessary. The recommendations of the NLR are also taken on board, and there you can see that a lot of these things have already started or are in progress, so that's good. Flying is one of the safest ways to move. Flying from Schiphol Airport is safe, the final conclusion. It's just that it's never completely riskless. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u42	That's right. There are always risks, but that's not what the report is about. The report is about the fact that there are major systemic risks and that you cannot therefore speak of a safe situation, at most of 'it is not unsafe'. But it's not the same thing. Does Mr Dijkstra recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u43	There is no 100% risk free. But flying is a safe way of transporting you. Schiphol Airport is securely furnished, everyone meets the highest standards, everyone has an interest in it. We have no use for an incident, no matter how small or large. Every incident, no matter how small or large, is also reported, which is also important. You don't see that in other sectors either. It's just a safe airport. Except I can't guarantee that nothing ever goes wrong. I remember ten years ago that a Turkish Airlines aircraft suddenly stopped engines, after which that aircraft lay in such an empty field in the middle of winter. That kind of thing happens, but relatively, flying is safe and Schiphol sure. But we have to do everything we can to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u44	It seems to me that Mr Dijkstra has read a very different report than we have, namely a report from which the urgency does not really speak. That report I read makes it very clear that there are major risks due to operational practices within Schiphol. Yes, at the moment this has not led to accidents, but adjustments must be made very quickly. My question is therefore: why, according to Mr Dijkstra, was this report made by the OVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u45	The OVV makes a report in every accident, that's standard. They felt there wasn't enough to do with it in this room. They then decided on their own to make an integral report on safety at Schiphol. That's ahead of us. The most important conclusion that the OVV fortunately draws is that it is simply the truth that the safety of Schiphol has never been at stake in recent years, except for one incident. However, the OVV notes that the number of incidents, runway incursions and the like has not declined sufficiently in recent years. In short, it's safe, but things are still happening that you don't want. You also want to prevent it in the future and every day it is being worked on with man and power. Therefore, the recommendations of the OVV are very useful, as are the recommendations of the NLR. What I particularly like is that a lot of things have been set in motion a long time ago. 'Cause you don't have to compromise on safety. Of course, we can't rule out risks altogether, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u46	I'm glad to hear that we shouldn't compromise on safety. As far as I am concerned, the main conclusion of the OVV report is that before a decision on growth can be taken at all, security must first be in order. Mr Dijkstra said that the recommendations were accepted. It is wonderful to adopt recommendations, but should we not first have a measurement, an evaluation, a moment when we are sure that safety is in order, in line with the recommendations of the OVV, before there is any decision on growth of Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u47	The OVV is quite abstract in its recommendations. Taking over is good, but maybe it's easy. But we also have the task of checking whether that happens. Then you've got to be concrete, too. That is why I am so pleased with the NLR's report that came yesterday. It says very clearly what you do in terms of trial, what you have to do physically. For example, if you want 50,000 flights, it is useful to remove the rubber more often. That's the kind of thing we have to keep doing with each other. But Schiphol is just safe. In fact, Schiphol can easily have 50,000 extra flights, the NLR says, without doing anything about job change and that sort of thing. Flying autonomously also makes a further 3% per year safer. In short, we don't really have that much to complain about here. We just have to make sure we stay sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u48	I would like to continue with the conclusion drawn by Mr Dijkstra from the LNR report we received yesterday. My conclusion from that report is that we can't have 50,000 more flight movements very easily. It literally says, on page 4: "The results presented in this report are expected or limited growth above 500 thousand flight movements is possible safely. Detailed safety studies are needed to determine whether the proposed management measures are actually necessary and whether they will be sufficiently effective." It seems as if Mr Dijkstra has deliberately skipped this piece, does not refer to it and now says: those 50,000 flight movements can be done. Has Mr Dijkstra read this piece? What's his conclusion from this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u49	I refer in particular to the conclusions in Chapter 6, page 108. The Cabinet or Ministry, which is the client, has asked the LNR whether a limited growth in aviation, in this case 10%, requires additional measures and, if so, whether or not we are already in the process of doing so. It is then concluded that the study answers the question whether within the current operational concept of "Schiphol," as we are already doing with Schiphol, limited growth in the number of flight movements is possible without increasing the risk of an accident. The answer is yes, that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u50	I would also like Mr Dijkstra to reflect on what is written here. That is my question. I'd like to hear that. Furthermore, the LNR argues that with limited growth, 9 out of 36 accident categories can currently be negatively affected. I do not hear Mr Dijkstra on that either. I would like to invite Mr Dijkstra to reflect on this and to be a little more critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u51	Critically always. In the appendix, the appendix to the report that we had yesterday, you see exactly what happens to the crossing of the track, the runway, they are all English terms mid-air collisions, overshoot/undershoot, flight control and so on. You can do some things with the runway lighting or with the designation, so that planes don't run wrong, which is also useful. Fortunately, many of the issues listed in the annex already exist by research field, or they are in consideration. So I'm okay with it. It keeps us sharp, and we have to be sure. Once again, risk cannot be ruled out, but we must do everything we can to keep it safe and secure. I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u52	I want to use my third interruption to say something. More or less flight movements have nothing to do with the fact that a disaster can happen. Mr Dijkstra referred just now to the example of the Turkish plane in the meadow, which was partly crashed due to human failure, and a defective altimeter. So that has nothing to do with the safety of Schiphol. People once started shooting pigs because otherwise too many accidents would happen on the Veluwe, but as they fired more pigs, the number of accidents increased. So more or less flight movements have nothing to do with the fact that a disaster can ever happen. That can happen on the road or in the shower. Most people die in the shower, because of a fall from the stairs, and yet people keep building houses with stairs, and people keep showering, so we really have to stop about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u53	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u54	Yes, Mr Graus is right. There aren't that many flight movements, it's the chance of an accident. It's been mapped. You're absolutely right, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u55	It is good to hear that Mr Dijkstra also believes that measures are indeed needed to improve safety. In the written consultation, the Minister indicated that she would like to carry out a mid-term review in 2020 to see what progress has been made so far, before actually working on further growth above 500,000. Does Mr Dijkstra support the Minister in that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u56	I don't remember that statement like that, but maybe the Minister can respond to it. In itself, it is always a good development to continue to conduct research after recommendations....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That Schiphol cannot grow because it would be unsafe: since yesterday's NLR report that discussion has been out of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u57	I leave that last conclusion entirely on Mr Dijkstra's behalf, but I have a question for him. Mr Dijkstra points out that the report is very clear and that everything is going very well, but I would also like to draw attention to the recommendation on p. 3 to "assess the full impact on safety in crucial decisions on the growth of Schiphol." I'll ask the Minister the same question. There are a lot of subparticles that are being looked at, but the concern is that everyone will say that their own protocol has passed, that everything has been followed perfectly, but that the patient has died. Can Mr Dijkstra reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u58	As you said, I think it is going well, but we must never be satisfied with it. It's never good enough. So we must always strive for more. I don't know if you're paged. 3 of the OVV-report or the NLR-report quotes, but I'll leave that in the middle. Could you repeat your last point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u59	The question was whether we are not running the risk that everyone has their own particle for each other, but that overall the result is not great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u60	The OVV report is quite abstract, with general recommendations. The Minister can easily say that they are being taken over, but yes, they are watering down a bit, and that might have been a bit of the frustration of the OVV. But the NLR report, it makes me happy. I can do much more with that, because it is about an integrated approach to the safety of Schiphol, as the title also indicates. The OVV was just looking at air traffic, but it's much more than that. If someone is on the track, for example, to drive out Mr Van Raan's geese which pose a danger, that can also be dangerous. Those are human factors, and that's what we've been looking at. Not only the flying itself, the engines and the question of whether you are taking the right job, but also that kind of conditions you don't want to have luggage trains in certain places and human factors have been looked at, and that's why I'm happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u61	Mr Dijkstra has rightly addressed a number of points in the OVV report and put a number of questions to the Minister. I have an additional question for Mr Dijkstra, in particular about social security at the airport itself and the increased workload for, for example, those who have to monitor safety there. Is that also a concern of Mr Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u62	Yes, we have now discussed air safety in its entirety, including everything that is happening around it, and I am thinking of the departure hall and working conditions. These are, of course, all aspects that play a part. Absolutely. The whole chain, all the people who come there, all the people who work there, all the people who go from a to b via the airport: everything is a risk. Of course, security in relation to the threat of terrorism is also involved. You can't completely rule out those kinds of things, but you can do everything you can to prevent and ensure that you have everything in place to reduce the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u63	I very much agree with Mr Dijkstra. For example, this could lead to the adoption of a number of recommendations and an investment agenda, as additional investments may also be needed for safety and for more people with good working conditions. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u64	Then you'll have to tell me exactly what you're talking about. One of the measures taken by the cabinet in terms of security and entry is the commitment of more military officials to control. We've seen the misery that leads to long queues in the summer. That's another thing you need to avoid. Those are all aspects that play a part. Each time you have to look at who is responsible for this and who can deliver it. If it can't deliver enough, what else is needed, then who has what role and who pays it? But this is, of course, primarily with the airport and the airlines themselves. We have a framework for this. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of concerns. Some of these concerns have rightly been raised by colleagues. My main concern is that in recent years the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State has not actually directed the aviation dossier at all and that a lot has been delegated to that Alders table. That Alderstable, in turn, paid a great deal of attention to environmental and quality of life requirements and there were also many differences between them. We have always criticised this as a VVD, also because the decision-making of that Alderstable was not democratic and not transparent. Now that the coalition agreement has also included the need for further development of the growth of Schiphol and the need for a complete overhaul of airspace, I think it is also time for the Chamber to take a look at this aspect. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, aviation is an essential part of our economy. The demand for flying is also increasing and we want to continue to offer this space, under the condition that safety must be beyond doubt. To ensure safety, we need to look more closely at the operation in the infrastructure: how can we make it less complex? In the past, proposals have been made for this, such as the use of the fourth runway but also less use of taxi lanes, the less crossing of those lanes and fewer job changes. I understand that there are now sometimes 14 job changes a day or even 16, of which only two occur because of the weather and sometimes 14 due to noise. It's all risky again. So we have to make choices about that. So no more weird turns for pilots, because they only hear about the course 15 minutes before the departure, and no changes just before the departure. We simply want clarity in order to limit that human factor, that chance of error. We must also prevent the Schiphol Environment Council from asking for approval every time, which prevents the renewal that is needed. As far as we are concerned, the time of endless poldering is over. We've got to get the lead back and Mr. Alders can do something else after the summer. We are still talking about the future of aviation and specifically the growth at Schiphol Airport. The then Secretary of State was very cumbersome with regard to the trial. I understand that, but the coalition agreement does offer some room for manoeuvre now, because the environmental space that has been booked since the entry into the Alders Agreement in 2008 can be used half for residents and half for sustainable growth. So I look forward to the environmental impact assessments promised for Schiphol. I also want to know about the environmental gains that have been made, and I want to be able to book them in. Finally, ILT and air traffic control. Previously, the VVD pointed out the lack of knowledge and expertise in the field of aviation, particularly at the ILT. My questions are whether the ILT is sufficiently equipped to carry out these tasks and responsibilities properly, how we actually do this, whether we are also able to tackle drones and such things, which are sometimes undesirablely introduced into the airport, with legislation or other measures, and whether air traffic control is also sufficiently operational. After all, this is a monopolist and we really depend on it for the reclassification of airspace. Can the Minister say anything about capacity? I have seen that the Minister has taken the first steps in this direction, but perhaps she can say a little more about it, because the people and the expertise of air traffic control are really essential in order to further ensure safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u65	Mrs Kröger, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u66	My final question concerns the participation of local residents. Mr Dijkstra has spoken very movingly over the last period of time about the residents who need to be involved in the Lelystad Airport trial, and I have seen that he has visited the region many times. In fact, however, he is now saying that taking back direction by the Ministry, which we are certainly in favour of as far as he is concerned, means that residents of Schiphol have no further say in the decisions on the growth of air traffic. Is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u67	Mrs Kröger compares two situations which are not very similar. The neighbors of Lelystad have never, so to speak, had a plane above their heads before, and that is what is threatening to happen now. At Schiphol Airport, you're dealing with a whole process that's been going on for decades. At the Alders table there are now people from whom I do not want to say that they are grey old men. But you have to ask yourself to what extent the people sitting there are sufficiently representative of what is needed. Isn't there other, more modern ways of participation possible than the way things are now, for example digital or something else? I think we need to restore the balance between the local residents, then I am talking about the Schiphol Environment Council, the companies and the airlines. We need to weigh that better here. Now it seems that local residents have everything to say, so there are job changes every time that have to be avoided. That doesn't help safety. I therefore call for a review of the participation in the use of Schiphol. You cannot satisfy everyone and you must also see if people are still representative of what they were adopted for at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u68	Last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u69	How many more questions can I ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u70	This is the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u71	I'll save it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u72	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. I now turn to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u73	Let's take off. I'm referring to the Speaker's Chair, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to the action groups that managed to postpone the decision for Lelystad. I like to start with a quote: growth of Schiphol is necessary, otherwise the Netherlands will fly backwards. That's what top man Nijhuis said this week. The sector determines the policy and the Ministry facilitates. This requires everything: climate, the environment, the interests of local residents, both human and animal, and also public confidence. Security around the airport is at stake. The OVV states that risks need to be structurally reduced now and in the future, before we decide on possible growth. That's what the O.V.V. report says. And what happens? A day before the debate we receive a thick report from the NLR which states that the number of aircraft movements can increase without increasing the risk of an accident per year. So on the one hand we have an independent report that says: stop, we point to a pattern! The report states that there is a pattern in which, for economic reasons, interested parties accept new risks each time and then stack them up to measure to control them, thus creating new risks. On the other hand, there will be a report, an analysis commissioned by the Ministry, with the aim of enabling further growth. A better illustration of the pattern outlined by the OVV is hardly conceivable. Does the Minister agree with us? The Minister is certainly prepared to give a comprehensive response to this NLR report and also to ask the OVV to do so. I'll check on the date of receipt of this report. We've figured out how it went by now. We've had some informal contact. However, we would like to have a brief account of the facts in writing of exactly how that happened. We believe that there are two fundamental problems in this dossier. Aviation policy has largely been given over to the sector. We have seen this before, for example in the agricultural sector. That's where Minister Schouten has to clean up one mess after the other since she arrived. The OVV drew ruthless conclusions. I'll mention a few. The State is ultimately responsible for safety at Schiphol Airport, but has largely delegated responsibility to the sector parties. The Ministry does not direct either on content or on the overall outcome of the security efforts of individual parties. The Ministry has no comprehensive picture of safety around Schiphol and cannot verify whether the main safety objectives are met. Mr. Chairman. These are deadly conclusions, because in practice, the security was in the hands of LVNL. He warned in 2007 that safety was under pressure. The LVNL is also really pressured to handle as many flights as possible, the OVV states. Due to increasing pressure, LVNL can be forced to choose between two options that each have an increased risk. In the supervisory sector, austerity is not enough expertise to ensure that supervision is properly carried out. The pressure from the sector is unprecedented. Once again, it is stated that it is necessary to review the agreements on the use of the fourth runway, on the backs of the residents who, by presenting growth as a fact, have to choose between safety and noise pollution. This kind of dilemma helps the Minister to create. I'd like a reflection on this. Then there's the chance of bird-fights. Years of policies to control populations have made no difference. The number of geese has been 400,000 for ten years. And yet it goes on and on. How does the Minister implement our adopted motion to seriously pursue animal-friendly policy to prevent bird clashes? Does the Minister agree, for example, to take further measures in the Schiphol Airport Classification Decision to prevent bird-catching farming or to allow Schiphol to pay a higher contribution to farmers' subsidies? Then there is the biggest problem: the growth of aviation. In our view, this is no longer sustainable. My party has repeatedly pointed out that aviation growth does not go hand in hand with achieving climate goals. By bringing aviation back to a manageable size, two things, climate and safety, have suddenly been resolved. As far as we are concerned, in aviation too, what seemed to be a good idea 70 years ago is now completely out of control. As far as we're concerned, it's time for code red in aviation. A pass at the place, back to 480,000 movements, because that was the number of aircraft movements in which the report of the OVV was made. Meanwhile, the counter is at least 496,000. Some even say the number goes over it. In short, beware of the place, back to 480,000 movements and first a fundamental discussion about the smaller role in aviation. The necessary steps must be taken together with the climate minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about safety at Schiphol. But the news of the day is, of course, the postponement of Lelystad Airport. As GroenLinks, we are pleased that the Minister, under pressure from residents, opts for postponement. But let us be absolutely clear: this is not a solution. Hundreds of thousands of people suffer from low-fly routes. The Minister is finally taking time for the procedures, but does not solve the problem for the people living around. As far as we are concerned, the lack of direction from the Ministry is a common thread in all the debates on aviation. Schiphol is on the buttons and is going hard for the growth of the sector. The Ministry does not send, but is process manager and facilitates the growth ambition. Last Friday the weather hit, when the gentlemen of Schiphol and KLM showed their typical bokito behavior by shouting the loudest that Schiphol should grow, especially if Lelystad Airport doesn't go on. I saw a press release from Schiphol during the debate saying that we want to go back to the 500,000 border by 2020. I would like a harsh statement from the Minister, here in the Chamber, that the border is absolutely not under discussion. KLM and Schiphol speak for their turn as far as we're concerned. It is really up to politics to balance interests for the whole of the Netherlands. We're not here for Schiphol, but Schiphol is here for us. The interests of Schiphol should be balanced against the interests of local residents, climate and nature. Today we are talking about an absolute prerequisite: safety. The safety of passengers, residents and employees must always be number one. I hope that's a shared perspective of everyone in this Chamber. And that safety is at stake, according to the report of the OVV, especially if more is flown. I have a number of specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u76	Madam President, I am pleased to hear this. I know that GroenLinks attaches great importance to nature. Birds have often migrated massively from nature reserve the Oostvaardersplassen, but at Schiphol they land massively. That's the fun part: aviation, nature and animals go together very well. I would advise you to go with K1, K2 or K3, the bird watchman of Schiphol. Then you see the most beautiful animals, like foxes. There's a lot of stuff out there. Those animals aren't afraid of planes and the sound at all. Also, they don't suffer from the kerosene. They are moving towards it, contrary to something that GroenLinks calls very much, the Oostvaardersplassen. There animals die of hunger because they cannot migrate climatologically and are not fed, causing the birds to move away massively. So I think it's important to write this down. GroenLinks must realise that Schiphol is a very beautiful nature reserve, also for animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u77	I would like to thank Mr Graus for this point. I think you can see in width that the growth of aviation in different places and especially in low-flying routes has a huge impact, including on nature. There are several scientific studies on this. This involves both issues as well as nitrogen depositions, noise and disruption of breeding areas. So I think this relationship is a little more complex than Mr Graus sketches. But I would like to go with Mr Graus around Schiphol in search of foxes and geese.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u78	This is my last interruption, Mr. Chairman. What matters is that they really have to blow big, they want to scare those birds out of there. It's just that those birds are all... There's something wrong with the microphone, but it doesn't matter. I share what Mr Van Raan said from the Animal Party that we must do everything we can to prevent animals, but we have talked about this on a number of occasions, including with predecessors. So it's not like animals are in trouble. Look, there's a really nice tree at Breda's on the highway. It's been there since I don't know how long. That's a perfectly healthy tree and it's in the middle of two highways. We must get rid of the fact that animals or nature are affected by cars or aircraft, because that is not the case. If you'd like to come with me, I'd love to. Then I'll show you that animals aren't afraid of planes at all, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u79	What am I saying yes to? But yes, I think I would like to go with Mr Graus to a number of locations where the tension and the pressure of air and car traffic on nature are very hard to see. It is great that there is a fox or goose to see, but let us not wipe out all the scientific research into the impact of aviation, and also of car traffic, on nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u81	Some specific questions, that's where I ended up. GroenLinks has repeatedly expressed concerns, including in the recent budget debate, about the increasing number of tasks being added to the ILT, while there has been considerable savings in the past period. From the sector there are now serious doubts as to whether within the ILT knowledge and skills are in order to carry out the enforcement task properly. It is really crucial that there is strong enforcement by an external party with sufficient resources and legal powers. What steps has the Minister taken or is it going to take to ensure that the ILT is in a position both in terms of capacity and knowledge to play this role? When are safe targets set? The next major concern is air traffic control capacity. After the LVNL earlier, this weekend the military air traffic controllers rang the bell: understaffing which sometimes shuts down the airspace, even for the trauma helicopter. The OVV report also points to air traffic control capacity as a problem. What is being done in concrete terms, particularly in view of the great need for the reclassification of airspace? How do we ensure that this capacity is in order? Then the discussions on growth, not only from Schiphol Airport but also from regional airports. In particular, the airspace of Lelystad and Rotterdam interfere very much with the airspace of Schiphol. That's why the minister wants to fly low in Lelystad. In Rotterdam they already fly structurally very low above a residential area, but then routes cross each other. I would like to see, and I hope for a commitment from the Minister, that the OVV will be asked to investigate how the analysis made for Schiphol will change if Lelystad and Rotterdam are included and how the growth of Schiphol also affects the environment and the situation of these two regional airports and vice versa. So a broader security analysis including regional airports. Finally, the report that suddenly appeared on the agenda yesterday. I share the comments of my colleagues that this is not the way in which the Chamber is informed about such important studies. NLR has looked at the increase in the safety risk of growth per flight movement. According to the opinion, we will solve these by building more infrastructure for even more capacity, but with each additional aircraft there is a chance that one will fall on a flat. Precisely on the underestimation of environmental risks was a lot of criticism in the OVV report. It looked at the risks for aircraft and not for residents. I shall come back to the subject that every debate has so far, namely trust. It is an important signal that the Minister has postponed Lelystad for a year. Much confidence has been damaged in the past period. I really hope the Minister will do everything in his power to restore that confidence. As far as we are concerned, this is a step in the right direction and a very clear line on no growth Schiphol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u82	I just heard Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks say that every additional device increases the risk, but that is simply not true. What do you base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u83	There is an autonomous risk, wherever the plane is flying in the world. And there is the situation at Schiphol with its infrastructure and the additional risks it entails. When more flight movements are made, the autonomous risk of something happening also grows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u84	I can only conclude that this is not true and, in particular, that you have not yet read the report. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u85	Well, Mr. Dijkstra, I did read the report, and this is the conclusion I'm drawing from it. I absolutely do not share the VVD's conclusion that the NLR gives a go for more growth at Schiphol. That seems to me to be a rather naive interpretation of the NLR report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u86	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Now I miss Mr Van Raan. No, he's already been. Sorry. I miss him at the interrupting microphone because he interrupts a lot, I think. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I look forward to an interesting excursion with Mr Graus and Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u88	Would you like to come with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u89	Well, yeah. Maybe there will be wolves out there in a few years. That's my individual hobby. I really like the arrival of the wolves. As far as I am concerned, this is an enrichment of Dutch nature, but that is not what this debate is about. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about safety at Schiphol. Today and yesterday many topical and urgent issues have been raised about aviation, but today I am really restricting myself to the safety and the report of the OVV. That is what the debate is about. As far as we are concerned, the Minister has made a good decision by postponing Lelystad. We will continue the debate on this shortly. Mr. Chairman. Safety at Schiphol Airport, safety first: that is of course of the utmost importance. It's just been said. Like many colleagues here, I was allowed to pay a work visit to the air traffic controllers. I was really impressed, because then you see all those planes and you see planes landing and taking off all the time. It is an incomprehensible web for me: you see all kinds of movements in the air, you see all kinds of planes coming and you see all kinds of planes leaving. And then you see that professionals at the highest level are working on safety every day and night. I think it's important to really say that these professionals stand for that every day. However, the OVV does make a number of important recommendations to us. I would like to take away the hint of insecurity at Schiphol Airport about this was just a moment ago. Because that's not what the report says. It says Schiphol is safe, but there are definitely a number of improvement points. The number of flight movements at Schiphol Airport has grown considerably in recent years. What we need to pay attention to is that the integrated security approach is good and is coming together. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for her views on the role of the Ministry in particular. The OVV also points out that the Ministry has outsourced too much to the sector in recent years. How does the Minister see its role in the inclusion of this improvement agenda and the inclusion of all these recommendations from the OVV? Does she have any planning in mind for that? Mr. Chairman. Then the inspections. It's just been said. Are there enough people? Is there sufficient capacity to enable the inspection to fulfil its role properly? Of course safety is not just about Schiphol, but in this case it is about Schiphol. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna head over to social security at Schiphol. That too is a point from the OVV report. In its analysis, the OVV states that further growth at Schiphol Airport could increase the potential risk of incidents. The NLR states in yesterday's report that the risk of an incident will not increase with growth to 550,000 flight movements. Mr Dijkstra just pointed out the same thing. I am very curious how the Minister sees the difference between these two analyses, those of the OVV and those of the NLR. Then there is social security, because safety also has to do with the employees at Schiphol. In recent years we have received serious signals from, among others, the FNV, but also from the employees at Schiphol themselves about the increased workload on the people responsible for safety, but also on the people responsible for baggage handling. They experience work pressure because there are too few people, but also because of the degree of uncertainty they have. The number of flexible contracts at Schiphol Airport is high. As far as I am concerned, the FNV rightly points out that this also affects safety, because the best thing you do is work with regular people who have a certain position and a fixed contract and who have been trained, trained and interacted with each other to ensure security at the airport itself every day, day and night, for us. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this: how does she see her role in terms of working conditions at Schiphol? As far as we are concerned, they really need to be improved by combating flexibilisation and attracting more people. I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u91	Thank you, Madam President. It's gonna be a great field trip. You may also want to join us at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u92	Depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u93	Maybe we should all do that; that's good for the team spirit too. First of all, I'm very proud of Schiphol. I am delighted that my colleague, Mr Van Dijk, did the same. I am very proud of Schiphol, the KLM and our air traffic controllers. I had that myself: I was insanely proud of those boys and ladies, who you saw so busy with a great sense of responsibility and under very high pressure. We should be proud of that. But we are all very proud of the pilots, the emergency services, the bird watchmen I have already mentioned, and the security and handling staff. On 6 April 2017, the Research Council for Security issued the report Security Air Traffic Airport Schiphol. We have all been able to read that. I think it is very important that the report notes that there is no evidence that safety at Schiphol Airport is insufficient. I am not, of course, an expert security officer or anything like that, so we must be able to rely on that report. I trust what has been sent to us. I also think it is important that the main sector parties work closely together in that security platform. I know that, following the report of the OVV, the Minister started a strategic safety consultation with the Netherlands, Schiphol and KLM, among others. We are, of course, kept regularly informed of this, so we will follow that up. Many questions have already been asked, so I am going to wait and see in the light of the administrative burden reduction that the Chamber always wants. More studies have been carried out and the results of these other studies have shown that in practice the rules on the use of jobs combined with the renewal of the fleet and the overall safety of aviation have a positive impact on the safety of the environment. This is important for the PVV, but I believe that all Members of Parliament, my group, are also in agreement on this. I would like to stress once again that there must be as little nuisance as possible for residents and security must be guaranteed. I'm going to co-sign a motion in a moment, if necessary, which will ask for it again. Safety also applies to passengers and the crew; we must not forget that. That's what we need to make sure of. It's always got to be a priority. Furthermore, aircraft are going to become quieter and even safer. As MPs, we all keep a close eye on that. We'll be well informed. We do a lot of work visits for that, too. I once, years ago, pointed out the exodus of air traffic controllers to Secretary of State Mansveld at the time. I wasn't put up as some kind of a rioter at the time, but it was denied, when it really was, because I knew that from experts on the subject and also from people who have gone away to Gulf States, for example, where they can often earn more. That's what worries me. That was denied at the time. The lack of simultaneous use of jobs by imposing barriers increases the workload. If Jan was in the hat, you'd think that if you used more jobs at the same time, it'd be harder, but it's not. If air traffic controllers have more choice in job use, they believe that this, at least the people I have spoken to, will reduce the workload and increase safety. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to this, because this is often contradicted. We have requested a major aviation debate on Schiphol, but certainly also on the EIA Lelystad, on which I was also the first; we will find out tomorrow that I too must be the first speaker, even though it is being pulled apart, because I was the first to ask for it. I once tabled a motion supported by the Chamber on a future-proof and competitive national aviation plan. The minister's predecessor sent something that didn't really look like the national aviation plan I asked for in that motion. How is this new minister going to implement my motion for a future-proof and competitive national aviation plan? I would also ask the Minister to make a commitment so that I do not have to make a motion on it. During one of the work visits it appeared that there was a cloud altimeter missing. It seems to cost several tens of thousands of euros. That's public money, and that's not nothing. That also has to do with the foundation. Would the Minister like to see if that money for that cloud altitude meter can be found anywhere? There is also a 'blind spot' somewhere in IJmuiden, which seems to have been solved with several tens of thousands of euros. So maybe the minister can promise to investigate this. My last sentence is that more people are still dying in unsafe bathrooms and houses with stairs that continue to be built as well as by aviation. I mentioned in an interruption debate with Mr Dijkstra that we should not cause too much panic. As long as the homo sapiens exist, people and animals will always die, including from accidents and disasters. Mr. Paternotte, tell me. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, you have to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u94	Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u95	I'd like to go back to a bit for the bathrooms. Mr. Graus believes that Schiphol should be able to move on to 600,000 flight movements, which means 20%. You say that this should be done with as little nuisance as possible, but you also say that jobs should be used more simultaneously. On the contrary, the use of the runways is very much aimed at reducing the nuisance. Then how do you minimise the inconvenience, when you want to add 100,000 jobs at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u96	First of all, I must say that Schiphol has been there for a long time. Most people who have moved to the airport often also have advantages. You choose to live around a very old and large airport. Now we're gonna spread the nuisance over millions more people who didn't ask to live near an airport. I think that is a very important point. If you send very much on one job, it doesn't help safety. At least I understood that, but I'd like to wait for a response. If you can use more jobs on more flights, you will of course also relieve certain neighbourhoods. That's how you see it. Think about it. We really need to wait and see what's going on with the gliding landings and the quieter planes. Time will tell. But what's most important to me is that most people, including the people who complained, went to live near the airport when the airport was already there. I don't want people getting hurt right now who never chose to be. You may not want to live near an airport, but I do. I hope one day I'll be able to look at planes from behind the geraniums. Everyone has to know that, but you also have a free choice to leave and to live somewhere. But you can't impose it on people who didn't choose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u97	I lived in Buitenveldert, with a beautiful view of the Buitenveldertbaan. I now live under the Kaagbaan approach route, which I can see less of. But my question was actually about those smart boys and girls in that tower. You have the idea that there is a different load at the same time and that this is better, but of course they have the task of ensuring as little noise as possible. There is a very clever system behind that, which is closely followed by the people in the tower. They say it leads to more noise pollution when you start using orbits simultaneously. They also say that 100,000 flights will, of course, also cause more noise pollution. Then I come to the question of how you are going to ensure that your ambitions for massive growth lead to less nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u98	If you had asked, I would have sent you straight back to your seat, because of course that is something no one can do. I am not God, the Almighty. That's why I've always written: as little nuisance as possible. But it is logical that every growth should always create more nuisance. I'm not gonna fool anybody about this. I'm not gonna do that. That's just a fact. So I'm not going to argue with you in that. No one else could, except perhaps God, the Almighty, but I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u99	We've established that we both don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Graus. No, you're through, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u101	I've got four.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u102	Yes, this was your last question. But you still have a second term. I now turn to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u103	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on handling the aviation dossier over the last four months. There were major challenges in this file. This morning, I think, she gave a good press conference on how she has brought together the content, the involvement of citizens and all interests, because there are a lot of different interests in aviation in the Netherlands. Hopefully we can continue that line. Mr. Chairman. The Safety Research Council, the OVV, says that there is no evidence that the airport is currently unsafe, but parties need to reduce the safety risks structurally. Around Schiphol's security situation many things play a role. I would like to mention the most important ones: the location of runways, the operating pressure of air traffic controllers, the hub function of Schiphol with the peaks, the noise preference for runway use and, of course, the Schiphol Environment Council, where safety is not always high on the agenda, but noise is. This combination of things means that safety at Schiphol Airport deserves our full attention. Mr. Chairman. At Schiphol, we do not see a party that really takes full final responsibility for air traffic at the airport. That should be the minister, but the OVV believes that the Ministry is acting as a process manager instead of claiming final responsibility. The OVV considers that the Minister places too much responsibility on the sector parties. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. How does the Minister intend to discharge the final responsibility? The emphasis is on "how." We would like to emphasise that each body has its own legal and social responsibility to put safety on 1. According to the OVV, the Inspection Environment and Transport has too little knowledge and resources to monitor effectively. That's harsh criticism of an inspection under the Ministry. The Minister's sketching a very different picture. I quote: 'ILT is currently able, with the necessary prioritization, to carry out its tasks adequately'. What does the Minister think of this criticism by the OVV and can she explain why she believes that adequate supervision is being carried out by the ILT? Then there are the sector parties, such as Schiphol, the KLM and air traffic control. The OVV is critical of this, because it is difficult for them to guarantee safety fully and collectively. There is cooperation in the Security Platform Schiphol, but this cooperation is too non-binding and reactive and takes place mainly at operational level, and not at strategic level. Has the Minister discussed this with the sector parties and, if so, what was the outcome? Mr. Chairman. The OVV comes with a series of recommendations. The OVV considers that the parties concerned should make structural improvements to the safety of air traffic at and around Schiphol Airport. For example, the OVV believes that changing job combinations and crossing jobs should be reduced. What instrument does the Minister or one of the sector parties have for this? How's she gonna do this? Sector stakeholders should develop a common vision of security that includes explicit targets and develop them in a safety management system. It is essential that the Schiphol Safety Platform is given a formal status, in which both operational and strategic decisions are taken. Our question to the Minister is whether she will accept all the recommendations. Are there any recommendations from the OVV that she immediately accepts? What is the low-hanging fruit, because what can be done today should not wait until tomorrow? The CDA is particularly interested in measures at operational level that can be implemented immediately. It is important that everyone, including the pilots, be involved in the Platform. Is the Minister prepared to make that possible? Mr. Chairman. We are proud of our national mainport Schiphol. It is good to hear that there is no evidence that the airport is currently unsafe. I think we should all take that picture away. But we won't sit back. Safety is a continuous process that must be secured up to the capillaries of all the organizations involved in thinking and doing. The CDA does not want to rely on the current security situation at Schiphol. In particular, there is a lack of a joint strategic security vision. The CDA wants an ambition and a vision for security that fits with a more sustainable growth scenario of Schiphol, but also from other regional airports such as Rotterdam, Eindhoven and Lelystad. The Minister is and will remain ultimately responsible. The most important question is how is she going to fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u104	Mr Van Raan, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch has just made a flaming speech about how serious it is about the safety risks. He mentioned a number of major problems and he wonders how they will be solved. I'm sure he's aware that the report was written on 480,000 aircraft movements. Now we're at 496,000. Some say we're over that already. So does Mr Amhaouch also agree with the main conclusion: no decisions on further growth until everything is resolved? And if it's true that the report was written on 480,000 aircraft movements, then you can't continue up to 500,000 aircraft movements without solving everything first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u106	Mr. Chairman. I think we're at 497,000 now, but that's the numbers. I think we have made clear agreements within the ORS that 500,000 movements can take place at Schiphol Airport. That's 1. The OVV says that security is not at stake at the moment. We have to, importantly, make sure it doesn't erode. So keep improving every day. Then the NLR also says: we have identified a number of risks, 9 out of 36 that need to be addressed. There are 18 relevant to Schiphol. There are instruments or measures to deal with them. Then there should be a small growth for Schiphol, they talk about 10% of the population. So that's the overall plan that needs to be implemented when you're talking about the growth of Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u107	No, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u108	But, Mr President, that is not an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u109	I would ask Mr Amhaouch to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u110	Then he'll have to repeat the question. I believe that I have given a serious answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u111	Then the question must be very brief. Mr Van Raan, and repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u112	A report, written at 480,000 movements, serious security issues need to be solved, now nearly 500,000. That doesn't mean until you take the report seriously. Does Mr Amhaouch do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u113	I think Mr Van Raan wants to go backwards. We're almost out of 500,000 now. There are all kinds of safety recommendations. We're gonna have to pick it up. I also said: with everything that can be done today, we must not wait until tomorrow. I think that is the approach, where we ask the Minister: how is she going to do it operationally? But also: how is she going to do that strategically with a vision of the future, so that she can secure all those parties with a platform?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u114	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. 500,000 flight movements, that's the deal until 2020. I think we have all seen the press conferences and press releases of Schiphol and KLM, which are already pleading for growth: if Lelystad does not continue, then we must grow. The deal is up to 2020. We're not gonna interfere with that. I hope the CDA agrees with that. But does the CDA group agree with us that all plans, all discussions on growth of Schiphol should be in the refrigerator until all the recommendations of the OVV have been implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u115	I don't think there should be anything in the fridge, and we need to move fast. We have also discussed this in the AO Aviation and the Minister has also promised to proceed with it, for example how we will implement the 50/50 rule. How are we gonna do that? That's not an easy rule. We know, we've made agreements for 2020, 500,000 flights. We thought Lelystad could open early. The Minister said this morning that this is not going to happen in 2019, but hopefully in 2020. That also creates space, so in total we should not make a pass in the place, we should not put anything in the refrigerator, we should act vigorously so that we can both grow Schiphol sustainably within the agreements we have made and of course listen to the people. I think that's what happened in the east of the country. We will do that carefully with an opening of Lelystad, hopefully by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u116	Sustainable growth in aviation is just nonsense at the moment, is an illusion, it simply cannot be. It's been proven. It's been investigated. But that's not what my question is about. My question again... I hear Mr Amhaouch from the CDA say: nothing should be in the refrigerator, we should not make a pass in the place. We say that this must be done until all the recommendations have been implemented. I thought I heard Mr Amhaouch say that he felt the same way. Now he's not saying that. So what's the CDA's point of view? Will we continue with growth plans, with discussions on growth of Schiphol, while all these recommendations have not yet been implemented? Or are we waiting until all the recommendations are implemented by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u117	Mr. Chairman. Let's get some things straight. Otherwise I will be put in my mouth words that I have not said. Because Mr Laçin says that sustainable growth is not possible at all. I think we have talked about in the AO Aviation that new generations of aircraft are coming each time that are more economical, quieter. This has to do with sustainable growth. Soon we will even have a technical briefing on sustainable aircraft. Safety was also discussed in the NLR report. Safety improves by 4% each year, although aviation increases by 2% each year. There's improvement. New planes are getting safer. New, safe measures are being taken. So that an image is sketched that if we grow something, it all gets much worse, is absolutely not at stake. We are sticking to the coalition agreement. There are agreements made in which way we can grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u118	This is indeed an enthusiastic argument about safety at Schiphol. That is of the utmost importance. Safety also has to do with employees who feel secure and have enough time to do the job. There are many signs that the workload of many employees at Schiphol Airport is very high. Does Mr Amhaouch see these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u119	Yes. I have been to Schiphol Airport myself, to the air traffic controllers both in the tower and in the main room. It's all over the place. It also applies to the pilot discussion. I believe it is the responsibility of the organisations, who are responsible for ensuring that people can do the right work and run the right services and that they are well paid for the important work they do at Schiphol Airport for our safety. If that is the issue, it must be addressed on that integrated platform. That applies to the pilots, to the air traffic controllers and to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u120	Mr Amhaouch is now putting it all back to Schiphol, but at the same time I think he is right to say that the government must also have a strong role in Schiphol and in safety matters. So as far as I'm concerned, too, when it comes to working conditions. Does Mr Amhaouch see a direction for the Ministry to put that on the map and to actually talk about it with Schiphol and the companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u121	I think we are on the same page, because the essence of my speech has been that the Minister should take control over the various parties. It must show ambition and vision. But we have also said that each organisation is legally and socially obliged to put quality at number one. In the field of working conditions, it is not the Minister's call, but the LVNL, Schiphol or any other company. But we expect the full vision of the Minister, as well as a horizontal guarantee across all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u122	I would have liked to ask a question about sustainable growth. I thought that was a contradiction, but you explained to my colleague earlier that you see this in the context of the aircraft. I would like to comment on working conditions. We had an invitation from the FNV some time ago to discuss freight handling and working conditions with various groups at Schiphol. One of the concerns was that the control, which the government is responsible for, at Schiphol Airport is most difficult. You don't just walk into Schiphol. That is also good, because safety is important. This means that a check must always be announced in advance. Then suddenly the roster is complete. How does Mr Amhaouch see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u123	I'm very honest with it: that's just what I'm overasked with. I don't know the details and I don't know how it goes with that kind of control. In my view, we have an agreement that inspections should be given every opportunity to do their job. So I've been asked a little bit about that. What I do think is important is why everyone is so suspicious, in the sense that we cannot be sustainable with aviation. We used to have coal and diesel locomotives on the tracks. We had gas cars. Everything has become more sustainable. We have said: we are still going from road to rail because it is more sustainable. Why doesn't anyone believe in sustainable aviation? Why does no one believe that we get planes on hydrogen or that we can get planes that can also fly electric? Trials are taking place. Why is everyone so suspicious? Humanity has never stood still.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u124	I'm very glad you're very open about being overasked. Then I will certainly pass this on to the Minister to get a response. I very much believe that we will achieve better things in the future. I have indeed had the discussion with a number of technicians about electric flying and so on. So I certainly see opportunities here, but for the time being I do see a lot of particulate matter and kerosene emissions and so on. I still think that the word sustainable growth is a contradiction at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u125	That's right. We can't do everything in one day. We could have said in the Netherlands today, together with all of us, that everyone can only have one car left. Or: each company only has two trucks left. But neither do we. It is precisely because we see that this does not affect the environment and residents as much, that we are trying to innovate and improve in order to grow sustainably. It is important that there are plans and that the plans are implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u126	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've received the research report from the Security Research Council and it's going well at Schiphol Airport, you might say. The safety is not at stake, but we were somewhat behind the facts in terms of enforcement and action, reactive rather than proactive. And one of our concerns was that none of the parties drew integrated security management towards them, not even the Ministry. I have just said it in the discussion with Mr Paternotte: is this not a concern? Doesn't it mean that everyone looks at it from their own square centimeters and says "we have it right" but that the overall risk is insufficient? Can the Minister give her views on this? Is the direction at the Ministry very good in that respect? An integral safety system was to be started and yesterday we already received the first step. 50PLUS was a bit shocked by the remark: safety must be taken into account in decision-making on possible growth above 500,000 flight movements. Must be taken into account! Well, as far as we're concerned, we can't do that at all. Safety is not a prerequisite, but must always be the first starting point. Does the Minister agree with us? That must always precede any decision we make. In any case, this is what the OVV said: risks must be avoided rather than assumed and they must be mitigated. So prevention is better than cure. And again, does the Minister also underline this conclusion from that report? Somewhere in 2018 the system around the ISMS, young boy, should be worked out. We hope that this concrete plan of action will be taken. If so, what step should be taken when? And what more results do we need to achieve? Are we getting insight into all this? And in what way does it guarantee and guarantee that it is truly integral in character? Again, that is our great concern. Is the neighbouring airport Lelystad involved in this? Also of 50PLUS a compliment to the Minister today that she has indicated that we are stopping for a moment to take a good look at Lelystad and to ensure that everyone is included in the decision-making process. Thank you for that! You might wonder how far we can go if we want to continue to ensure security. It has just been said by a number of parties: the number of flight movements can be somewhat larger. Those 500,000, which we would achieve by 2020, have already been achieved. And the airport Lelystad we wanted to open as soon as possible.Luckily there is now some rest.But in the coming years the number of flights is going to increase. But what is feasible? Doesn't airspace just get hidden at some point and is it desirable? When we ask that question, we actually answer it ourselves. So, again, how are health risks from local residents involved and how does the Ministry improve its supervisory role and expertise around Schiphol Airport? And is the Minister going to be publicly accountable every year? The colleague of the SP also asked about that conclusion/recommendation number 8. Public accountability about the role of the final responsible for the safety of Schiphol: are we going to do so annually? How often is the Minister going to do that and does she intend to follow that recommendation? Is there going to be an independent committee that monitors progress and has the trust and involvement of local residents? Or is that being invested at the Schiphol Environment Council? What is the Minister doing about the shortage of personnel caused by the pressure on military air traffic control? What influence does that have on safety? That's a worried kid we read in the papers about. I'd like to hear a reaction to that, too. Perhaps the Minister could also take a moment to reflect on the large difference in payment. Why are there holes so big? Maybe that'll help a little. Mr. Chairman. Support for Mr Van Dijk's speech. We have a number of questions about those runway incursions, events where an aircraft or a person is in an unprotected zone. A question has already been asked about this by Mr Dijkstra. Those cases have increased. Could you just consider what that means for a moment? Are we going to go into that further? What problems will this cause and what are you going to do about it? What approach should we adopt to this end? Can the Minister tell us what enforceable targets and standards have now been set for the enforcement of the airport and its surroundings? I told you, it's not easy for supervisors to get in there. How much has been invested in substantive inspections and in the knowledge of supervisors? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u128	I take it you've finished your speech? You've been over your speaking time for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u129	Oh, shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u130	We don't have a locker there for nothing to warn you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u131	Yeah, I thought I'd ignore that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u132	Yeah, that's what I thought. I'll let you finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u133	I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees with us that we should certainly make much more use of alternative forms of land transport, such as trains, at medium distance, because this is much better for air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u134	I have listened with great interest to your speech, thank you. I heard a lot of questions, lots of sensible questions, too. But I am also curious about the position of 50PLUS itself. Then what do you think should happen with, for example, those holiday flights that many 50+ people like to use, because they might want to fly to the sun on Friday or Saturday or last week? You're not gonna take that away from them, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u135	In fact, I hope to make use of that next Saturday, from Schiphol, though. No, as far as we're concerned, we have an agreement. We attach great importance to a reliable government and that agreement is that we are on 500,000 flight movements. We are in favour of all air traffic and holiday flights, but we are after looking at how we can better classify airspace. So we are very sorry that the Minister says: I need until 2023 to re-assess that. That must be done much sooner, because only then will we be able to make a better balance. So we are not opposed to opening other airports, but it must be in the order that is stated: first redistribution and then we can see what effects this has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u136	Thank you. Last question from Mr Remco Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u137	We saw a decision today about Lelystad. That's not happening right now. We've also seen that it's safe. 50PLUS believes that the deal about the 500,000... Well, that deal's indivisible, isn't it? One of the conditions was that Lelystad would open, but that is not the case now. Are you willing to look at a small plus on those 500,000 as they are now recorded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u138	As far as we are concerned, we do not want to forget the serious complaints of all the residents of Schiphol. We have already heard a lot of effects from our Provincial State Members here in South Holland, who are very worried about the nuisance, not only from Schiphol, but also from Rotterdam. I believe that everything must be seen in conjunction with each other and that is why we are once again arguing in favour of this and I hope that Mr Dijkstra will agree with us that this redistribution of airspace should be brought forward quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u139	Thank you. That was the first term of office. I'm looking at the minister. She needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u140	We continue with the debate and we maintain the same number of interruptions as in the first period. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for all the support and compliments on another dossier, but it is, as others have said, today about the OVV report on security. Of course, I'd almost like to say, my aviation safety is also number one. It has to be a basic condition, otherwise you don't have to start. At the same time, many of you have also said that no one can always guarantee 100% safety. There will always be residual risks. It's not a black or white story. There's always something about that that the OVV report also seems to be full of measures that can help you make things better. I believe that it should be our common ambition to constantly work to ensure that we do everything we can in the reasonable way to improve that security with each other. Then I'll take a look at Mrs. Van Brenk as well. You had a very good point when you said: if everyone says in their own column 'I have checked everything properly, I have complied with all the laws and regulations and I am done', then perhaps it is not yet optimal and can do even better. I very much share that. That is exactly what the ambition of my whole approach will be, that it will be taken up in its entirety. That's also the nasty abbreviation of ISMS, that platform we make with each other for that. That is precisely what is meant to have all the parties in the sector involved at the table and together to give that integral security the attention it deserves. Well, I guess I'll just have to get something off my chest first. Sometimes you get to hear things from your mind, don't you? That's what I felt about the NLR report. I didn't get that report until last week at the Ministry, the final report, and I'm absolutely confused about any kind of timing in sending things to the Chamber. The moment it's there, that it's done and that it's public, I want it to go to the Chamber. The fact that that happens to happen one day before you have a debate that is related to this does not alter the fact that you always have the right to speak to me about it at any time in the future. I understand that there has been a lack of clarity because somewhere in the report there was a date on which it was approved. That's what we've been out-of-date. It's been an internal date at NLR. So I don't blame you at all. I also know what history is and that there is more distrust than trust. So I don't blame you. I only hope that Mr Laçin is already smiling and that it is now out of the world. I wanted to be here for your sake by making it available as soon as it was there. We don't have the Ministry's appreciation yet. I'll give it to you. You'll also get a report from To70. It's not known yet. You will receive the response of the OVV to our response and to the reaction of the sector. My proposal is to send those three appreciations to you together. As soon as I get the To70 report in, I'd just like to share it with you. The more time you have to prepare things and so on. I therefore hope that you will be able to appreciate this method in the future. It's just a shame that there was some confusion here just because there were other data in the piece, but hopefully my intention is clear. I just wanted to forward it to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u142	Thank you for the Minister's reply. Only: the minister appoints it himself: the file has a whole history, which is not always due to the minister. But that is why it would be a good thing for the Minister in the future, with documents of this kind coming to us from the NLR in this case and later from another organisation, to ensure that those documents just arrive at us very quickly. Now it is another coincidence that it is one day before the debate and this morning also delay Lelystad. Then suddenly a lot of things happen to us, but also to the people who follow this dossier, causes a lot of question marks, and I do not think we should all want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u143	Well, I don't quite understand Mr Laçin. 'Cause I just, as soon as I had something, said it could go straight to the room. I had it, so the Chamber could have it. Yeah, that happens to be just before a debate, I can't help it either. Nor can I imagine you saying: hold it until the debate is over. That would have been weird, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u144	Yeah, that would've been really weird. My point is how it can be that the document was signed on 19 January, even on my birthday, and that it is only then last week at the Ministry. I am not saying that it is up to the Ministry, but I would say, referring to the direction of the government, that of the Ministry: make sure that it is faster and more flexible, because this file has a history. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u145	On 19 January, because that was what it was about, a draft final report was received. That signature is therefore internal to the NLR. That's not the Ministry's signature. As a ministry, we also asked for two more reviews, carried out by the professors Hoekstra and Hudson. That also went to the NLR, which they processed, which led to the Ministry giving its agreement on 9 February as the client, and on 13 February we received the final report. Well, then it goes through the mill within the Ministry and then I received it the day before yesterday and said: well, then it can go straight to the Chamber. Yeah, that's how it happened. How we can prevent that in the future, I don't know. All I can do, in my opinion, is just always inform the Chamber as soon as I have it. That's what I've done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u146	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u147	I'd like to make a point of order. I understand Mr Laçin's feelings very well, but as the applicant for the debate, I would like to say that I am inclined to believe the new minister when she says she wanted to send this report to the Chamber as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, we should certainly be able to deal with this report in greater detail at a later date, because that is very difficult when it comes a day in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u148	It was also absolutely not the intention that this report should suddenly be discussed in this debate. In addition, you will be discussing which reports you wish to include in the debate. But that was also not the intention at all, it was just meant to send it to you as soon as there is something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u149	With us, it also initially aroused some mistrust, or confirmation of not trust. The Minister has given a good explanation, which we are fully satisfied with. We had asked for a letter on this, but it is no longer necessary. After all, she has already promised that, and that has been stipulated. Perhaps a very logical suggestion for the next time: send the document a short date, which shows how the document went through the organisation. Then you can always figure out what the steps have been. That's how you avoid this kind of thing. Because the Minister's desire to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible deserves praise. But a brief "conspiracy" in the letter how it crawled through the ministry, so a statement between...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u150	Would you like to know, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u151	That could be a recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u152	I don't think we've ever reported the exact steps in the Ministry. I think I made it very clear that I sent it to you as soon as I had it. You can call me on that any time. I'm just gonna... I'm just gonna... I'm gonna... I'm gonna... I'm gonna... I'm gonna... I'm No hair on my head would want anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u153	A point of order. That's right. I would just like to point out that we discussed the question of when to hold this debate at the procedural meeting: quickly or not. It was the opposition who wanted to conduct the debate quickly, although I said that I think there was another opinion from Bureau to70 and also a response from the OVV to the cabinet position. The opposition then felt it was necessary by majority to plan it quickly. Then this is the result. The applicant wanted to continue the debate for a legitimate reason: he did not want it to interfere with Lelystad, Schiphol and other matters; he wanted full attention to safety at Schiphol. We're lucky today, and that's good. But then we should not complain that the piece is incomplete and that there are still things to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u154	I would like to see if the Minister can move on, because I think there has been enough exchange of views on this point. The wishes of the SP and the Party for Animals have been made clear. Mr Laçin, I will give you an opportunity to respond in a moment, but I hope you will not respond to Mr Dijkstra again, because we will have a procedural discussion here. But it is clear that the Chamber wants to be informed, and the Minister admits that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u155	A small response to Mr Dijkstra. The opposition doesn't bitch. We want to be able to have a debate. We have indeed said that we wanted the debate quickly, because it is an important debate. We do not choose the moment when we get the report. To start blaming us for that, I think it's really weird. We simply want time to prepare ourselves well, therefore this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u156	No, Mr. Dijkstra, I'm really gonna end this. I'll give the Minister the floor. I also ask the Minister to move on to the subject we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u157	Mr President, I will not go any further on this either. The intentions have been expressed over and over again. I think the point here is out of the world. As I said, safety is not only on you but also on me at number one. The Ministry and the sector parties are at the point of keeping that security at the highest possible level. The basis for this is the comprehensive system of international law and regulation and supervision. We have ICAO at global level, EASA at European level and at national level carry out and supervise ILT audits. The parties at Schiphol Airport are certified by the ILT. They are certified because they comply with the rules and have well developed safety management systems. There is an important responsibility for safety. The ILT oversees it and states that Schiphol is safe. The OVV concludes: "Commercial aviation in the Netherlands has a well developed and certified safety system. There are no signs that safety at Schiphol Airport is insufficient." From my role as the final manager, I remain committed to maximum security. That is why I enthusiastically accept the recommendations of the OVV. I am also constantly in consultation with the sector to ensure that they do so. My ambition is to maximise security. Again, you can't avoid all the risks, but you have to make sure that you try to control them as much as possible. The recommendations of the OVV are an important tool in this regard. I think they've produced a really good report that we can do a lot with. The main lines all lead to an integrated approach to security. I just mentioned it in my introduction: you really need to do it together, as Mrs Van Brenk described it. I have systematically started to address all those recommendations addressed to the Ministry and the ILT and to include them in an integrated safety work programme for the coming years. I will also anchor that work programme in the state safety action plan. That is another term, but it is mandatory under ICAO rules. After all, that is international regulation. In concrete terms, these include attracting additional capacity, strengthening the organisation in policy and supervision, structural consultation with the sector, making concrete arrangements, better monitoring of security, and periodic reporting and evaluation. I'll go into it a little further later. Important element is the continuous and better picture of safety at Schiphol Airport and reporting on it. For that, I also improve monitoring and strengthen the Aviation Analysis Office. I will also have a safety record made by the ILT every year, especially for you. Several speakers have asked for this in various forms: can we not have a public responsibility from the Minister every year? I'd like to call that a state of safety. I intend to be able to send the first one to the Chamber by the end of this year. I would also like to broaden my role as a system manager and develop it even further. I would also like to do this with you in the context of the Aviation Memorandum, because, as you all say, safety is the first basis in the whole of aviation. It starts with the fact that it has to be safe. How do you do it the best way? This will be a very important building block, an important chapter of the new Aviation Note 2020-20140. What is also interesting to you is that in 2019 ICAO will carry out an audit on the implementation and application of international aviation safety regulations in the Netherlands. That is, of course, a very good calibration moment, which we can make use of. My ambition and the recommendations of the OVV also mean that the sector parties will have to take steps on several fronts to ensure that security is guaranteed and where it can be improved. The sector also recognises that. You have even seen two responses from the sector to the OVV. Importantly, the integrated safety management system, the ISMS, which looks at the safety of the flight operation at Schiphol Airport as if it were one organisation. There is, of course, that specific integral part. About the development of that ISMS, of that management system, I conclude a covenant with the parties from the Safety Platform Schiphol before the summer. These are LVNL, Schiphol and the airlines with a home base at Schiphol Airport. In addition, the sector has already taken concrete physical measures and planned to ensure safety. The sector will include all necessary measures in a road map safety improvement Schiphol. Yeah, we could call it different, but they call it a road map. Decision-making is based on a thorough risk analysis. It is also clear that there is a need for concrete investments to reduce, for example, the chances of running incursions there, we have another term called "s' and to reduce the number of orbital intersections. In the second letter from the sector to the OVV several examples are mentioned, such as additional lanes, possibly a taxiway around the southern head of the Kaagbaan and additional pitches. I hope that I have also indicated that I am very committed to the safety of Schiphol and that I have outlined my approach, the way in which I intend to follow the recommendations. I can walk through all the measures it contains one by one. I see Mr Paternotte nodding now. I'll do that right away. Then you also know how we deal with all these recommendations. Let me begin with the consultation with the sector. We've agreed to do that. I can inform the Chamber that consultations with LVNL, Schiphol and KLM are in principle held every month, both at the level of management and at the level of security managers. Then there is the issue of greater visible involvement of safety in the policy decisions on the further development of Schiphol. Several speakers have talked about this. The integrated safety analysis has been somewhat delayed compared to the original planning. That is because we have asked for an external review. Both professors considered it important to have others also look at the NLR report. The analysis of the NLR has just arrived at the Chamber. What about the sector parties that started the integrated safety management system? The sector is indeed taking steps and has already held a first meeting in that new structure in early 2018. It has been agreed with the sector which topics are included in that covenant. It'll be further worked out. The intention is therefore to sign this covenant in the middle of this year. The assessment of a strategic security vision will take place later this year. A first external audit is foreseen in 2019. I understand that the road map with the specific recommendations that has just been mentioned will establish the sector before the summer. Then the reinforcement of the organization of the ministry itself. This is a very important point. The new governance structure is ready. At the Ministry we now have a separate Directorate General for Aviation and Maritime Affairs. You've also been told before that there are 15 to 20 FTEs added. The enhanced work organisation will come into full force in the second quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u158	I think the intentions are all good. It is often the case with a report that the recommendations are embraced with a warm hug and that is said: we are all going to do so. So I believe that's what the Minister wants. Of course, we would like this to lead to action quickly. That's why it's a good thing you're closing a covenant before the summer. Yesterday, the Security Platform indicated that it also has firm ambitions for this. My question is whether you are going to keep the platform to these ambitions on all these points and whether we can see something about that in the state of security. I am thinking, for example, of reducing the complexity of the airport, the number of lane changes and the number of crossings, and of limiting the number of runway incursions. Those are all those numbers on the basis of which the OVV report concludes that there is much to improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u159	In the first instance, of course, everyone has their own responsibility. I see Mr Amhaouch standing by the interrupting microphone. He also expressed the net very well: everyone has, from his own legal task and his own social mission to take care of the maximum promotion of safety. This also applies to the tasks that we have as a ministry and to the tasks of the ILT, which is responsible for monitoring this. In the new platform it all comes together. We'll agree to that together. You'll have a little more in your hands. If you have a covenant in which you have made agreements with each other, you can also appeal to each other more easily. I also refer to the road map that makes the sector. If a roadmap has been created in which concrete goals are written, you will immediately have the handle to start the conversation with each other and to say that delivery is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u160	Yes, everyone has their own responsibility, but one of the points in the report is that there are many points where no direction has been taken. Where does it end up? You point to the ILT, but in the end the Minister is responsible again for the ILT and so you have the main responsibility. That is why the question is whether you are going to take the lead, so I take this as an example to make sure that all these good intentions also lead to it being entered into the covenants and that this will soon be seen in the state of security, so that the OVV does not have to make the same recommendations over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u161	I have misunderstood myself when you have understood that I want to put the ILT in the position of directing. That is absolutely not the intention. ILT just needs to audit and supervise. That's her job. I see it as a task for us as a ministry to bring together the integrated security policy and to take that direction. I do not want to detract from the fact that each party also has its own responsibility to put its own affairs in order. So we will simply appeal to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u162	I can, of course, endorse the Minister's last comment. Everyone has their own responsibility vertically and we expect the Minister to take a horizontal approach. I'm just trying to see if I can hear between the rules through commitments. We have said that we would like to see two important things secured. One is the strategic piece. Is it true that the Minister says about the strategic piece that she is going to take on the ambition and vision of the Ministry and the directional role in the ISMS document and with covenants and the roadmap? The second is the question of whether the operational aspect we have just referred to is going to change what is really going to happen today and we do not need to wait until tomorrow to come back to the work programme that we see every year with the state of security. Do those two images make sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u163	In fact, you forget that I want to give the strategic security policy and the role that we are putting into practice a place in the new Aviation Paper 2020-2040. We need to think very carefully with all the parties about how we shape this well, but I agree with what you say: we are going to do, of course, to pick up everything we can already do in the work programme. We will address the sector on their roadmap, and of course we will do so under the watchful eye of the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u164	Then I'll give it one more try. I understand the second, so that operational piece. Thank you for that. I'll come back to the strategic play. You call it Covenant, the Roadmap and the ISMS. How am I supposed to relate that to the Aeronautics Note? Are you going to write the headlines in the Aviation Note, and are you going to deposit them in the covenants, in the ISMS?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u165	When we talk about the future of Dutch aviation, I think it is right to make a very clear reference in the Aviation Note to who has what role, task and responsibility in it. In this sense, I believe that this should be given an important place in security policy. If we just write down the targets in that, and don't put those who stand up for it, it's wishful thinking. So my aim is to embed this very well in the new Aviation Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u166	I just heard the Minister say that the ILT considers the situation at Schiphol as safe and that the ILT also does the certification of LVNL, among other things. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u167	The ILT examines whether the certificates can be issued, using international regulations. ICAO and EASA, of course, also assess whether everyone complies with this regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u168	Thank you. Then I heard that right. But to Pag. 137 of the report states: "In addition, the ILT has insufficient knowledge and resources to effectively monitor the content of LVNL." Then I do not understand what the Minister has just said. How's that rhyme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u169	I actually wanted to deal with the block on the ILT later, but I can now also make the switch to it, if you like, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u170	If you come back to that, I'd prefer it, unless you'd like to deal with it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u171	I can do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u172	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u173	We've taken a good look at that, and we've made the choice to hire extra people. It concerns 4 fte in total, both for inspectors and for the more strategic piece. So on the 20 fte that were already there, there are 4 more. In addition, there will also be a different approach, because at the ILT, too, the different disciplines are now being brought together and it will be integrated, together, as a team, and that will also lead to more effective and efficient supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u174	Thanks for the answer. That's all that's gonna happen. For now, I note that the Minister says that the ILT LVNL has assessed it as safe while the OVV says that it cannot do so in substance. It therefore deviates from what is stated in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u175	Well, in the report, the OVV also says that Schiphol is not unsafe. Nor does the OVV say that LVNL works unsafely. That's not what the O.V.V. is saying. The ILT says that something must be done about the knowledge. We have recognised this and we have adapted our policies accordingly. So there are extra people and the way of working becomes different. We must, of course, monitor this and then we will have to see if there is sufficient improvement. We will also see what the OVV says about how we want to deal with the recommendations. Then we'll see if this is enough or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u176	I have a question on the subject before, but while we are talking about the ILT, I would like to ask a question about it first. The minister says there's four people coming in. That seems fine to me in itself, but on the basis of what analysis does the Minister think that that is enough for the ILT to carry out her role properly, considering that there are serious concerns from the sector and the OVV? What analysis is the basis for the ILT's ability to perform its function properly now and in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u177	This is, of course, first of all an assessment of the ILT itself. They know what they're up against. Within the ILT, almost every portfolio has been chosen for more risk-driven supervision, as you know. Everyone expects a lot of improvements, but that will have to be demonstrated, as we have always said. We will monitor that and, of course, as soon as we have sufficient experience with it, we will also evaluate it. For the time being, however, the ILT is also convinced that this new way of working can bring about a substantial improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u178	It does not reassure me enough that the ILT itself makes that assessment. The observations in the OVV report are serious and this is very important. The role of enforcement is really crucial, especially with a retreating government in the area of security. We would really like to invite the Minister to carry out an audit or an analysis: where are the weaknesses now with the ILT and how do we ensure that the ILT is strong enough to determine that role? Because that is the crucial link that, as far as we are concerned, is the hardest one from the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u179	I'm a little repeating. In fact, we have the discussion on whether the ILT has enough people and sufficient knowledge in all its portfolio parts. We have said that we have a new way of working and it must be improved. We are going to see that, but you also know that it is not the case that security is, by definition, better secured with just more enforcers. It should be enough, but you can also put a police officer at every traffic light to make sure no one runs a red light. It's got to be proportional. It is difficult to make a proper assessment. We think that we can really achieve an improvement with these four people involved and with a different way of working: more integral, more teaming up and bringing different disciplines together. But that's gonna have to prove itself. We will, of course, also discuss this in audits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u180	At least 4 fte is already a step. I also asked a question about the level of knowledge: is there any additional investment in expanding knowledge? A question has also been asked about the Labour Inspectorate, because I think it is a step forward in terms of working conditions. The question was: how does the Labour Inspectorate get behind the door at Schiphol Airport unsolicited?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u181	The Labour Inspectorate is the responsibility of SZW's colleague. Mr Laçin has also asked questions about this on a regular basis. Of course, work pressure is one of the elements and will certainly have to play a role, but when it comes to the question of what you want, you naturally wish that Dutch legislation and regulations are fully respected in terms of working conditions. That is monitored, but that is not the ILT but the Inspection SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u182	I understand that, but I'm assuming you have a good peer meeting. From the people who do this, we hear that due to the workload caused, in particular by the calls for tenders, there are very often small accidents or near-accidents in the context of driving with all those carts and so on. There used to be just one organization there; now there are several freight forwarders and organisations. They all have to work in the same field, and that also entails risks. My question is whether the Minister is sufficiently aware of this and whether she and her colleague can switch to make sure that there too the monitor and the integral feeling that we have everything well in place are on her retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u183	Mrs Van Brenk has a good point: we must of course also work as an integral cabinet. That is the message I feel, and that is certainly the intention. Of course, we also have discussions. If, as you outline, there are little things happening, it is extremely important that these reports of unusual events are closely monitored and that we look closely at them. That's what the ILT does and that's what happens at the ISMS table, where these unusual events are of course shared with each other. If that means that there would be a link with workload, then we should, of course, discuss this with each other. Then that will certainly be worth a meeting at that table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u184	The Minister says that we often ask about inspections whether we do not need more people. Of course, that's often true. At the same time, the report shows in many respects that aviation is a very complex sector of transport. We have discussed before how few agencies have the expertise to do calculations of, for example, sound effects. The ILT has been cut for years. There is now a very clear recommendation: more knowledge and expertise is needed. Now there are 4 FTE's and one time I calculated it for just €1.20 per plane at Schiphol Airport for knowledge and expertise. My question to the Minister is: is this enough? Do you think that the OVV will say in its response: we now have the idea that it is back in order? Or is this, as far as you're concerned, a small first step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u185	I just tried to point out that knowledge and expertise don't double if you go from one to two people. The beauty of ideas and knowledge is: if I have that knowledge and I give it to you, then we both have it afterwards. In that sense, you don't have to expand it with one person every time. Because of the new method you can just... I can see you thinking, but it's true. If I give you an idea and you give me, we'll both have one afterwards. If one person comes in, for example, if you go from one to two, then not suddenly your knowledge has doubled, because you share that knowledge with each other. So the knowledge can also be perfectly in order with a small number of people. It's not in the number. The number is more related to the amount of enforcement actions you can perform, to the amount of subjects you can do, to the amount of events you can analyze and so on. But knowledge is not tied to the number of FTEs at the ILT, because you can simply spread that knowledge, share it with everyone. I hope I've made my point now. Of course we'll see if those four FTEs are enough. We'll monitor that. But, again, it's not just those four FTEs. It is also: a very different way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u186	Yes, but the cabinet still spends some 1.5 billion extra on education because we assume that sometimes money is needed to spread and share knowledge and ensure that everyone has access to it. In that sense, my question is: does the Minister mean that with that €600,000 the whole ILT as a result of some kind of snowball effect can get its level of knowledge in order? I will also come back to my first question. Do you expect the OVV to say: this is exactly what we meant? Or are those first four FTEs a small step? Aviation has grown enormously, while the ILT has not grown along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u187	But I do not think that it is necessary to link the number of one-on-one to the growth rate. You can work systematically. You're working integrally. But you are right: it will still have to be proved. We believe that this is an important step. We believe that we can invest enough in knowledge. But it will have to prove that the OVV is also enthusiastic about this. I think that if the ILT itself says that she can take an important step with this, we should give her the chance to make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u188	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u189	Yes, Chairman, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u190	Your fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u191	Again. We are talking here about the state of affairs as reported by the OVV. The OVV says that the ILT, the inspection is unable to do its job properly. That's just what it says on page 137. Now the Minister also says: Wait a minute, it's safe at least, it's not unsafe because the ILT has, among other things, certified the LVNL. So an authority, an inspection the OVV says is not capable of, has certified. And that is what the Minister says: that is enough. Is the Minister prepared, let me ask you this, if she is so convinced to have an audit carried out on LVNL to see if it is indeed so, whether the ILT has rightly described it as sufficient? That is not what the OVV report says. The Minister can get rid of it very easily by saying that and wronging me. Then I'll be the first to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u192	This minister is not inclined to get rid of anything at all. Mr Van Raan is now linking things together: as if this remark in the Schiphol report were unsafe. That's not what the O.V.V. is saying. So I'm not taking up that conclusion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u193	That's not what...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u194	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nor is that what is being said. The only thing that is said is this. The inspection shall be assessed as insufficient. The LVNL has ruled that the LVNL would be safe enough. So there is every reason to question that judgment. Apparently, the minister doesn't want to do that, and she doesn't want to check it again. That's weird. That's weird. So I ask again: is she willing to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u196	What we are doing is improving the knowledge and capacity of the ILT, which solves this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u197	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u198	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u199	...an inspection that becomes insufficient...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u200	Mr. Van Raan, also in order to get a good answer, the interruption must be very clear and brief. Because the more you elaborate, the harder it is to give the right answer. So I'd say another try.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u201	Well, the question has already been asked and the Minister really refuses to answer it. So you can say that interruptions have to be short and pointy, and I agree with that, but the pointiest thing I can say is that the inspection, which has not been judged sufficiently by the OVV, has issued a certification on the basis of which the Minister also says it is safe. That is what she said just now in the debate. All I ask and find, is that on the basis of what the OVV says, it is necessary to look at this. For the judgment was given by an inspection which is not considered sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u202	I can only repeat that in his report the OVV states that it is not unsafe. And I didn't read in the report that the OVV says that all decisions and all certifications and whatever the ILT have suddenly become invalid because of this observation. I haven't seen anything: everything the ILT has done, we can't really accept for what, because the knowledge and quality at the ILT are not in order. I really didn't go through with the OVV's conclusion that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u203	I'm gonna take a side jump. On page 132 of the OVV report you can see the final bullet of the conclusions: ILT's capacity and professional knowledge are insufficient to effectively monitor the safety of air traffic at and around Schiphol Airport. That's literally what the O.V.V. report says. Now the Minister says that 4 fte are added to the 20 that are already there. And then, in the words of the Minister, it must be clear how that will work and what it will do with the enforcement and supervision of Schiphol. In my view, that only increases my concern on this point. For there is no time and there is no room to look so far ahead with 4 fte on top of the 20 that are already there. So I would like to hear from this Minister, in addition to what Mr Paternotte asked, whether those 4 FTEs that are going to be added are the final station. Or is that the first step? The Minister was right to say that I always ask questions about the ILT, almost in every debate. Are we going to work towards an ILT in which the group that focuses on aviation is growing even further than the 24 fte currently available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u204	That's gonna have to prove it. We assume that with these additional people and with the new way of working we can achieve effective supervision. I would stress once again that it is not said that it is all wrong what the ILT is doing. We can do better, and we're gonna work on that, too. I haven't read anywhere that there's any doubt about judgments that the ILT has pronounced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u205	I'd like to rebut that right away. Mr Van Raan and I both do not say that it is all wrong. There is a very clear conclusion in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u206	Yeah, and we'll share it. That is why we also have four people and have introduced a new way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u207	Then we're getting somewhere. We share that there is currently insufficient capacity and professional knowledge. We'll share that. I have the following questions on which I will continue to work. It will turn out, the Minister says. What am I supposed to mean by that? What timeline do you see? How's that gonna turn out? From what are we going to conclude together whether it has turned out or not? That stays in the air for me at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u208	This applies widely and to all parts of the ILT. I've said that before. Whether we are talking about the control of GenX at Chemours or about the driving and rest periods of truck drivers, it will have to be seen everywhere whether the new way of risk-driven supervision works. First, you have to give it a chance. Then you can see how it works in practice. This is all totally new. We're going to evaluate that at an appropriate time, and that's what we're going to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u209	I'm still trying to pull this crap apart. Look, the report says very clearly: the ILT also lacks knowledge and resources to effectively monitor the content of LVNL. That's the crucial point. The Minister drew conclusions on the ILT. That's where capacity came in. The question is, in my view, what conclusions does the Minister draw for LVNL. LVNL is now assessed as safe and has received a certificate from a party that is said not to have the means to do so. The question is what conclusion does the Minister draw about the functioning of LVNL. I also agree with Mr Van Raan. We simply want LVNL to be checked again for security by a party other than the ILT who does not have the means to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u210	This is where we part ways. That is the same as Mr Van Raan. Since it is found that the ILT does not have sufficient knowledge about LNVL, you conclude that this would immediately mean that it is not in order with LVNL. I'll fight that. Because if that were the case, so if the OVV would say that what the LVNL is doing is not at all responsible anymore, there really would have been something else in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u211	On what basis does the Minister dare to say here that the place is in order at LVNL and so is the certificate for LNVL? Because the OVV says about the ITL, the one who has to maintain it, that it does not have the knowledge and resources to effectively monitor its content. So why does this minister dare to say with certainty that everything is in order at LVNL?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u212	No one says that LVNL is all in order. It's about whether it's safe or not. If there really was a problem with LVNL and they couldn't be certified, because it's about that certificate in the end, they would have really called the bell. I do not believe that there are people at the OVV who would not have said that they had serious doubts as to whether that certificate was justified. With every organization, you can do things better. This will apply to LVNL. The same applies to ILT. That is what we agree with, because that is what we stand for. In that sense, we have attracted additional people and introduced a different way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u213	I'm just gonna go change it. The ILT is very important. It is also mentioned in the report. The Minister says that four people in their 20s will be added, for aviation, I presume. That's an increase of 20%. When are these four people coming or are they already active? Where are we gonna see that in the process? We said we wanted to bail it out. We don't want to solve it once. Are we going to see that in the work programme every year? Where are we going to see that everything is fully functioning? Of course, this includes the supervision of the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u214	I can imagine how we deal with ILT, the human, the knowledge and skills there, will be an annual subject in the State of Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u215	I had also asked whether those four people were already active or recruited. Within what period of time do they become active?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u216	I'm gonna have to keep the answer to that for a while. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u217	Your last question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u218	I am aware of that and it is still going on this subject. The Minister says here: the ILT is indeed not on strength and the LVNL has received a certificate from an ILT that is actually not on strength. But she also says: the OVV doesn't say that certificate is bad, so it won't be bad. It's right here. It's exactly the crux. If the Minister takes her direction seriously and takes her responsibility, she will draw conclusions herself. The OVV does not have to conclude that. If the minister reads that the ILT is not strong enough to control the LNVL really well, she's going to make sure it does. That's a minister taking control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u219	That's exactly what we're doing. That's why extra people come in two different positions. From 20 we go to 24. We also introduce a different way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u220	I just came to the conclusion that I hadn't had an answer to the quality part yet. Maybe the Minister can zoom in on that. We're getting backup now. I told you, I like that first step. We'll see if that's enough later. I am concerned about the level of knowledge. What are we going to do about getting our inspectors completely up-to-date, so we can take away any doubt and have the best people in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u221	This is constantly being worked on. We live in an age of lifelong learning. The same applies to the inspection. They are constantly working on all kinds of training programs. Special attention will now be paid to this. The ILT itself does not want to read this about itself in reports. Work is therefore under way to complement knowledge identified by the OVV as inadequate with existing FTEs and new people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u222	Would it be possible, in the long term, for the Minister to tell us what training is and what steps are being taken if she reports annually on the state? Can this become a permanent part of it, so that we can have confidence in the fantastic quality of our inspectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u223	I hope that's what you mean when you say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u224	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u225	I think that there is indeed very hard work at the ILT. I think it's okay to take into account how knowledge gathering and maintaining knowledge is handled at the ILT. I'd be happy to tell you. I think it's important to give you a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u226	I let it go for a while, but we've already talked about knowledge, expertise and capacity at the ILT. That's good. I assume the ILT also has a role in looking at orbital intersections. That's my first question. My second question is whether the Minister can tell us whether the legislation is in order. I gave an example of drones. You can do some really bad things with that. They shouldn't be near airports either. Can we actually get these things out of the sky? Do we have capacity for that? Who's responsible for that? What about the legislation? New technologies of this kind are emerging and can also affect our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u227	We must be constantly alert not only to the ILT, which has to supervise, but also to the Ministry's policy departments, which are reporting all these new developments. It must also be the subject of constant discussion at the security table, the ISMS, where we have all parties on board. We have to keep our finger on each other's wrists all the time. Drones are indeed a new challenge. We still have to look closely at how we want to regulate them in the future and what is or is not possible. We haven't decided on that yet, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u228	Mr Gijs van Dijk. You're not sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u229	No, absolutely not, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about all kinds of aspects of security. The inspection is very important. It is a good thing that extra people are involved and that we get more insight into that. I want to talk about security on the ground now. The NLR report states that competition between all kinds of ground handling providers can lead to dangerous situations. You've got different providers that go crazy, and that could lead to dangerous situations. Is the Minister prepared to take that with him and to direct it more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u230	As I just said, all such incidents need to be reported. They must also be able to be reported without repercussions. That should be discussed with all the sector parties at the table. If that leads to dangerous situations being prevented, you have to pick them up with each other, surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u231	That's good. I think it's important to take that directional role. However, it is important to look at the quality requirements of the companies that carry out it. It is of course important that they have people with knowledge and skills, that they implement the rules properly, that they drive the good equipment, that they do not create unsafe situations. Is the Minister prepared to look at these quality standards as well? There are all kinds of providers and there is constant dialogue, but are there any demands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u232	There are, of course, quality requirements for each sector and there are laws and regulations. That's what the ILT is looking after. If there are indications that things can be made safer by doing it in a different way, then you have to talk to each other at that table. I very much like your suggestion to discuss specifically these kinds of incidents. I think it's wise to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u233	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u234	Mr. Chairman. I come to the combination of safety and growth. Many Members have asked questions about this. For the development of Schiphol, the coalition agreement is leading. You know it all. Of course, safe handling of air traffic is number one. Before a single decision can be taken, we must first have the factual basis on order. You all know that there is still a need for an environmental impact assessment on the part of Schiphol. All this will have to be verified and validated; check and double check. We expect this to be available in the spring. Of course, this concerns first of all the facts about safety, capacity, selectivity and, of course, the environment. Around the summer I receive the advice of the Schiphol Environment Council, the advice on flying and living and the advice on the new standards and enforcement system. There too, of course, safety is a prerequisite. That is not negotiable, as is the case with the ORS. Only then can the cabinet make a decision that we can anchor in regulation. What is clear in any case is that the cap of that growth cannot be exceeded to 500,000 by 2020. There can be no misunderstanding about this until 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u235	Last question, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u236	That 500,000 cap is up to 2020. It is very good that the Minister is clear about this. In response to questions from the Animal Party and from us in the written consultation, the Minister writes: I intend to carry out a mid-term review in 2020 of the safety steps taken up to that period, before further growth can take place above 500,000 flight movements. I assume that the Minister still supports this reply in the written consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u237	Sure, yeah. I can just reconfirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u238	Then I suggest you answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u239	We've been asked to go back to 480,000 flight movements. So we're not gonna do that. The 500,000 cap is here, and we're not going back to less. Mr Van Raan has asked: can it be without increasing the number of accidents? I think it is too early to discuss this now. We have a report from the NLR. We'll give you an appreciation of that. I'm still waiting for a response from the O.V.V. I'm still waiting on a report from To70. I think it's too early to anticipate this. First of all, I would like to make sure that we have that fact base around Schiphol in order at all. I want everything validated and I want all the advice straightened out. Then we can discuss with each other what is and is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u240	Suppose the worst scenario, for us a favorable scenario, becomes reality. Let's say it's gonna take a little longer with Lelystad Airport. The Minister may have seen the response of KLM's top man. He said that if that happens to Lelystad, Schiphol must be able to grow. That was also our request. We want Schiphol to grow to 600,000 in the short term. Can the Minister respond to that? What if it's really gonna take longer? Let's say it's being tuned. Nothing's impossible. What if it doesn't happen? Then Schiphol must be able to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u241	I can only repeat what was agreed in the coalition agreement: 500,000 by 2020 and then there will be limited growth according to the fifty-fifty ratio. And again, if you want to be able to do that, then security is a prerequisite. To this end, we must wait for all the studies and see if we can come to a conclusion on what is still possible in terms of growth. That is all I can make of it, but I do not see the 600 000 you are talking about coming together in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u242	That may not be necessary at all in the short term either. Suppose Schiphol is above 500,000 by 2020, what are we gonna do? And that's quite realistic if it's going to take longer with Lelystad or if Lelystad can be adjusted. We can't just say "we're quitting, because it's in the coalition agreement"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u243	No, but just as well as the 50-50 rule for growth after the 500,000 for Schiphol in the coalition agreement, it also includes selectivity policy. The only way to do that is with Lelystad. So that doomsday scenario of someday adjustment is totally out of the question for me. Lelystad's open. I only indicated this morning that this is not going to happen by April 2019 because we need to go through the process carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u244	I would like to make a small comment. It has been said a number of times that the agreements on Schiphol run until 2020. That should be: until 2020. I'm saying that for all the viewers who might not be able to follow otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u245	I agree with Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u246	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u247	Then questions were asked about the orbital changes. There is, of course, a very complex situation at Schiphol. At many other airports we see neat lines running side by side and at us it is a kind of mikadose. That does make it all more complex. We are also at the sea, which means that the wind has to deal with all kinds of complications. That makes it complicated for us. But fortunately, the OVV report also shows that it can be done safely. Therefore, the rules for the noise-preferent use of runways in the new system explicitly take into account the space needed for the safe handling of that air traffic. Safety has also now been a prerequisite for decision-making and for the whole operation. The Research Council does not argue that 2+1+1 job use combined with strictly preferential job use would be unsafe. So the complex situation we now know is not described as unsafe. That does not alter the fact that it is complex, but that is the situation we are dealing with. The OVV recommends developing a new operational concept for Schiphol, leading to a reduction in the number of changes in track combinations. We will have to look closely at this with all the experts. We are also talking about this with all those parties, because it is a very complex task and we need to look at it in conjunction with the entire reclassification of airspace. You will be able to imagine that, of course, this will have a very significant impact on the use of jobs and on how you reorganise airspace. Everything in this file is a bit related to everything, and that is certainly true here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u248	The latter is a nice addition and I cannot deny it. It is indeed very complex. We want to make it less complex. You said "it's complex" a few times, but there's a lot going on. There's a lot of switching and security won't be an issue. It is an issue and the most important, but... I think it's so weird. We sometimes change orbit for two hours without the wind turning. So we'll go to another job and then we'll go back to that first job. We exchange quite often, and I just want us to do less. I have the feeling that we're all flying weird corners right now just to live in and to keep people safe, while safety should be paramount. If we can make it less complex, then surely we should? We need to go through that and not wait for a reclassification. Just wrap it up to avoid any changes, because every change is also a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u249	I agree with Mr Dijkstra, Mr President. So we are already in dialogue with the parties in order to achieve simplification wherever possible. I would just like to point out that a reclassification of airspace has a clear impact on this. At the same time, of course, we are already working to achieve a more stable use of jobs. This can be done by extending the fourth runway rule and achieving less last-minute orbit changes. This also has to do with better coordination, planning and communication. It is being worked on by all parties in order to improve it. No one has any interest in changing jobs unnecessarily. It's not like anyone's gonna be happy when we get another job change. Everyone is now convinced of this and is working to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u250	That's a good thing. I think that a taxiway should be able to get there when it is necessary. A few extra lights to increase safety should then be possible. And I'm asking the Minister to take a look at it from the pilot's perspective. It's gonna be 15 minutes before he leaves that his job changes and he's gonna have to change his schedule. The other way around, when he is in the air in a nice direction to go down and make a nice glide: no, you have to use another job, otherwise the people in this village will suffer. That simply should not be the case. Then we burden them too much. In doing so, we are also taking a risk that we can actually prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u251	I couldn't agree more. I think everyone agrees with you that we have all those things where we can prevent them...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u252	No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u253	Well, where we can prevent orbital changes... I thought you'd agree that we shouldn't want to. Anyway, I've lost track of that. I think everyone will be for more stable job use and for better communication, planning and coordination. Mr Laçin will not want a pilot to change jobs at the last minute, 15 minutes in advance. Surely he will want to get rid of that aspect as much as possible, so that there are no last-minute orbital changes anymore? By the way, I apologize for the entrapment, Mr President. It's horrible! I shouldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u254	As Members of Parliament as experts in this area, we can all have an opinion on many job changes, which is a fact, and on all kinds of solutions, on whether or not you're going to put the lights differently, but I think it's much more important what the pilots say. Mr Dijkstra also referred to this. We know that the Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeerskliegers also had an opinion on the report when it came out in December. They're behind the wheel every time. Those are the people with the legs in the mud, as we call it, with all due respect, of course. How can we somehow involve them in this? They often have good operational ideas. How can we include them in the work programmes? I would like to hear from the Minister how we can guarantee that, and of course in such a way that everyone can come to their senses, because we cannot put everyone at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u255	Well, it's a coincidence that tomorrow I'll have a meeting with the umbrella organization, the VNV. I can present it to them right away, so I'll discuss it with them right away tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u256	Mr. Laçin, the last question for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u257	That was entrapment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u258	Yeah, that's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u259	Of course, we do not want a pilot to have another job ten minutes or 15 minutes in advance, but we do have a difference of opinion about the story of Mr Dijkstra, which you underline. Job use at Schiphol Airport is precisely so complex because we also have clear requirements in the area of noise and environmental pollution. Above all, we want to keep it, and in that context we want to see whether the use of jobs at Schiphol Airport can be changed or improved. But it must not be at the expense of those who live nearby, who are quickly put aside in Mr Dijkstra's story. We certainly do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u260	Then I have understood Mr Dijkstra differently from you, because I did not understand that Mr Dijkstra wants to stop flying the sound preference completely. But we'll find out later. Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus has asked what is being done to prevent the flow of traffic controllers. LVNL currently has sufficient traffic controllers to carry out the daily operation safely, as has been established. In the context of the elaboration of your 2016 motion, SEOR has conducted extensive research into air traffic control capacity. Although traffic controllers are sometimes interested in a job abroad, luckily there has been little early departure in recent years. That, of course, is not a guarantee for the future either. For this reason, the maintenance of human capacity is a high priority for LVNL. There is also a strong emphasis on increasing the efficiency of training and reducing unwanted outflow. We are well aware of this, especially when we are dealing with the problem we are dealing with in society as a whole, that an outflow is coming towards us as a result of an ageing population and that we need to guarantee sufficient underflow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u261	Were you now considering Mr Graus' question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u262	I think I've answered it enough by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u263	Let's talk about the air traffic controllers. I mentioned in my first term that there are signs that the workload is high. There is also a letter of fire from the air traffic controllers at the beginning of January: there may not be a direct shortage of personnel now, but the pressure is very high; this may also have a safety impact. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u264	I also discussed this with Mr Van Dorst of LVNL when I visited him. The most important observation is that safety is not at stake. As I said to Mr Graus, there is a great deal of attention: how do you get enough people involved? There's only a very small number of people coming through that training now. What can you do to make sure that more people reach the finish line and can be deployed? How do you prevent people from leaving in between? A good working environment is a prerequisite for this. It's being worked on all sides to tackle that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u265	The salary will not be to attract people, but probably to the knowledge and skills, because it is professional work and very important. Are we getting an insight into that? There are serious signals from the workplace itself about possible insecurity and about working pressure. Fortunately, this is being done, but do we get more information about it as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u266	In the first instance, it is LVNL's responsibility to have its own personnel policy in order. I also regularly discuss this with them. I do not know what information you would like to have on this, other than that I am assured that it is being worked on. You'll be able to see how many people are working and how many are pouring out. I can't do much more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u267	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u268	It's true or not. We're getting a burn notice that there are serious concerns about the workload and possibly unsafe situations. It is a good thing that this is being discussed, but it is also a responsibility for the Chamber to check it. These people are doing important work for safety at Schiphol. Wouldn't you like to have a little more insight into it? Or has the cunt perhaps been withdrawn from the air traffic controllers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u269	I had the conversation about that. It's good that people like some kind of cri de coeur ring the bell when they think "hey, now it's gonna be really awesome." But I am also confident that LVNL's leadership will handle this in a good way, will engage in conversation with people who think "this is not going well anymore" and will make improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u270	I suggest you move on. I also want to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u271	I have a small pile of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u272	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u273	The VVD still asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u274	Mr. Graus, you're still entitled to a question, but I actually like it when the Minister finishes her story. You're interrupting every sentence. But you're unlucky.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u275	The Minister is probably done with the LVNL block now. I also asked about the cloud gauge and the blind spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u276	I had it as the last one, but I can respond to that right away. About the cloud altimeter and the blind spot at IJmuiden I have to say that at the moment it is beyond us exactly how that is. If you don't mind, we'll come back to that in writing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u277	I think it is right for the Minister to return to that in writing. It exists. I went there myself. Of course, it's also about public money. That is why I am asking for it here in the House, because I may have to table a motion on it, and now I am waiting for a response so that the Chamber can give its opinion on it. The Minister does not, of course, have money everywhere, but this is essential for security. That's why I'm asking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u278	Once again, I say to Mr Graus that we will find out exactly what that is about and that I will return to the Chamber in writing. Another question has been asked by the VVD about the transparency and democratic content of the Alderstable and the ORS. Does the ORS prevent a new completion of the operation at Schiphol? I have already promised to evaluate the ORS, the whole system of Alderstables, and to look at the new structure we want to have for participation, advice, governance and consultation, also a bit on the basis of what we noticed at Lelystad Airport. The Alderssystem has had its value, but at some point each system becomes a clot and that applies here too. So we're really gonna see how we can do this differently in a good way. We are not just saying that to the people who had a different view of this with the aviation parties, but also with residents, with residents. The question is how to involve people in this in a modern way, to ultimately get the best possible decision and not to push things forward endlessly. Mr Laçin has asked how residents are involved. I can't say exactly how we're going to do that yet, but you can be assured that I'm really going to look at how that can be properly designed. Not only do we ask for advice from all existing tables, but we also ask administrators from the different regions what their experiences are, how they look at them and how they can help in doing so. So we also ask all relevant stakeholders about their experiences with the past processes. GroenLinks has asked the OVV to request a broader analysis, including regional airports. The OVV is probably listening to this debate. The OVV is independent and determines its own agenda. The ILT also supervises regional airports. We do not have any signs that safety would be at stake there. We are looking at the whole of the redeployment of airspace towards airspace and also at the safety aspects for all airports, but you may have given the OVV an idea today. It's possible. Mr Graus asked what I would do with the motion on a national aviation plan. I've translated it, and it doesn't say "national" in the Aviation Paper 2020-2040. That's my translation of what you call the national aviation plan. So there's another name on it, but that's about it. A further question has been asked about the number of geese. Why not include a ban on whole crops in the Schiphol or Schiphol airport classification decision? As I indicated to your Chamber in the collection letter of 18 January this year, I am seriously working on animal-friendly solutions to reduce those goose populations around airports. Animal-friendly solutions have been committed to reducing these populations for years, and they remain so. For Schiphol we have a four-track approach: since 2003 there is a zone for limiting bird-catching destinations around Schiphol, Schiphol now has four bird radars, we are forced to manage the population, as you know, and this year I make agreements again, including with the farmers around the airport, about accelerating the underworking of grain residues so as not to provoke the geese. So I am looking for alternative crops instead of grain, but I do not want to impose this in the airport classification decision Schiphol. Finally. I have examined the cost of underworking in the sector, but because it concerns measures outside the airport, it is unfortunately not feasible. Let's see. Then we had Mr. Graus' cloud altitude meter. Then I've handled everything, I think, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u279	Thank you. I now turn to the second term of office and give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. I would like to say that, if there are any motions, I will start immediately, because I am really sticking to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u280	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the officials for answering the many questions. Yes, it is good that there will be a covenant with the sector before the summer, and that there will be a state of security for Schiphol and that the Minister will also make it clear who is responsible for it, so that it will eventually be here. We are, of course, still missing concrete measures. We expect them very soon. We don't want to go from recommendation to recommendation and from incident to incident. The Minister does not want that either, but that does mean that we are going to keep our finger on the wrist. An example of this is the Runway Status Lights system. It is something that pilots at complex airports, where there is sometimes bad weather, insist on. They also insist in the Netherlands, but although Paris has it and many airports in the United States, Schiphol does not yet have it. The Federal Aviation Administration has also recently issued a report showing that it really leads to less serious incidents. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both the Safety Research Council and the Netherlands Air and Space Centre note that the complex physical infrastructure at Schiphol Airport, such as many taxi lanes and ramps and exits, creates safety risks;]] [[Whereas it is a long-cherished wish of the pilots to be better accompanied in taxiing at Schiphol Airport, especially when weather conditions are poor, thereby limiting visibility in addition to the great complexity;]] [[Considering that since the deployment of so-called Runway Status Lights systems at twenty US airports, the Federal Aviation Administration has seen a decrease in the severity of incidents on the runway, and that other European airports such as Paris Charles de Gaulle have now built this system;]] [[calls on the government to urge the sector to take management measures as soon as possible to reduce the risk of job accidents, taking into account in particular the smart application of Runway Status Lights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-262]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u282	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CEO of Schiphol has repeatedly expressed the ambition to grow Schiphol beyond the current ceiling of 500,000 flight movements;]] [[Whereas this can only be done safely and responsibly when the recommendations made by the Safety Research Council in its report Security Air Traffic Schiphol and the recommendations made by the Netherlands Air and Space Centre in its report Integrated Safety Analysis Schiphol;]] [[calls on the Government to put all plans for and discussions on the expansion of Schiphol in the refrigerator until all the recommendations of the aforementioned reports have been implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents can talk through different participation platforms but are not really heard;]] [[noting that economic added value has been above human, environmental and climate importance in recent years;]] [[Whereas the Environment and Infrastructure Council disputes the economic added value of Schiphol;]] [[calls on the government to give a prominent role to residents and environmental organisations in the re-establishment of consultation structures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT) has a heavy and growing range of tasks;]] [[noting that the Safety Research Council (OVV) states that due to the transition to system oversight there is insufficient professional knowledge at the ILT;]] [[Whereas good supervision of safe air traffic also requires professional knowledge;]] [[Calls on the Government to make it clear how the additional deployment of staff at the ILT has contributed to more professional knowledge in the inspection and how this knowledge has been secured, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-263]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-264]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u284	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u285	Yes, you can. For compliments you always get the time from me, extra time even. Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Safety Research Council was investigating the safety of air traffic at Schiphol Airport;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands Air and Space Centre has issued a report on the integral safety of Schiphol;]] [[calls on the government to pay explicit attention to the safety risks that may arise from the agreements on job changes in the new standards and enforcement system in the decision-making process on the growth of Schiphol;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u287	Then I would like to thank the Minister for not nothing at this time; aviation is hot. There's a lot going on. I am glad that we have been able to talk primarily about safety in this debate. We'll talk about all the other topics later. A compliment to ourselves for letting us do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u288	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u289	A number of conclusions that the VVD draws: Schiphol Airport is safe. That's one. That's good, but it's never safe enough. Of course, we'll keep working on that. Two. Aviation can also grow safely in the Netherlands. That's an important conclusion from the report I read yesterday. We have mentioned an end to poldering. The safety of residents, workers and passengers must also be of course good. One thing remains to me and I am going to dive into it: the preferred use of jobs. That's a file in itself. It is very complicated, but safety must be paramount and not noise, if you have to choose between them. Luckily, those things can go together. I just think it's weird. Please, let's get the airplane moving. Let us not all take on strange restrictions that I believe have been imposed by all kinds of strange consultative bodies. We really need to start with a clean slate and just make sure we can fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u290	Thank you. Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals. How many motions do you have, Mr. Van Raan? Four of them. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Great to see how the VVD wipes out residents' interests in one easy sentence. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Airport Classification Decision (LIB) does not describe Schiphol agriculture as a land use with a bird attraction effect;]] [[Whereas, in particular around the harvest season, many groups of geese fly to harvests between the runways of Schiphol;]] [[calls on the Government to include restrictions on the cultivation of bird-catching crops in an adaptation of the LIB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many land around Schiphol is owned by the government, including provinces and municipalities, or by companies in which the government has an important share, such as Schiphol;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the cultivation of bird-farming crops in areas directly owned by the government;]] [[calls on the government also to come forward with proposals for making these areas less attractive to birds in the other areas around Schiphol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the OVV states in its report that the ILT "has insufficient knowledge and resources to effectively monitor the content of LVNL';]] [[Whereas LVNL plays a crucial role in safety at and around Schiphol;]] [[Whereas LVNL has been inspected by an inspection service with "insufficient knowledge and resources";]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent audit into the functioning of LVNL and in particular its functioning in relation to flight safety at and around Schiphol Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in its report on safety at Schiphol, the Safety Research Council considers that a decision on further growth, before or after 2021, is possible only after the measures recommended in the report have been taken and risks have been structurally reduced now and in the future;]] [[noting that this report was made at the time of 480,000 aircraft movements;]] [[noting that the number of aircraft movements for 2017 was at least 496,000;]] [[calls on the Government to provisionally set the number of aircraft movements for 2018 at 480,000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-267]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-268]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-269]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u292	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u293	I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u294	Mr. Chairman. First of all, two motions. We are very concerned about the situation around the ILT. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas aviation safety control is essential for safety and for confidence and cannot be left to the industry itself;]] [[Whereas there are doubts as to the capacity of the ILT and the robustness of the legal instruments to be maintained;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask the General Court to audit the ILT in relation to its controlling role in aviation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Graus, Mr Van Raan and Mr Laçin.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u295	We are also very concerned about the interference around Schiphol and regional airports. That's already happening around Rotterdam The Hague Airport. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch airspace is already very full;]] [[Whereas interference of routes to and from airports may lead to capacity and security problems;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into security risks that may arise from interference of routes to different airports and the impact of growth on these risks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Brenk and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u296	Finally, a comment on the NLR report. We shall have a separate debate on this. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD concluded from this report that Schiphol can grow safely. However, when I read the report, I note that only 9 out of 36 accident categories were examined in this report. As far as we are concerned, this is not the comprehensive safety analysis Schiphol that is needed. My question to the Minister is therefore what will be done with the other security categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u297	Thank you. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk. It is not yet your turn, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for her first-term reply. I'm filing two motions. They're about the employees who work at Schiphol. The more certain they are, the more quality of work they have and the better safety is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a high workload among air traffic controllers;]] [[Whereas this high workload has a negative impact on safety in and around Schiphol;]] [[Whereas the high pressure on capacity and the maximum number of flight movements at Schiphol Airport puts pressure on the quality of work and therefore safety for airport and air traffic;]] [[Notes that it is important that the issue of labour and safety is explicitly addressed by the government and the airport authorities;]] [[calls on the government to engage with air traffic controllers to reduce the workload and increase safety, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u299	Then we go to the people who work at Schiphol Airport at ground handling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas ground handling workers may be sure to work in a safe working environment;]] [[noting that the NLR identifies the high level of ground-based competition between traders as one of the reasons for the workload of ground-based personnel;]] [[noting that the NLR states that temporary contracts and high staff turnover in groundhandling ensure that workers are less experienced and could lead to an increase in accidents;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with Schiphol to set quality standards for the ground handling parties and to involve workers and employers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u300	I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u301	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for her reply. Many questions have been answered to our satisfaction. We'll wait for the rest. Let me comment on the future-proof and competitive national aviation plan. I think it is very important that it is really a national aviation plan, with a fat Dutch flag - and then a nicer one than it is in this room. What I'm missing is the digitisation of air traffic control. The old tower on Schiphol Airport - which, as far as I'm concerned, can become a national monument - is going to be rebuilt, while it is much cheaper to move the tower, build it completely new and digitize it. The people who have been there know that they are still working with cubes. That's really 50 years back in time. We really need to do something about that. I am going to go back to that in other aviation debates. I hope the Minister will think about that. If we move the tower, a second tower is no longer necessary. The Minister does not need to respond now, but perhaps she can think with her team about how we can better digitize LVNL and make it future-proof. As far as the cloud altimeter is concerned, I'll wait and see. I understand the Minister can't respond one-two-three to that. Actually, I did a little micromanagement. It's very technical. But if you're gonna hear this as a Member of Parliament, you're gonna have to do something with it. I promised those guys I'd do something with it, so I think I should. I was able to tap that bird radar once. I once asked for bird radars and they were also promised by a ruler. Now there are four bird radars and then they weren't there, so that's why I'm trying again. A blessed evening, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u303	And I'll see you tomorrow. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u304	Oh, yeah. Thank goodness, I'd say. Thank you. Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u305	Mr. Chairman. It was a good debate today. We should not use the OVV report and the NLR report as an end point, but as a starting point for improving safety at Schiphol Airport. I think we're already on 13 motions. Thirteen is my lucky number. I will not add a motion, but perhaps I will get a commitment from the Minister. The Minister expresses all kinds of ambitions, which we recognize and which we have also asked for. We would like to receive a letter from the Minister, all of which does not have to be today, which states when we can look at the following matters. One. The work programme with the operational improvements. Two. The designated roadmap. Three. The first state of safety, including ILT security. Four. The Aviation Paper with ambition and vision. Five. The fulfillment of the covenants. If we can get those things in a beef, we can secure everything we've discussed today. Quality is not just today, but everything that can be done today does not have to wait for tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. I think that as MPs we would all like to be pilots or air traffic controllers, but maybe we can't and we don't have the expertise for that. But we have been able to talk about this today and that is why it has been an interesting debate. I do not believe that we can put all kinds of improvements on the table here in the Chamber, but I expect them back in a good work programme that all the parties in the sector have looked closely at. What measure is effective? What are the costs involved? And when do we get the fastest improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u306	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Safety on one; that's what we wanted to hear and that's what we heard. I thank the Minister for expressing her ambition to ensure full security and to agree annually to the state of security. I expect the Minister to embrace our motion and see it as an encouragement of her policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Safety Research Council states that safety improvements should precede the growth of air traffic;]] [[points out that comprehensive safety around Schiphol airport must always be the first starting point of all policies and decisions for all parties involved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u308	Thank you. I would like to come back to the following. It wasn't cynicism when I talked about the quality of the ILT inspectors. In a long time ago, I was chairman of a union that covered those inspectors, so I know what the quality of those people is. But I am concerned about the cuts that have taken place. I look forward to seeing how quality investment is being made. As far as we're concerned, we're confident that's gonna work out. It won't be people's fault. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say that I would also like to join Mr Graus' trip to look at animals at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u309	Look, the group's getting bigger. Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. It's gonna be fun. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Five minutes? There are about 14 motions. Ten minutes? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u310	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not many more questions have been asked, so I can answer them briefly in advance of the opinions on the motions. Mr Amhaouch had asked to receive a whole list of issues concerning the planning of the work programme, the road map, in a letter. I'm not gonna repeat the whole line here. I would suggest that you do so in the letter with the appreciation of the NLR report, which I intend to send to you if we also have the response of the OVV and the To70 report, because most of the issues you mention are related to security. So I will take that as much as possible in that letter. As far as the aviation note is concerned, we can also take it with us, but perhaps we will include it in the collection letter for the forthcoming general discussion on aviation. I hear Mr Amhaouch is satisfied with that. Mr Graus had drawn attention to the digitalisation of aviation and the movement of the tower. He didn't have to answer that now, but he asked me to think about it. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u312	Mr. Graus, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u313	It's also more about whether it can be investigated if moving that tower is cheaper than remodeling, so you only need one tower instead of one large and one small tower. I find that so interesting, because we also have to watch over public money. So that's what it's all about, regardless of digitalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u314	I also understood it as two separate points. So we're looking at digitization widely, and we'll also think about the tower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u315	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u316	Then I'll get to the motions. On the motion at No. 262 I can give judgment Chamber. In the end, the sector must take the measures on the basis of this risk analysis, and the ILT supervises them. But I definitely want to talk to them about it. In his motion in part No. 263 Mr Laçin asked the government to put all plans and discussions on the extension of Schiphol in the refrigerator. Nor will it surprise Mr Laçin that I am going to dissuade him. I have explained my own line in detail: first the factual basis on order, the advice of the ORS, carefully go through all the steps and then a decision by the cabinet. In the motion in part No. Mr Laçin asked the government to play a prominent role in reorganising consultation structures between residents and environmental organisations. That is already a fact in the current ORS table and in other consultative bodies, but you may not think it is good enough. I would like to say that we are going to take a careful look at that. I can therefore give a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u317	Mr. Dijkstra, you don't agree with the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u318	I think all three observations are bullshit. Can they be deleted? Surely we cannot agree that the added value of Schiphol should be contested? Or that it says that the economic importance is always above the environment? Those are political statements. If that's what you think, you'll have to give the motion judgment Chamber, but I don't think she's worthy of judgment Chamber. I shall also vote against on the basis of these strange observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u319	You are right about these observations. If I look closely at that now, I certainly do not agree with that either. I am concerned that I should be able to give a ruling to the Chamber on the request to the government to take the participation of local residents and environmental organisations seriously. It is a fact that the Environment Council disputes this and that different participation platforms do not feel heard. That's up to them, of course. But from the observation that the economic added value has been above that, I have to say that I do not agree with that at all. That statement should therefore be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u320	Are you going to amend your motion to that, Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u321	If you want to take it out, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u322	I think this is a very strange course of action. The Minister gives an opinion on the motion. Mr. Dijkstra makes it a habit of making weird remarks. We have had that debate before. He can vote against this motion. I have no problem with that. He also made it clear in this debate that he was not interested in the interests of residents and the participation of residents. Well, that makes sense. I welcome the Minister's opinion, and I would ask Mr Dijkstra to keep these comments for himself. This is only working against the debate and also what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u323	I am particularly concerned with the request to the government. On the operative part there is indeed something to settle. The request to the government is to give residents and environmental organisations a prominent place in it. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. If I have to respond to every observation in substance, I don't think you'll get a lot of "judge chamber" anymore. Then I come to the motion on part No. 265. It invites the government to make it clear how the additional deployment of staff at the ILT has contributed to more professional knowledge in the inspection and how it is secured, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2018. The ILT program for Schiphol has just started. The recruitment is coming up soon. So the people aren't here yet. Understanding the results of the programme will follow at the end of the year. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is too early to report on this for the summer. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u324	A brief remark, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u325	Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u326	We're working on the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u327	Of course, it's about the motion. The Minister is asking me to hold this motion. Can the Minister live with it if I delete "before the summer" and make it "before the end of the year"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u328	Yeah, that's enough. My commitment is to include this in the State of Security which we intend to send to you at the end of this year. If you want to change that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u329	Is the judgment of the Chamber then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u330	Then the verdict could be on the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u331	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u333	You will have the opportunity to amend your motion until after the February recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u334	Then there is a motion from Mr Dijkstra. That's the motion in part No. 266 on the orbital changes. The motion calls on the government to pay explicit attention to the safety risks that may arise from the agreements on the changes to the new standards and enforcement systems in the decision-making process on the growth of Schiphol. This is in line with the way I have already outlined, which I want to implement and deal with OVV recommendations. So I can also leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u335	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u336	Then the motion to part No. 267. It calls on the government to amend the LIB...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u337	Mr Laçin, do you have a comment on Mr Dijkstra's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u338	I had the impression you weren't entirely in agreement. The motion in part No. 267 calls on the Government to include restrictions on the cultivation of bird-catching crops in an adaptation of the LIB. That motion belonged to Mr Van Raan. I'd like to dissuade them. I have outlined my policy in the answer. This is on a voluntary basis. Putting this into the LIB, intervenes on third party grounds. So we can't do that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 268, including Mr Van Raan. It calls on the government to come forward with proposals for making these areas less attractive to birds in the other areas around Schiphol. I have already indicated that we already have a very comprehensive approach to this. It's been evaluated in the last year. That's a piece the Chamber received, too. I therefore advise against starting something extra for this. The motion in part No. 269 calls on the Government to conduct an independent audit into the functioning of LVNL and in particular its functioning in relation to flight safety at and around Schiphol Airport. I'd like to dissuade them. The ILT does inspections. EASA controls the ILT and also directly LVNL. So it doesn't just depend on the ILT. I see no reason in the OVV report that LVNL would not function, so I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 270. It asks the government to set the number of aircraft movements for 2018 at 480,000. I've been very clear about that. I keep my end of the bargains, and they involve 500,000 aircraft movements. So I'm gonna tell you what I'm gonna do. The motion in part No. 271 calls on the Government to ask the General Court to have an audit of the ILT carried out in relation to their controlling role in aviation. I'd also like to dissuade them, because the OVV has already done research. The ILT has just started the program. I also promised you that at the end of this year I would like to take the results with me in the State of Security. So this motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u339	Mrs Kröger knows that the General Court as High College of State is independent. So perhaps it can be done in a different context than in this motion. There's been one precedent once, but I hope we don't do that more often as a Chamber. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u340	Thank you for giving me this, Mr. Chairman. I have seen a number of examples of motions in which the Chamber asks the government to ask the General Court to examine this issue. I will see if there is another way, but the Minister's answer that 4 fte's has been added and that we just have to look at it is not enough for me. I would really like to see an independent audit of the functioning of the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u341	Mr. Paternotte, the motion has been dissuaded and Mrs. Kröger has responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u342	That's right. I would like to put another question to the Minister. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u343	Well, if it really affects your voting behavior, but not to argue about another's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u344	I expect an amended motion to arrive. That is why I would like to put a question to the Minister. I think the considerations of this motion are very good, because at least we share those concerns very strongly. Of course, the OVV did not look specifically at the aviation sector of the ILT, but indeed made a number of recommendations in the broader report. My question is whether the Minister knows another body she says would be the appropriate party to carry out a specific audit for the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u345	That doesn't change the advice. The ILT program has just started. That's what I've been telling you before. The OVV has looked specifically at ILT's aviation sector in this respect. I see no reason to anticipate this. Let's just give the new system and the new way of working a chance. You will receive the first report on this in the State of Security at the end of this year. The motion in part No. 272 calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the security risks that may arise from interference from routes to different airports and the impact of the growth on risks. I indicated in my first term that there are now no signs of insecurity. There will be a reclassification of airspace, which will include safety as an essential prerequisite. Safety is paramount, even in the growth of Schiphol. The same applies, of course, to other airports. So I would also advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 273. It invites the government to engage with air traffic controllers in order to reduce the workload and increase safety and inform the Chamber before the summer. I would also advise against this motion, because I have already done this. I have already spoken with LVNL and I am confident that the management of LVNL itself addresses this in its approach. So I don't think it's necessary. The motion in part No. 274 calls on the Government to consult Schiphol in order to set quality standards for the ground handling parties and to involve workers and employers. I would also advise against this motion, because Schiphol and the airlines themselves are responsible for good employership. Should this result in security incidents, we will, of course, discuss this in the Security Platform Schiphol, which will become the ISMS. Then it's got a place there. This goes a lot further and that's why I'm not telling you. The motion in part No. 275 belongs to Mrs Van Brenk. She was hoping I'd embrace that motion. Mrs. Van Brenk, that's what I'm gonna do. I can accept this motion because I am very pleased that it says that the complete safety surrounding the air traffic at Schiphol Airport must always be the first starting point of policy and decisions for all concerned. That also seems to me to be a very nice conclusion to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u346	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 275 from Mrs. Van Brenn c.s? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u347	In my second term, I had asked a rather explicit question about the status of this report as an integral safety analysis. I asked why there's a difference. Why were only 9 indicators examined instead of 36? I could also get a written answer to this. I am concerned that, if we have a debate on this, it is clear that this is not the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u348	I can respond to that very briefly. Actually, I thought I said this implicitly. But I'm going to say it again. There will be another appreciation from the Ministry of this report. I will take this aspect into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u349	That is what we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-21-tweedekamer-20.u350	We shall vote on the motions tabled after the recess on Tuesday 6 March. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
