ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mrs Karabulut's questions about the news that Turkish tanks are driving through the Kurdish city of Afrin and thousands are on the run. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I call Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity to ask questions. In a gross violation of international law, NATO ally Turkey invaded 20 January Afrin, a city in northern Syria. The main allies of the West against the Islamic State, the widely praised Kurds, thus became targets of military, aggressive, illegal action. Those who expelled ISIS are now being driven out themselves. Turkey is not going to stop there. They use Islamic terror militias, jihadists who are not inferior to Al-Qaeda and IS. They're Erdogan's mercenaries. There is an ethnic cleansing in which the original population is driven out and a warm nest is created for jihadists. Hundreds, thousands of Kurds, Christians, Jezidi and Arabs have since been expelled from their homes. They have nowhere to go. What to do with these people, I ask the Minister. In the meantime, the jihadists are plundering and destroying everything the inhabitants love. Hundreds of civilians, including children, have been killed. Afrin fell on March 18th. Week in and week out, we have stood here and called for this Turkish action to be condemned. It was quiet. It was deadly quiet. The Netherlands was silent. The international community was silent. The Kurds have simply been betrayed and sacrificed. Again I say: scandalous! It's unacceptable. But there is more, because President Erdogan simply wants to continue, strengthened by Western silence. He has said that he also wants to get hold of other parts of northern Syria, that he wants to expand his influence and that he wants to destroy Kurdish democratic self-government. It can't get that far. So I ask this Minister once more: will the Minister now condemn this illegal aggressive military attack?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut draws attention to the terrible situation in Afrin. I agree with her that the situation there is serious. It is truly terrible for the people, who are partly killed and wounded and partly on the run. It's not the first time we've talked about this. I have already indicated to the Chamber and to Mrs Karabulut that not only am I here in the Chamber expressing my concerns, but that the Netherlands is in a lot of places of concern: directly to Turkey, but also to the UN Security Council, of which we are now President, and at European level. Mrs Karabulut's assertion that the Netherlands was silent is therefore very incorrect. And Mrs Karabulut knows that very well. Indeed, the sounds that have reached us in recent days, so after we have talked about this last time in the Chamber, still give cause for concern. Mrs Karabulut has a point. That is therefore also a reason for me, my colleagues and officials, to continue to let Turkey know our concerns and to continue with the issue of Syria in the UN Security Council and the implementation of the resolution calling for a ceasefire. Next week, as part of our Presidency, I will be in the Security Council on a day when Syria is on the agenda. Here too, I will emphasise the wide-ranging situation in Syria, the importance of a cease-fire and the importance of the civilian population, particularly in the case of Afrin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	"Sorry." 'Putting the issue'. "We speak." We've all heard that in the last few weeks. We have been here for almost two months now, from 20 January, two months, to arrive at a clear statement. The Minister refuses. Not condemning this situation means agreeing not only that the Turks are betraying our main allies, but also that NATO, and with it the Netherlands, is becoming an accessory to these crimes. So, for the last time, I would like to ask the Minister: are you prepared to take this illegal aggressive action... for it is contrary to human rights, it is contrary to international law, it strengthens the position of the jihadists and it ultimately also means that it will affect our security. So I want to ask the Minister: are you going to condemn this now, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	I am glad that Mrs Karabulut is no longer talking about 'the Netherlands' in her second term, because she states in her own contribution that she knows how many times I and others have raised this on behalf of the Netherlands. When it comes to condemning, I indicated in the Chamber last week that the Netherlands condemns the fact that Turkish actions are pulling away our allies in the fight against ISIS, the Kurds, who are fighting against ISIS in the same way as our men and women over Iraq and Syria, from the fight against ISIS, because they became active in Afrin. Nor is it true that the Dutch actions do not find any answer. The United States, not the least NATO ally, has very recently brought out a sharp statement on Afrin. And yesterday, the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr Zeid, also issued a firm statement in the Security Council. So wherever I also indicated to you last week that the Dutch action is effective at the moment we have allies, we also have allies. Effectiveness in terms of the situation of the people in Afrin, the situation of the people in Syria, remains at the heart of our action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	But how can the Minister speak of "effectiveness" when Afrin has now fallen, jihadists settle there, IS once again emerging as a real force that threatens us in that sense? International law is being violated and Erdogan says: have no hope, we are not leaving until the work is done; the European Parliament and others have nothing to say to Turkey. Everything about this goes in one ear and out the other. He wants to conquer the entire north of Syria to carry out that ethnic cleansing there. If the international community, with this minister first, does not condemn it and does not want to impose sanctions for it, then it will continue. Do you know what that means, Mr. Chairman? That means you're an accessory. Is the Minister at least prepared to advocate sanctions in the United Nations, because Turkey is indeed not complying with the UN resolution for a cease-fire? That's the least the minister could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut actually uses very big, incorrect words in every term. "Medical" she says about the Netherlands, while the Netherlands has been leading the way in expressing a strong opinion on Turkey and is not alone in it either. Mrs Karabulut pretends that we should believe here that if the Netherlands were to use other words, then Afrin would not have fallen. That's the kind of naivety we certainly can't achieve. It is essential that we now give the same message to the United States and the High Commissioner for Human Rights. That remains our commitment. It was also discussed at length in the European General Affairs Council yesterday. I have expressed our deep concern and also condemnation of the fact that the Kurdish troops are no longer able to be properly deployed against ISIS. That will always be our line, but always in common. Otherwise, you'll get nothing at all and the people in Afrin won't benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	But my question about what the Minister is going to do and what sanctions he is going to take has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	Then I ask the Minister to go into that. Thank you, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Karabulut is well aware that if other countries do not want to follow us in terms of condemnation, the much sharper instrument of sanctions will certainly not be followed. This also applies if you want a Dutch alley entrance as Mrs Karabulut advocates, which only works to the advantage of Turkey in this case. They will say very triumphantly: look, the Netherlands is calling for sanctions in Mrs Karabulut's proposal, nobody is following them, so we are actually being supported. It is counterproductive what Mrs Karabulut is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	No, this is baiting Ms. Karabulut. Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is quite serious that, with what is going on in Syria and the invasion of the Turks in Afrin, we now have a contest in the House of Representatives about who can use the most firm words. We all think it's terrible what's going on here, but let's see how the Netherlands can act effectively in the world. As a VVD, we have tabled a motion which is widely supported in the Chamber and which calls on the cabinet to condemn the consequences of Turkish action in Afrin and to appeal to the Turks. The Minister then went to the Foreign Affairs Council with that motion. Can he indicate how he carried out this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	To appeal to the Turkish Government, because "to address the Turks" I think is a little... the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. The motion referred to by Mrs Becker was indeed the basis for my contribution yesterday to the European Foreign Affairs Council. I have expressed the great Dutch concern there. I also condemned the withdrawal of Kurdish troops as a result of Turkish intervention. That's where I executed that motion. I will do the same next week in the Security Council in New York.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Horrible what's happening in Northern Syria. We all agree on that. The question is, of course, what happens after Afrin, because that is what we are already doing. The Turks have also indicated their intention to attack Manbee. That's where the Americans are. Is the Minister prepared to consider with the Americans and perhaps other coalition parties, perhaps France, what is possible towards the Turks within NATO? For if we do not move together... I know that there is no majority for it at the moment, but is the Minister prepared to form a coalition of the willing to appeal to Turkey for further expulsion of the Kurds, of the Arabs and of the Christians in Northern Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	Like Mr Voordewind, I have read with concern the announcement that other Kurdish areas such as Manbij will also be attacked by the Turks. Our commitment, yesterday in the European Council and permanently in the Security Council, but certainly also when I am there next week, is indeed to find support for America and other European countries, ultimately to allow Resolution 2401, which calls for a ceasefire in Syria, to take effect. The same applies to Turkey. That's what's gonna have to stick to. In particular, with regard to Turkey, I remain fully committed to addressing Turkey with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, everyone has already indicated, also by you, that the situation in Afrin is degrading and terrible. GroenLinks, too, of course, would like you to always condemn and condemn this. What do you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	What does the Minister think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	What does the Minister think of the idea of asking the UN Security Council next week to send observers on behalf of the UN to the area to at least monitor Turkey as an occupiers of the area and prevent those tanks from rolling further into the area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	I will embrace any instrument that contributes to the position of the citizens. As far as I am concerned, the foundation remains Resolution 2401. Of course, you need a truce to make observers effective, but also to be able to provide humanitarian aid. If I find any room for observers or for another good cause, I will, of course, use it. The challenge really is to get enough countries with it. You know that more countries are members of the Security Council and that they also have a veto. The same applies to Russia, which is an ally of Syria in this fight. That's what makes it difficult. But my commitment will continue to be full of harnessing and magnifying the small space there is to reduce that suffering in Syria to our ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. Terrible what's happening in Afrin. We, too, hold our hearts for what goes on. Understandably, the Minister indicated that we are not really achieving anything on our own, that you really need to exert that pressure with each other. Support that. In the meantime, however, the signal seems to be towards Turkey: you can go ahead, because it will eventually go unpunished. That's what I'm worried about. What possibilities does the Minister now see for actually putting an end to this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u27	I can imagine Mr Van der Staaij saying that his fear is that Turkey's actions will go unpunished. At the same time, I hope that the United States and the High Commissioner for Human Rights have made an explicit statement on Turkey's actions. The Netherlands is a medium-sized country which is highly valued internationally, and with this we have two parties on our side who are expressing themselves very clearly. That is why I am not putting my head in the lap, but I will continue to look for ways of putting pressure on Turkey with these parties and also with other countries, as Mr Voordewind asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, and then we shall proceed with the order of business.
