ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on gas extraction in Groningen. I would like to welcome everyone, especially the people from Groningen, who were already on their way today from 2 p.m. to be here, I understood. I would particularly like to welcome you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	I know that this debate can evoke a lot of emotion. I understand that very well. But it is the intention to show as little of your emotions as possible. Whether it's approval or disapproval, you're trying to hold back a little bit. That's what I wanted to give you. You promised me you'd do the same. Right? No? It's getting off to a good start. In any case, welcome. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs in trade union K. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time has been extended to six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Another major earthquake hitting Groningers. How much can you keep putting people on? With increasing anger, I didn't see our Prime Minister being the prime minister of all the Dutch. I didn't see him being the Prime Minister of the Groningen. Does the Prime Minister think of Groningen as a shithole? Does the Prime Minister see it as Trump? He tells a lot of fact-free nonsense in the media, but in this parliament he does not want to answer. That's how Rutte said that we've only learned in recent years that gas extraction can cause large tremors. If you look at Wikipedia, you can already see that we had severe tremors because of the gas extraction from the eighties and nineties. So I'd like to correct that remark on behalf of the Prime Minister. Then there's the damage protocol. Our Prime Minister said in the media that it was up to the Groningen administrators that there was no damages protocol. Some of them are in the bleachers now. When he realized that that was not true, it was said that it was up to the formation, while Minister Kamp himself decided at the formation to abolish the damage protocol and said that there would be a new damage protocol last July. I would like a commitment from this minister that within two weeks a draft damages protocol, as negotiated within Groningen, will be agreed and then legally anchored. Then there's the damages fund. Our Prime Minister offended the Groningen by saying: yes, a lot of money has already gone to Groningen. In other words, stop whining in Groningen. While there are still thousands of reports of damage and less than half of the gas benefits have gone to Groningen. I would like a commitment from this executive that a national fund under public control will be launched within two weeks. Then residents can just get their damages compensated and the State can stand between Shell, Exxon and the residents. Then anyone who has been compensated for any damage can go to war with Shell and Exxon. Can this minister explain why there is a division in the damage of 65% for the State, 18% for Shell and 18% for Exxon? I don't understand. Can the Minister explain why the State is contributing nearly 50 million to the so-called market-based reorganisation of the NAM? How is that possible? Then I come to my question from the motion whether the NAM can pay the damages now and in the future. It may take decades for damage to occur, damage to be compensated and new damage to occur. We know that from Limburg, among other places. How do we know for sure that the NAM will still be able to pay those damages in 10, 20, 30 years? This minister has said that he is going to talk to Shell and Exxon and that they must have enough money for that. That doesn't comfort me very much. I'd like it in black and white. Otherwise there is the possibility under the Mining Act: if a company does not have sufficient financial security, you cannot give it new permits. That could be done by this minister. Then the gas extraction. I've been telling you since January 2013 that we need to bring gas extraction down. With the SodM I said that it should go down as far as possible as realistic as possible. Today, too, that is my clear appeal to this government. It's too bad we're gonna need a heavy quake before we get there. Because that quake is there, isn't it, Minister? According to the coalition agreement, gas extraction would simply remain above 20 in the next five years, and only because we now have that quake, there is a possibility to do justice to the Groningen people here. So I would also like to make a decision on further reduction in gas extraction within two weeks. This minister can draw on studies by ECN from 2015 and factsheets from, for example, Milieudefensie from 2016. Then he sees how the use of gas and therefore the extraction of gas can actually go down. For large tremors, so Groningers tell me, they often see large-scale torching. They think they see a pattern in that, because if you flar, it might cause a drop in pressure and could cause a tremor. Is this Minister prepared to let the SodM sort that out properly so that, if that is one of the reasons and perhaps the trigger for that earthquake, we can stop doing so? Then there's the security of supply. Our Prime Minister said the extraction couldn't be reduced because of security of supply. Meanwhile, 2017 was a record year in exports of Groningen gas. Can this minister explain how these two statements can be combined? So I would like to get a commitment that the seven large companies in the Netherlands that use Groningen gas are switching to other gas, that SMEs are handling gas much more efficiently and that we are only exporting Groningen gas if it concerns foreign citizens who, if they do not have gas, are in the cold, but not for profit and not for generating electricity. And please don't say that the House of Representatives was there too. For under Rutte II and Rutte III there were an incredible amount of unimplemented motions and even a whole set of unimplemented amendments. The reason: often it turned out that the NAM disagreed. That brings me to my final point. Can the government stand up to the wishes and demands of Shell and Exxon? If that's not the case, we'd like to hear it. Because then we as one people with all the directors, municipalities, provinces and the Empire can stand up to Shell and Exxon and say that all Dutch people should be able to live in the Netherlands in a normal way: come out of their bed safely in the morning and quietly in the evening. Groningen deserves a new perspective. That's where this minister can start tonight. I expect him to make some firm commitments on the points I have made. Then I brought the "Groningen gas winning stories: The prize for sixty years of Dutch prosperity" for our Prime Minister to deepen. I would like to give this to this minister through the messenger to give it to our Prime Minister. Let him read this right. Then, if he says anything about Groningen again in the media, he'll be a little better substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. As annoying as I am to start my contribution with these words, the earthquake in Zeerijp did not come unexpectedly before the NAM. In the latest risk analysis, the NAM estimates the risk of a severe earthquake at 16%. The question was not whether there would be another major earthquake, but if it were to come. That question is still topical as long as the NAM continues to gain gas on this scale. It could happen again. Mr. Chairman. Two things are very important for today. The first is for the very short term: how do we repair and pay the damage that has occurred as a result of this earthquake? And then for the long term: how do we prevent new damage caused by gas extraction? In other words, how do we minimize the risk of new earthquakes? But first of all I would like to talk about the damage that has occurred in the recent earthquake and in the earthquakes before it, because the damage protocol, which has been promised a long time ago, is still not in place. That damage protocol was supposed to be here on July 1st. Since March last year, no new damage has been dealt with. Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that this is unacceptable for a long time? About why it takes so long, fog has been created over the past few days. That started when last Friday, after the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister specifically asked Groningen to cooperate with us to quickly establish a damages protocol, to return to his words two days later, Sunday in Buitenhof. It wasn't Groningen, it was the long formation. I don't understand. In June, the Prime Minister said that the formation was no obstacle to action. He even called that "statutory bullshit." In addition, the new cabinet was presented on 26 October and the government agreement was already presented on 10 October, while a draft damages protocol was sent to the Ministry in early October. How then can this delay be due to the long formation, which was already practically finished at the time? I would like clarification from the Minister on this. This afternoon it became clear that a damage protocol might be further away than ever, as the Groninger Soil Movement steps out of the consultation around the damage protocol. The Groninger Soil Movement is no longer in agreement with the new concept, which is a stripped-up version of the proposal made by the region in October last year. Essential elements would have been deleted. I think this is an extremely worrying development. Groningen is not waiting for further delay. And Groningen isn't waiting for a flawed damage protocol at all. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on stepping down from the Groninger Soil Movement. What's the Minister gonna do to win back the trust? And what can he do to ensure that there is a proper damage protocol in the short term? A damage protocol that is widely supported in Groningen, because that support is essential. How is the Minister going to ensure that the damage protocol comes in a few weeks and above all that it doesn't become a pubic? The National Ombudsman talks about an irrefutable administrative klutz between reporting and dealing with the damage in Groningen. How's the Minister gonna solve that? Then the level of gas extraction. The earthquakes will only be reduced if gas extraction is drastically reduced, and not with just 0.4 billion cubic tons of gas per year, as stated in the coalition agreement. That amounts to a lousy 1.7% reduction per year. Today exactly five years ago, on 16 January 2013, State surveillance of the Mines wrote in an opinion: Production speed should be reduced to around 12 billion cubic metres per year to minimise the risk of earthquakes. Only then, at 12 billion cuub gas less, will there be no more quakes of 1.5 on the Richter scale or more in the long term. In everything up there, Groningen must continue to take into account earthquakes. Last November, the Council of State destroyed the Minister's decision to let NAM pump gas out of the ground for another five years. The Minister should have been more aware of the safety importance of the inhabitants of the gas extraction area and should have explored the possibilities for further reduction of gas extraction. He has to make a new decision on the extraction of gas in Groningen within a year. This is an excellent time to bring gas extraction back to the safe level of 12 billion cubic metres as soon as possible. In the media, the minister indicated that his gas production could be reduced faster than the coalition agreement. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, it is reduced to 12 billion cubic metres per year, and then gradually reduced to 0. I'd like a response from the Minister. What measures is the Minister going to take to actually reduce gas consumption? Is he going to tighten up the decision to remove the gas connection obligation for new construction, so that there will be a ban on connecting new homes to the gas grid? Or is he going to make the connection of new homes to the gas grid significantly more expensive, so that it pays to build alternative ways of heating and cooking? How is he going to accelerate the unbundling of existing homes from the gas grid? And how is he going to handle the use of gas in business? Finally, Mr President. The government wants to remove the dividend tax. In the meantime, the Prime Minister has admitted that he does not know whether it will help to keep companies here. Isn't it better to use that 1.4 billion to accelerate the removal of natural gas and make Groningen a sustainable energy province instead of a fossil energy province? After all, we know that it works. The future of energy supply is sustainable. It's wonderful if Groningen can play a prominent role in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, I felt the earth tremble beneath me. One moment you hope it's a truck. One moment you hope it's a small earthquake. But it soon became clear: it is wrong, very wrong. I try to control myself, but there hasn't been one week in my life that I've been so angry, so sad, so betrayed and perhaps as desperate as last week. It's feelings that a lot of Groningers share. Nearly 3,000 damage reports, five buildings acutely unsafe, three of which are prone to collapse. Mr. Chairman. What hurts so much is that these earthquakes aren't stupid bad luck. These earthquakes are the result of human choices, of political choices. Over the past few years, we have repeatedly asked for this gas extraction to be reduced to a safe level. In recent years, we have demonstrated Groningers to be heard. We've gone to court several times to fight for our safety, because our government failed to do so. We have argued quietly, but also shouted, cursed, cried and sometimes even begged: do not do it to us; opt for safety instead of profit! My first question here in the Chamber was: how long are we going to let this happen? And now the government has let it happen again. Mr. Chairman. Groningen hasn't mattered enough to put our safety first for years. One of the victims sitting here in the gallery said it nicely: "That's humiliating." It hurts so much to watch my beautiful province suffer, but even more hurts the government's reaction to what happened last Monday. Before the elections, they were there, in the list-leader debate in the North, all the way to Groningen, as it is called on public service broadcasting. We got a beautiful promise on a beautiful promise. Zijlstra: "Security must be at the forefront." Pechtold: "As far as I'm concerned, gas extraction eventually goes to zero." Buma: "It is primarily about providing safety. If this bubble had been under The Hague, the gas crane would have closed long ago." Segers, who took the lead the day before in a torch ride against gas extraction and insecurity: "If Pechtold says it has to go to zero, I agree with him." What I find painful is that we look back on broken promises. In June, in the middle of the formation, Rutte was in Groningen. He promised speed. He called it "statutory bullshit" that no decisions could be taken during the formation. He also said, "If Groningen needs something, it gets it." After 225 days of forming, we got a coalition agreement stating that gas extraction will remain the same for the next two years. There was nothing clear as to how the damage would be dealt with quickly, properly and independently. Groningen got a tip. Mr. Chairman. What hurts is the reaction of the government after Monday, the day for which we feared for years that it would come. We now need leaders with decisiveness. Instead, we are told that the Minister may not come up with the first plans to shut down the gas tap until March, so after winter. And that while the State surveillance of the Mines has declared code red and while we have always been told that there would be a hand win on the crane, so that immediate action could be taken if things went wrong. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, we are asking for action from the cabinet. Not a Prime Minister who blames the Groningen people for not having a damage protocol on Friday and returns to it on Sunday and says sorry, but leaders with vision and courage. It's not a piece of cake, it's a piece of work. Within two weeks measures to close the gas tap and immediately follow the advice of the monitoring, with safety at the forefront. A phasing-out plan to go back this period to 12 billion cube. Negotiations for a new damages protocol are already failing before the start. The government hires an expensive Zuidas consultancy firm to reduce costs and takes not the principles of the region but principles supported by the NAM as starting point. Irresistible. Crucial for a damage protocol with support is support from the Groninger Soil Movement and from the Gas Council. Now they are not threatening to participate in the consultation because it is not the proposal of the region that is the starting point. We are now demanding firm commitments. Stop with the consultancy office and just talk, with the plan of the region, with an entirely independent fund and the reversal of the burden of proof as a starting point, with no more contour lines being drawn on a map. We do not want real investment in the region, with plans made by the region itself, to be tips. Groningen has a wonderful past, which is now crumbling under our eyes. We want our past and our future back. For us, it is impossible for this debate to end without these concrete actions. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has been responsible for the situation since 2010, seven exceptionally lean years for Groningen. It has been warned for years that this would happen if there were no intervention. That didn't happen enough. The government's initial response is far from giving sufficient confidence that it will happen. The Prime Minister does speak to the media and calls himself the primary responsibility, but he is not here tonight in the Chamber. This was supposed to be a debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	We want a new debate with the Prime Minister in two weeks' time, in which we are going to talk about the concrete actions of the last few weeks. Mr. Chairman. For some people, Groningen may be a long way away, but for me, it's where I'm getting away, mien laand. Stop the humiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. For a long time, a large part of our country used the gas stove without thinking. The use was self-evident and the stock that was still available was hardly anyone's concern. Especially in the sixties and seventies of the last century it was impossible. And that time is way behind us. In recent years, we have realised that the gas supply in Groningen is limited. It is also clear that mining is increasingly leading to earthquakes that are also increasing in intensity. It is not for nothing that winning gas creates great resistance among many local residents and stakeholders in Groningen. There is much unrest, uncertainty, anger and damage. Damage to historic buildings, business premises or home of a Groningen family. Last week's huge earthquake underlined the urgency once again. The unrest and uncertainty are also felt in the rest of our country. In addition to the sympathy with the Groningen people are also concerned about what the consequences will be when the Groningen gas runs out. It is not clear to them whether they will incur all kinds of additional costs. Should pipes be replaced and new devices purchased? Can they still use their gas stove? Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about dealing with the damage suffered by Groningers. That damage must be repaired. We can't be clear enough about that. At the end of March last year, it was agreed that the NAM would withdraw from the treatment of the damage caused by the tremors. People who had suffered a lot of damage found it, to put it mildly, very annoying that they had to relate in the old protocol to the mighty NAM, and very understandable. It is precisely to make this different that it has been said: we come to a new protocol with the province and the municipalities and the NAM gets away completely. But the Groningers have been waiting a long time for this new protocol. I think I have an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yes. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In March Zijlstra said: safety must be first. In June, Prime Minister Rutte said we need to speed up. Do you think that since then speed and safety have been paramount?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	I have just said in my speech: Groningers have waited too long for this. I cannot say here that a protocol has been speeded up, because it is not there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	Your party has delivered the Prime Minister for the last seven years. Rutte has been Prime Minister of the Netherlands for seven years. Last year it seemed as if he was speaking for the first time in the program Jinek a Groninger. The plan to abolish the dividend tax, a nice gift for Shell, was there in two weeks. Groningers have been asking for a plan for years, and there's nothing left. Do you agree with me that this is outrageous?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	In recent years, gas extraction has been reduced by almost 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	I am going to call on you to hold back, because the debate must also be a bit orderly. If you keep screaming or something in between, it's a little tricky. I hope you can understand that. I call Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we really want to take steps here for the Groningen people, then we will actually have to be and then we will have to look at reality. You have just heard me say, as is stated in the coalition agreement and as this Minister has said on several occasions, that gas extraction must go down. You also heard the Minister say he's coming up with a plan on how to do it faster. You have literally heard him say: if that can be done even faster than in the coalition agreement, then we are going for it. You will hear further on in my text that the VVD will support that. At the same time, the truth is I'm laying down the facts as they are and we have to be honest about the fact that the crane can't close today, otherwise we'll all be in the cold tomorrow, Groningers and the rest of the Netherlands. That too is a reality. I can't make it any simpler, but we can make sure that we provide clarity to the Groningers and to the rest of the Netherlands, who also cares, so that we can move on. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	But in fact we have to observe that Groningen has just been cheated over the past few years? Because we were promised that the crane would be won by hand and that the crane could be turned directly if something went wrong. For seven years, Prime Minister Rutte has been responsible for this, but in fact there is still no plan to put security first. In fact, isn't that a great shame? I hope you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	As I said: we will turn the crane off as soon as possible, in a way that is responsible for both Groningen and the rest of the Netherlands. That is not easy and that is not a desirable answer, I realize, but certainly on these kinds of difficult issues, which affect people so directly into their lives, I think it is our responsibility, even here in this Chamber, to stand for the choices we have made with each other and their consequences. The consequence if we turn off the gas tap today is, firstly, that we do not even know what that means for the earthquakes, but that is a completely different story, and secondly, that we will all be in the cold tomorrow. We need to cut down gas extraction quickly. You can see that there are a lot of measures in the coalition agreement to that effect. You will hear this minister, who is only a few months away, say from day one: if I can take more action, I will do so; if I can go beyond the objectives of the coalition agreement, I will do so. You belong to the coalition, and I believe that the opposition is constantly saying: fine, then we support it too. So everything is being done about it. We are here today to ensure that we are clear as soon as possible, because that is, as far as I am concerned, the biggest concern this evening. I want people to know what they're up to. That shouldn't take months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	I would have liked to put this question to the Prime Minister, but unfortunately there is no one, so I would ask him to my colleague in the VVD. Your superior, Mr Rutte, has said that it has taken a very long time, and I hear you say that, and that the reason for this was the long formation. Then I am curious about the following: was there in the formation one party that was difficult about the support to Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	If I may take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the other parties: no, of course not. You have seen what is in the coalition agreement. Groningen is a very important priority within the coalition agreement. I can't explain what happened in the last few months, because I wasn't sitting there at the table. It's important to me that it doesn't take months. I just said in my speech: I can very well imagine that people are very frustrated. I can only endorse that. What is very important now is that the directors, both in The Hague and those in the province and the municipalities, come together and arrange this. This shouldn't take months. I think that's the thing. We can talk about administrative and bureaucratic aspects all night long, but that does not help the Groningers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	So do you agree that the length of the formation is actually a very lame excuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	It was the circumstances that led us to stand here. If you're asking me if I'm happy with that, I'm saying no, but it's where we are right now. It's been the circumstances that's taken a long time. The formation has lasted much longer than anyone in this room wanted. Several drivers need to agree on the future and perspective of Groningen and the way in which we are going to shape the compensation. All these things put together make us stand here now. I would like to say this, Mr President. I dare say here that there is no one, not in the cabinet, not in the coalition, and I really do not believe in the opposition, who thinks: mwah, Groningen, whatever. It affects all of us. We all want to do it right, and I think we all suck that it's not going well. That's where we're standing with each other now. You can criticise the way it has been handled, but not the intentions of the people who are working hard to do it as well as possible, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mrs. Sazias, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	Rounding up. Then that priority was clear for a long time and there was absolutely no need to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	Just when it was about gas extraction, the public gallery reacted indignantly. Mr President, you rightly said that you should not do that. But I understood that very well. It is a year after Huizinge, where a record quantity of gas has been extracted, namely 54 billion cubic metres. It's a year after the biggest earthquake we've had. I understand very well that people get pissed off when you say it's 60% less. They're just right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	It doesn't make much sense to take each other very seriously there, but I get it. My question concerns the extraction of gas in the future. Is the VVD prepared to go in the direction of 12 billion cubic metres during this cabinet period through the construction of a nitrogen plant, by reducing export contracts and by moving to the use of other gas in the large business, so that at the end of the cabinet period we reach that relatively safe level of 12 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	I understand that Mr Nijboer of the PvdA says: let us not look to the past but to the future. Until recently, his party was still part of the cabinet. He's criticizing my party now, but it was just the two of us, Mr. Nijboer. Anyway! I agree that we will have to look to the future, because that is the only place where the solutions are. You have heard the Minister say in recent days that he will come up with scenarios in the shortest possible time to bring down gas extraction even faster than is currently the case in the coalition agreement. If that can happen responsibly, in such a way that we are not all in the cold the next day but that it is well arranged, he will come up with those scenarios and say: look, people, if we can, then we will go even further than the coalition agreement; this is what we are going to do. I hope those scenarios are there. I have the confidence that the Minister is taking a very serious look at it and letting it all go through. That's what we all want to know. What's that look like? As long as it happens responsibly and in a way that we can all wear it, you will find the VVD by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	I never like to get down in debates like that. That 54 billion cube was a disgrace. Everyone has acknowledged that, and your own party at that time, by the way. At that time, the NAM did so on the basis of contracts that could still be concluded, but that didn't look like anything at all. The VVD didn't think that was a good thing at the time, and the PvdA certainly didn't. The opposition as a whole did not agree with that either. But I would like to achieve something in this debate. I am trying to hear the positive things and I hear you say now: if we can go to the 12 billion cub at the end of this cabinet period, then the VVD agrees with that. Then we're willing to do that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	You will hear me say: reduce as quickly as possible. I can't calculate for you what a responsible number would be. I know there are several investigations. I know that 12 billion is mentioned, I know that other numbers are mentioned. I only need to pretend here with each other that we know exactly what that limit is and how we can get there, so that it is, simply put, safe and we also have enough heat. I'm just going to have to send everyone home with that, and then say in a month's time: well, that number wasn't right either. I'm not gonna do that here. I am standing here so that we can provide clarity, so that the minister and the leaders in the province and the municipalities can get to work, so that there is clarity. Then I am not going to philosophize here about amounts or numbers circulating in different surveys. The Minister comes up with a plan based on the question: can it be reduced faster? If so, we'll see how and hopefully we'll find each other in it. If not, there will undoubtedly be a basis under which we all understand why this is not justified. Those are the choices we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	I didn't just mention the 12 billion, like: that seems like a good number and we can get it. That's the advice of state surveillance of the mines. So that's where we need to go, to get it safe as soon as possible. That's where we need to go. Do you agree to this objective? You now say 'I want to clarify' and this and that, but I do not hear a clear answer to that. Previous speakers, such as Mrs Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg, were very clear. They said we should get there as soon as possible. So is the PvdA. GroenLinks will be, too. So is the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	The VVD fully supports the objective that we should reduce as quickly as possible, whether that is to 12 billion or to any number that is said to be: we can simply achieve this; this can be done. Then we must also have an alternative. Then you must also have other sources of energy, on a large scale. Then you must be able to make that shot. There are a lot of aspects to it. It is very easy for me to say now: yes, we are going to do that. Maybe I'll get a round of applause somewhere. We can do all that, but we can't do it right now, so I'm gonna fit in now. I'm not gonna do that. I want us to be able to live up to what we are saying here and then to clarify it. That's what I care about, and that's what I stand for. Whatever number that means, at the moment it can be justified and safe you will see the VVD as a serious partner. Then we'll see what it looks like, but I'm not gonna say anything for applause right now. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	The VVD said safety is paramount. That is indeed very nice to hear, but I wonder why the VVD does not stay with the 12 billion. I'm gonna try again anyway. Five years ago, the State surveillance of the mines said that 12 billion cubic metres per year had no chance of earthquakes. It may not be completely zero, but it is as small as possible. Later, higher numbers were mentioned, but it was said that there would be an acceptable risk. But "acceptable risk" applies only to reinforced houses. Does the VVD agree with me that the damage has to go to zero and that we not only want to protect reinforced houses, but also old farms and churches? And that we should just keep the chance of earthquakes as low as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	I fully agree with that. I fully agree that everything we do should be aimed at getting the damage to zero, that people can sleep in their own homes quietly and with a sense of security, including farms and historic buildings. Suppose you ask me, "Dilan, do you want to go to 12 tomorrow?" Then I must say to you: 'What energy source is ready to use so that Groningers and the rest of the Netherlands are not in the cold?' I want to be able to live up to it, and I want to make sure that that's the number where it's safe. What I ask you, through the President, is to give the Minister the opportunity to look at what can and what that means, so that we know exactly what it is about. That's important to me. It's not that I refuse to mention a certain number. I want that safety and I want it in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes, but that's important news, because the VVD says: we also want to go to 12, we're just going to see how we're going to get there. Perhaps we can come to that during this debate and otherwise in the very short term. The fact that the VVD says that it is also the starting point for it to have as little as possible "zero" earthquakes means, in my view, that the VVD also strives for 12 billion cubs per year and then in the longer term all the way to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	That is Mr Wassenberg's interpretation. It's possible. I say it must be safe and responsible. I want to see the scenarios in which that can be done, what that means and what number is attached to it. Then I can back it up, then I can explain and then I can give people clarity and certainty. That's how it works. You mention that number and you quote an investigation. There are different views. I want certainty, including for myself, so I have some explaining to do. I therefore agree with you on the objective. We want it safe and we want it accounted for. We don't want any damage and we don't want anyone in the cold. That balance, I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	Okay, but that's an acceptable risk. Acceptable seismicity is insufficient for the VVD. The VVD wants to go to zero, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	Of course, everyone wants to go to "no more damage." May I add something to this, Mr. Chairman? I know that Mr Wassenberg has been very well read on this subject and knows it very well. It's also a fact that if you compare it, also globally, so win gas, stop and the extent to which you do it, you don't know what happens then. We don't know if the tremors will stop when we stop. This is such a complex problem. That is why I use so many words: not because I do not want to answer, but because I want to be clear. It's not black and white. We cannot say with one sentence, with one objective: it is resolved, you are all going to sleep peacefully. I want to be able to give people certainty, but then I have to see that balance and understand the consequences. I assume that everyone is going to be able to do so because in a moment I will be getting an interruption that points to the 12 billion, also says to want to know what that means next. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	No, no, no. You've had your turn three times, Mr. Wassenberg. Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mrs Yeşilgöz is new to the dossier. I will leave the facts about the exact number that the government has brought down or what the judge has done in the middle. Maybe we can go over history together later. However, as a member of the VVD Group, the largest government group in this Parliament, Mrs Yeşilgöz has agreed to the coalition agreement. What does she think of the fact that it took a heavy quake to realize that the coalition agreement was not a good one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	I think the coalition agreement's pretty good. We say it's going down. I think we invest a lot in other sources of energy, so that everyone in the Netherlands can get rid of the gas in the long run. Then we can all live without gas, using other sources of energy. This is the greenest cabinet ever. There's a lot of bets on that. The Minister has been saying from the beginning, since he went to Bonn, that I am going for higher goals and higher ambitions; if I can do that, I will come back to you and I will even bring the coalition agreement to a higher level. But the Minister also says, "I'm gonna see if I can make that happen." So there is a huge ambition, which is higher than all the ambitions for it, and we have a minister who says: I'm going to see if I can even get on with it, but just give me a moment to get on with it. That's what we stand for. So I am very pleased with the coalition agreement. At every stroke to make it better, wherever possible, we're gonna find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	The coalition agreement states that gas extraction remains above 20 billion cubic metres. This minister has done other things, but this is about your own responsibility, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I can imagine that you have not quite mastered the file for the past five years, but you have agreed to a gas extraction that is above 20 billion cubic metres. I hear you say very nice things at the beginning of your input. Then you say: I also want it to go down. This means that a heavy earthquake in Groningen, more misery for the Groningen people and damage were needed for the VVD group to say: that gas extraction must indeed go down. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	You have seen that the VVD has signed the coalition agreement. You have also heard the VVD say for this: it must be able to go down in such a way that we can achieve that transition. I'm new to this file, but I'm not from an egg. I find it a little difficult for the debate to pretend that there will be no problem if we stop winning gas tomorrow. That is not the case, because then we are in the cold. That is why this coalition agreement invests hugely in green energy. All new builds need to get rid of the gas. Old neighborhoods are on the gas and we need to change that. We're gonna have it next week, hopefully, about the FAT Act, the Progress Act energy transition. Then we're gonna talk about getting the gas off. At all levels, it is invested to make that change. That's the point. The coalition agreement states what we now believe is feasible, but the Minister has said: if there is more, I will come back to you. We hope there'll be more, but we'll have to see the basis. We're gonna have to see if it's real soon. We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	In January 2013, the regulator, the SodM, said that gas extraction should go down as soon as possible, towards 12 billion cubic metres. That didn't happen all that time. Studies were then carried out. In 2015, ECN researched how to reduce gas consumption, not only within the Netherlands but also abroad. No action has been taken. Then 2017 was a record year for the export of Groningen gas. So all these things point a different direction. And then it takes a massive earthquake before there may be any movement in the file. So I have the same question as my colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	If the SodM once again gives the opinion that 12 billion cuub is the safe limit, with the chance of these severe earthquakes really going very far down, will the VVD Group support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	This is a repeat of an earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	Shall I continue with my speech, Mr President? I'd like to dwell on the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	I'll see you back at the interrupting microphone, Mrs. Beckerman. You'll have the floor in a minute. However, I would like to suggest that Mrs Yeşilgöz continue her speech, because we have now had this round of interruption. You will have the opportunity to interrupt, otherwise we will continue to repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	We were just talking about the various reasons why the damage protocol has been delayed for so long. I can very well imagine that the people of Groningen have no message of that administrative complexity that we stand for. Just sort it out, it sounds like. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan het hier hartgrondig mee eens zijn.]] I know this minister feels this impatience, too. I hear him and the Prime Minister saying recently that a new damages protocol should be settled as soon as possible. We owe it to the Groningen people to meet here when. No more months. This has to go around now. I would like to know from the Minister what is now being done to get this done. I would like to reassure you that a new damage protocol will be settled within a few weeks at most. It can't take months. I would also like to know what is going on with the clean slate procedure for the old reports. I would also like to look at other ways to relieve people. VNO-NCW and the University of Groningen, for example, come up with the idea of setting up a cooperative that buys homes from people who want to sell their homes. They can then rent the house back from the cooperative. I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of this proposal and perhaps from other creative proposals in which we can relieve the people of Groningen even more. The only structural solution to ensure the safety of the Groningen people is, as we have just discussed, less gas extraction. It should also be noted that we do not know exactly what less gas extraction means directly to the quake hazard. But for the VVD it is obvious: that gas crane needs to be closed further and further. We do have to deal with the fact that at the moment simply are not enough alternatives to gas. Households are largely dependent on gas. It is therefore understandable that many Dutch households both sympathize with Groningers and at the same time worry about what the crane would mean for them. Gas extraction must be brought down in a responsible manner. This cabinet is also clear about this, but even if it can be done faster than in the government agreement, with security of supply and in a safe way, then the VVD will support it. The Minister has indicated that he will examine what scenarios are possible. I would like to know when he thinks he can inform us about this. Today I would like to mention two concrete steps for reducing gas consumption in our country, i.e. less gas extraction. I have just said it in the interrupting debate: I would like to point out the amendment tabled by my predecessor, Mr Bosman, to the FAT Act. The legal treatment Progress Energy transition will probably be on the agenda next week or the following week. The amendment tabled by my predecessor, Mr Bosman, stipulates that the gas connection obligation should be abolished in areas designated to become gas-free. I expect to be able to deal with this matter quickly here, and I also expect my colleagues to support that amendment. In addition, the VVD wants people who want to get rid of the gas at home to make this easier, faster and cheaper by permanently sealing the gas connection. This possibility is not available at present. I'm considering a motion on this point. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to a measure like this. The gas from Groningen is not only used by Dutch households, but is also exported to countries around us. In an earlier debate, the Minister indicated that exports could not simply stop, and that households would also be in trouble, and that we would be contractually bound to do so, but that we would end it as soon as possible. I would like to know how the talks with the importing countries are going at the moment, because we really need to achieve this reduction. I think we'll find each other in that, too. I read recently that we may be getting another record with exports these months. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is really not the intention. As far as we are concerned, we are not going to export any more than the agreement and we are simply going to take a lot of action. I would like a response and a commitment from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	I hear Mrs Yeşilgöz talking like this is a new problem, as if we haven't known for years that gas extraction needs to be reduced. I would like to make a very specific proposal which would allow gas extraction to go down all this time to 13 billion cubic metres. Since 2014 we can already build a factory near Zuidbroek with which we can reduce that gas extraction. Minister Kamp has postponed that decision time and time again. The very first decision that Minister Wiebes made was to postpone that matter again. If you do not want to put the households in the cold, you agree with me that it is absurd that both Minister Kamp and Minister Wiebes have postponed that decision over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	Of course, it's not a new problem. We have not only talked about it in this Chamber very often. We've all been to Groningen a lot. We have our own family and friends living there. I have colleagues from the VVD who work hard every day. I think this is something we're fighting very hard for. We also need to make it clear now. The question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	Can I still answer the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A nitrogen factory would not be my first option for a number of substantive reasons, but let me finish my sentence. I told you before, we want to get rid of the gas in the Netherlands. Then you have to invest in clean energy. That's different from what you're proposing, where you convert high-caloric gas to low-caloric gas and can use it in a different way. That's a gas activity. That's actually the extension of that, whereas most of us don't want it anymore. So that wouldn't be my first option. I would like to ask the Minister whether he takes that into his scenarios and how he sees it. We are discussing here how we can clarify as soon as possible and start with less gas as soon as possible. The tricky thing about this story is it's gonna take a while to set this up. We have also discussed this in previous debates. For these substantive reasons, this would not be my first option, but I would ask the Minister how he views it in the whole of the scenarios he is currently examining.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	I hear Mrs Yeşilgöz hiding behind those households that are getting cold. But it is precisely the VVD that has repeatedly stopped proposals on a proposal in recent years to reduce gas extraction. Now there's no plan and you say no again. Do you agree with me that within two weeks there should be a plan with concrete proposals to reduce gas extraction? In two weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr President, I realise that it may not be entirely part of this debate. But when I hear that nothing has been done to bring down gas extraction while it has been done, while we are one of the most innovative countries in the world in order to generate clean energy, to stimulate innovation and to make sure that there is an alternative, I think: well, you might want to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'll hold, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr President, that reaction comes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mrs Yeşilgöz wasn't finished yet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	I wasn't finished with my answer. On the one hand, a great deal is being done about it and on the other hand, I would also like to say that I am curious about how the Minister looks at it and whether this could be done in the scenarios. A nitrogen factory takes a lot of time. It is not the development that we want to really bring down the gas, to make sure that we are really gasless in this country. I'd like to do it with each other as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	I think that cold is coming to the stands because it is incredibly painful to hear that you are doing everything you can to bring down gas extraction. With a lot of the people here in the gallery, I demonstrated and went to court. It was the judge who reduced gas extraction, not your prime minister. I think that's why people here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	It was time and again the Groningers themselves who had to fight for a reduction in gas extraction. It was time and time again that the Groningers themselves had to go to court. Groningers are tired of getting them right in court. That is why I ask you one more time: can we please agree that there is a concrete plan within two weeks, so that we do not have to wait until March? Waiting two months is too long. Can we please meet tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	It seems to me that we expect a plan from the Minister as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	I heard Mrs Yeşilgöz say that exports could not go down because of contracts with abroad. Did Mrs Yeşilgöz see those contracts? Did she look at what's being traded on the spot market? Does it know the state of play of short-term contracts still concluded by GasTerra with abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	It is quite right that my colleague from GroenLinks should address this point, because we have also had a debate on this before. What I want to say here and what I said last time, wherever I called on the Minister, is that we can get rid of it as quickly as possible and that they will also go down there with their gas consumption or at least their imports. That's what we're here for. So, Minister, go talk to those countries, come back. That's why I'm asking for it now. How's it going? And I want to take it down. At the same time, when they have no alternative, they are also in the cold. I realize it's not a great story for now, but that's also a fact. So that's why I'm asking the Minister these questions now. I fully agree with GroenLinks when they say: we should also reduce that. The Minister answered that correctly last time, and he said: I am working on it. So I'm asking for progress now and suggest that we continue to do so together, until we can control that part as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	This is another replay of moves. I really think we should make some progress. If you have a new point, you may ask that question, but to ask the same question in a different way is not really conducive to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	I wanted to ask Mrs Yeşilgöz if she would join me in calling on the Minister to give the Chamber access to these contracts, because I have never been able to do so in the five years on this dossier. So we do not know at all whether it is just to keep the houses warm abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	Before Mrs Van Tongeren continues: this is yet another time you will applaud. I understand the emotions very well, but it's very difficult for MPs. I know, for some, they don't, because they get that applause. However, I would like to appeal to you not to do so. Otherwise, I will be forced to suspend the sitting, and I do not want to do so in such a debate. So please try to hold back. You were ready, Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	I had asked whether we could call the Minister together, because the Chamber should check, so we would like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	I suggest that we ask the Minister to respond to this, in any case how it stands with those importing countries to consult on how to reduce it. And I suggest that Mrs Van Tongeren should be able to ask the Minister about these contracts in the event of interruption. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb de vragen die ik had voor de minister gesteld en ik hoop daar ook antwoord op te krijgen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday at 3:00 p.m. I sat at the kitchen table in Appingedam. I was there to talk to residents about the problems caused by gas extraction. While we were sitting there, the messages were pouring in. Fortunately, we hadn't felt anything there, but it was hit again: the worst earthquake since Huizinge. The people in Groningen feel despondent, angry, sad and abandoned, by the rest of the country and in particular by us here in The Hague. So at the hands of the Dutch State, thousands of people in Groningen feel unsafe and their homes are unsafe. The people I'm talking to have been beaten so much that they haven't been able to make the rounds around the house again to see what the new damage is. If you consider that the settlement of damages has stopped for almost three-quarters of a year because the government has not speeded up, it is indigestible. Of course, I and others in the Chamber, recently in the budget, have advocated speeding up the damage protocol and reducing extraction. The minister said in the media that he wants to go beyond the coalition agreement. A good thing is the CDA Group, which is also present today in large numbers. And what does that mean, in concrete terms, we ask him. We yearn so intensely for deeds. We're really tired of the fact that there's no damage protocol yet. When is the Minister coming up with the revised damages protocol? And what does the Minister say is still stuck on? Does the Minister also know why the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council left the consultation today? Isn't he just gonna take away their concerns with the new damage protocol and still involve them? Mr. Chairman. We really need to get out of the current impasse. The CDA wants the damage protocol to be agreed by 1 February at the latest. Mining damage must be compensated at all times. To this end, the reverse burden of proof also strengthens the position of our inhabitants. I still hear too much that compensation for damage caused by gas extraction must be removed from the hellish doors. It makes them sick and it brings many, certainly companies I have spoken to, to the financial abyss. Mr. Chairman. Is there a need for an amendment to the Mining Act for the independent committee or the institute that should determine the damage in the future? Can pre-emptive action be taken in accordance with the future law, as is the case with reverse evidence, as requested by the arbitrators? Can the Minister confirm today that the arbitrators will remain? Can all those other people in the Netherlands who are dealing with mining damage also count on a protocol in line with Groningen's damage protocol? Then there is a repeated call for anyone who suffers direct damage from the gas extraction in Groningen, i.e. runners to Drenthe who are there and also people over Langelo, to be included in the damage protocol of Groningen. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the further reduction. The Council of State was already critical and the State surveillance of the Mines is not to be welcomed for the initial actions of the NAM. I quote the SodM: "The NAM gives the impression in its analysis that the measures are only necessary for the safety experience of the inhabitants of Groningen. According to SodM, there are no concrete security risks." How much did the NAM actually propose to go further down in concrete terms, according to the Minister? What will the Minister do with this unclear advice from the NAM? The CDA wants gas extraction to go further down. Mr Jetten and I have also put forward concrete measures for this in the EZK budget, such as hybrid CV systems. Steps by industry must also be speeded up. How's that going? What other possibilities does the Minister see to go back with gas extraction? Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte indicated last Sunday in Buitenhof that the inhabitants of Groningen should be the first to get rid of the gas. The CDA agrees. During the budget debate, we asked for the sustainability exercise to be combined with a reinforcement exercise, starting in Appingedam. Let us prevent these people from leaving their homes several times. The fact that you have to leave your house because of the reinforcements is really very intense. A holiday home may sound fun, but it certainly isn't. So they really didn't ask for this, did they, these people of Groningen? They're just confronted with it. I will continue to emphasise that here. This is done to them by the Dutch government, the NAM, Shell and Exxon. That means that these parties, including us here in the Chamber, will have to show that it affects them and also us what happens to people, and that we will have to deal with it generously. So go behind the damage protocol. At the time of the reinforcement, take care of the sustainability. Because with the €4,000 available at the NCG, we're really not gonna get that done. The CDA wants a concrete proposal from the Minister on how the funds from these EUR 50 million will also be used for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the multiannual programme, which is also on the agenda for this debate. As a CDA, we consider it important that our residents can make their own choice to strengthen their homes. Now I read that if the cost of strengthening exceeds 150% of the economic value, it will almost automatically be demolished. My question is whether, in these cases too, the owner would be able to opt for reinforcement despite the high costs, or whether the financing arrangements would also be made. 'Cause it happens to you and your house. Soon, image-defining buildings will just go away. Whole villages are affected by that. I'm about to say something about Overschild, Mr. Chairman, but I see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	But you still have 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'd wrap it up if I were you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. I am deeply impressed by the inhabitants of the village Overschild. Despite all the misery, they put their backs into it. Half the village will have to be demolished, as it looks now. Is the Minister prepared to see the village of Overschild as a pilot? Is he also going to support the village to get perspective and are we just going to be informed about it every quarter? Because this can and must be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	I would like to congratulate Mrs Mulder on a wonderful speech. It is also entirely in line with the electoral promises made by Mr Buma: we must now finally provide security. But I cannot reconcile this with a coalition agreement in which you do nothing about the level of gas extraction for two years. How is it that you need a heavy quake just to remember that in two years' time we will have to bring down that gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	In recent years, I have also spent a lot of time with your predecessor, and we have always followed the advice of State supervision of the Mines. This time, too, the cabinet was advised by the State surveillance of the Mines. This was their advice. This is how much we could get back. If it is possible to do more, very concretely, I would like to hear it from Mrs Beckerman, but most of the time it is stuck in the opposition with 'it has to go back to 12 billion cubs'. That was once in the first report of State surveillance of the Mines in 2013. That was then taken back by the State surveillance of the Mines. We have to establish this with each other here too. We just want it to be done in a safe way. I'm still in favour of that. If State supervision of the Mines comes with a different advice tomorrow and has to go a different direction, then our group is open to that, as we have done in recent years. We have also tabled motions for resolutions on this. You can always charge us for that. That's what we'll always stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	State surveillance of the mines has declared code red in Groningen. This means that they want to reduce it as quickly as possible. Do you agree with me that within two weeks there must be a plan by this government to go for that reduction and that we cannot wait until March, after we have had that cold winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	What the SodM is saying with code red is incredibly important. But they also say they'll work that out even further in a report. They have two weeks to do so themselves in a good, careful way. I would very much like us to be back here after those two weeks to discuss that report with each other, just like Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	With the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	If that's gonna help, I don't mind. But today, for the first time, we are discussing Groningen with this Minister. This case is extremely important. That is what this Minister has read and worked in as a trade minister. I'd like to hear what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	Still, a very small correction. Mrs Mulder says that the SodM said five years ago: 12 billion is safe and they came back to that later. That is not entirely true, because that is under another condition. At 12 billion, seismicity is almost nil, it was said. Later it said SodM: 24 billion. But that's with an acceptable risk of earthquakes. That was emphasised at some point at a hearing we had in January 2016, I believe, on the earthquake dossier. Then the former director of the SodM explained that again. So there really is a difference. That 12 billion still stands because then the seismicity is virtually nil. That is something other than an "acceptable risk."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	So that was not a question but a kind of explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	Can Mrs. Mulder respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	In 2013 we heard the SodM here in the Lower House at a technical briefing. This was again the case in 2014. That 12 billion has already been released. People can shake no very hard now, but that has been put forward in that technical briefing. And I'm sticking to the advice of the State's surveillance of the mines, because that's our agency looking at the safety of our residents in Groningen. We've always followed them. The Council of State has also always followed the State surveillance of the Mines. That is an important institution for me. I don't have to add any value to that, but I don't have to make it worse than it is. For me, their advice is beyond question. We will follow that, including this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mr. Wassenberg, a brief interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yes, a very short one. Then I'd still like to take a look at the fine print. That really is the difference between 'almost nil' and 'acceptable risk'. That's really the difference. We want 'almost nil'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have a question on the same point. I have asked the SodM at every technical briefing and at every hearing: do you still support that advice in the first instance? They say: yes, but in this case we have also weighed what the security of supply demands. So they didn't just look at security, they also looked at security of supply. That's why they came out higher with opinions on NAM's extraction plans. But their own independent advice, which still applies, is to reduce gas extraction as quickly as possible, as far as is realistic. Does Mrs. Mulder recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	Well, I've been in all those technical briefings, and I know you've asked that question every time. Every time it was said: but with the knowledge of today we look at it differently. That's what I've heard for years state surveillance of the mines say. Look, I don't think GroenLinks wants to hear numbers today either, because that's not the point at all. We want security for the Groningers. At the moment when the State surveillance of the mines, which has given code red at the moment, is going to say: in two weeks' time we will go further down, nobody will say: well, should we not do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	No, of course not. But Mrs Mulder, like her colleague, has agreed to the coalition agreement, which is above 20 billion cubic metres. So it took a heavy earthquake to get it in the direction of the SodM's advice. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u97	No, because the SodM has advised to bring back as much as realistic as possible. So that is, among other things, the 3 billion cube in the companies that use a lot of energy. Well, I tabled a motion on that two years ago proposing to reduce it further. Unfortunately, nothing was done with that at the time. I should like to add, Mrs Van Tongeren, that your party was also involved. Maybe not so much fun to hear here tonight, but you didn't think it was green enough at the time. I'd like to get the place further down for safety. Yeah, well, I guess we'll just have to make sure it happens now. Then the SodM also said to us: if you go down that 3 billion cub, you should actually win flat. Then you end up at the 1.5 billion, which is in the coalition agreement. Yeah, you can shake your head, but that's what we've been told by state surveillance of the mines. I think that's an important institution I'm listening to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u98	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u99	Finally. The SodM has said that the risk is almost nil at 12 billion cube. Well, now we're on the same page. We have to look to the future, we can't go down at once from where we are now. I am very pleased that Mrs Mulder also says: I did agree to the coalition agreement, but it really needs to go as far down as possible, especially now that we have such a heavy quake. So I also hope that Mrs Mulder will support proposals that go in that direction and that Mrs Mulder will also support GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u101	... for any questions about the export. It can't be that in the Netherlands the extraction of gas will go down...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u102	You also have a second term, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u103	... but exports in 2018...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mrs. Van Tongeren!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u105	... isn't significantly lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u106	I'm going to see Mr. Nijboer. Mrs. Mulder may respond for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yeah, I think this is just a speech on the interrupting microphone. So yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u108	I have another point. The Commissioner for the King in Groningen, Mr Paas, pointed out the link between the investment fund, which is actually far too small, and what do you buy for 50 million a year? So if less gas is won, Groningen gets less money. That's gotta be off the table. I think that's perverse. You shouldn't do that to the Groningen people. I am curious to see how Mrs Mulder of the CDA agrees with those remarks made by the King's Commissioner, who very much shares the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u109	Well, we talked about that yesterday in a radio broadcast...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u110	That's why I'm asking!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u111	Well, if I say it on the radio, of course I can say it here. What matters to me is that this EUR 50 million is an amount that we, as part of this cabinet, have wanted to say is finally going towards Groningen. That's just what I'm saying here. That amount can be used for sustainability, for which I have made a plea today. It can't be that 50 million is going down in one go. That does not exist in my opinion, which I also said on the radio yesterday. So I'd like to hear from this minister if he shares that with the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u112	It was a very constructive question, you know. It was said on the radio and it was not introduced into the debate. But I hear Mrs Mulder right: that clutch has to be removed, because even the VVD I have just heard offers room for gas extraction down, 12 billion, which we have not yet come to. I'm afraid that's gonna take a few more debates. But when it goes down, that money stays on and maybe, if it has to be more than that, and it has to be more, if you want to be more sustainable, if you want to be zero on the meter and if you want to be serious about taking initiatives in the region, you can talk to the CDA about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u113	In recent years, I have always looked at what concrete measures you can take to further reduce extraction. One of them was that nitrogen factory. I remember a few years ago when I tabled a motion on this because I thought: then you can act on time. As the years pass, you will see another coincidence, of further reductions abroad, in Germany, France and Belgium, and with us. By the time that factory was finished, you wouldn't be needing it anymore. If you're going to invest 500 million euros in that, you can take a good look at that. It's still an option for me. If the Minister is going to show in his scenarios that that's the most important thing we need to do now, then surely you don't believe that the CDA is going to go against that? Then we're also concerned about the safety of the Groningen people, aren't we? Only I'm not convinced of that right now. I would very much like the industry to be switched as soon as possible, that we get hybrid central heating boilers, that we take people in Groningen further away from the gas and that there is a sustainability impact there, so that there is finally a perspective at that point and your home might be worth a little more than a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u114	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u115	I didn't ask a question about a nitrogen factory. I asked a question about the investment fund to ensure sustainability in Groningen. You yourself cited the initiatives in Overschild. They cost money. The government's gonna need money on that. If every village does that, 50 million isn't enough. If you're gonna slow down with the gas and you've made that clutch, that's not gonna happen. The simple question I am asking is: if the initiatives in Loppersum and in various other municipalities, including the initiatives you mentioned yourself, are really taken seriously, can the CDA talk about extending the money and releasing the link with gas extraction? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u116	All serious initiatives can be discussed with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I now turn to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, this Chamber was on a working visit in Groningen. One of the victims told me: if there is a disaster somewhere in the world, the Netherlands always stands in front of the queue to help and send money. Groningen is also a disaster area, even within our own borders, but aid is not available. And that's the way it is. Billions are being sent to Africa with utmost ease, but our own people, our own Groningen, are being left to their own devices. That's outrageous. That's not how you deal with your own people. Damage control's completely shut down. At first, Prime Minister Rutte said this was because of the Groningers themselves. Shameless. Then he corrected himself because this didn't really fall into good shape in Groningen and said that it was the long cabinet formation. But now CDA and D66 deny it. It's not the long cabinet formation at all. What a gloomy thing this is! How about now? That's what I'm asking the Minister. The fact remains that let us not forget that there is a need for an earthquake, not least the heaviest one in five years' time, as a reason to debate here in an attempt to finally get the Minister moving. Last week, the Minister visited Zeerijp. What a mockery that was! Contact with residents he frightenedly got out of the way, he didn't come up with the beginning of a solution and then kicked in all possible open doors by saying himself also very despondent and frustrated. Is that the strength of this minister or, rather, the lack of it? What a weak bite! Damage control's completely shut down. Anyone responsible, the Prime Minister, the Minister, the NAM and the National Coordinator, is hiding behind the lack of a damages protocol. But what do you mean "damage protocol"? And how can damage not be dealt with? The Ombudsman already referred to it as "legal pranks'. Because protocol or not, the fact is and remains that the NAM is legally liable for the damages caused. Then it is not possible for the NAM, because of the lack of a protocol, to withdraw from that liability and therefore to stop the damage? Why is there only training and frustrating? Mr. Chairman. I think we're all over it: it's outrageous how the Groningen people are being treated, especially when you realize how much money the Groningen gas has made. The natural gas revenues for the government now amount to hundreds of billions. The NAM also raised tens of billions. The help, the financial assistance that the Groningen people need now, is completely indistinguishable from how much money has been made from the Groningen people, and it does not fall in the way of all the suffering and sorrow that has been done to them over the past few years. This has been done to them by the failing government, the failing Rutte government, which has abandoned citizens. It has been done to them by the failing NAM, who has now suddenly proposed out of nowhere to reduce gas extraction. What an open door! Of course that must be done, but think carefully: why does the NAM come forward with this proposal? Why now, of all people? 'Cause the place is getting crazy. That's why we're here tonight. The NAM therefore tries to show us: "Look at us and think about a solution." I'd say don't fall for it. What a brutality! If the NAM wants a solution, a real solution, then she's going to pay and nothing but that. Minister, please take care of it! Mr. Chairman. The highest priority must therefore be to deal with damage properly, but please do so without any ulterior motive. Sad, therefore, it is deeply sad that left-wing parties and other left-wing clubs are taking advantage of the Groningen disaster for announcing their own agenda, the sustainability agenda. In this debate, the previous speakers have been talking almost exclusively about sustainability. Nothing about damage that needs to be repaired, just about climate neutrality and what's more. We clap all over Groningen full of windmills, make the homes climate neutral and then the earthquakes stop by themselves. That is nonsense, folklore, I say. Groningers who are now saddled with an unsellable house that is on the brink of collapse shouldn't be saddled with a windmill in their backyard, which makes their home even less valuable. That's why I say watch out! Parties who are in favour of this, who want to do so, say that for ideological reasons, not out of compassion with the Groningen people, but over the back of the Groningen people. They didn't deserve that. What the Groningers do deserve is for the misery to be solved. It's not called sustainability. That word has often fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer. He speaks for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had to think about my nephew Max in the PVV contribution. He comes to me every now and then and when he really doesn't want to hear something or want to hear it wrong, he says, "Uncle Henk, I have a banana in my ear," and then he says something that doesn't make any sense. That is what Mr Kops has just done by saying 'what a huge left-wing political agenda is being spread here about Groningen; it is only about sustainability', while I have heard a very serious input from every party, including the coalition parties, whether you agree with it or not. Mr. Chairman. An earthquake of 3.4 on the Richter scale in Zeerijp last Monday caused a lot of unrest in Groningen. But every day, every week, every month all these smaller earthquakes, which are not so big in the national media and which we are not debating today, on the first Chamber day of the new year, give cause for concern. That's little misery, smaller cracks that get bigger, and bigger misery, it can't live in the house where you were born and raised. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address three main points. One. The level of gas extraction. Two. The handling of damage, or rather not the handling of damage. Three. The investment programme, the delta programme needed for the province of Groningen. First of all, the extraction of gas. In the coalition agreement, it has really been agreed that it should remain at least 20 billion cubs and that other budget items should be cut if we want to reduce that number of cubs. I am very pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy said right after he took office: we want to go further down. The question is what then is being cut back. Or is the agreement that other posts, such as health care, education and police, really need to be cut out of the coalition agreement? I tabled a motion with GroenLinks to the General Financial Reviews. It was then pushed aside by Minister Hoekstra. But that agreement must be withdrawn, because the PvdA Group is in favour of reducing, but not cutting. The second question is where the phasing-out path is going. Is it going to 12 billion cuub at the end of the cabinet period........................................................................................................................................................... Or is that gonna take way too long? How is that achieved? Is the Minister prepared to reduce export contracts? He has already said something about this in the Economic Affairs budget. Is that nitrogen plant being built now, too? Is there also further preservation in the Netherlands, so less gas needs to be used? How is the Minister going to realize that? Mr. Chairman. I'm here to deal with damage. In the Netherlands it's just that if five years after the big earthquake in Huizinge you had damage for the past eight, nine months, you can report it somewhere, but then nothing happens to it. That's the Netherlands in 2018. It can't go on like this. Everyone in this room thinks so, too. The Minister also says "no" outside the microphone, and I agree with him. The question then is how the cabinet solves this. On that point, Mr Rutte, our Prime Minister, is making a bit of a mess. He says it'll be settled in two weeks. But today, the organisations are stepping out of the consultation. Mr Rutte says it is up to the formation, Mr Buma of the CDA says that the formation has nothing to do with it. Mr Rutte still blames the region and passes; he will come back to that. In this way, we do not quickly arrive at a proper settlement of damage. The PvdA's question to the cabinet is: what is it really about? Is it the formation? Or is it a matter of substantive dispute, disputes between Shell, Exxon, NAM, who may not want to pay so much in the end, who want to draw outline lines and say: "We do want to put it generously on paper, but we do not want to carry it out in practice. In the end, people have to go through procedures to get what they want."? What exactly is it about? Where's the stinger? Is that justified, because last week the Prime Minister said he expected all these angels to be removed in two weeks? I agree with the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council that they do not just give in to this because of the speed and because of 'we only have one protocol', because that is really not wise. People earn after waiting so long just that their damage is properly compensated. That must be really leading. The State has to take care of that. The NAM, Shell and Exxon should not be able to influence this. How does the Minister view this? Mr President, the third point. A massive reinforcement operation is being proposed, but it's really going to be huge neighborhoods. It's almost every house in Loppersum and Ten Boer. The question is whether that operation is necessary to that extent if you really bring down the gas extraction, because that operation has a huge impact on villages. But even if you did that operation to a lesser extent, it would require a delta program. I'm thinking Appingedam. We've been there as a commission. Well, everyone was taken. That doesn't look like shit. It's also been shut down. They're gonna pick it up later. In Ten Post, there is a lot of fuss about it, and rightly so. It can't be. It's got to be a little thoughtful. So you have to look where the school and childcare are in the future. It's gotta be better. It also costs more than the extra 50 million. Finally, Mr President. A Christmas party came up with a Christmas tree: we're going to occupy our old farm. I've been there, too. I know him well, too. The Koster family lived there first. It's in Fraamklap-Middelstum. Today we received answers to questions from GroenLinks, the SP and the PvdA. It has been said: we keep that farm. That's good. But I think that action should be a symbol of the value and importance of all cultural historical buildings in Groningen. In determining which building may remain, not financial motives should be guiding, but the soul of those buildings and their importance for the future of Groningen. Because if you're going to make the value of all those buildings, farms and old homes, those things that really determine the core of Groningen and the landscape, and why it's so beautiful to live there, just financially and economically, then there's nothing left of our province. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Last week there was an earthquake at Zeerijp, the largest in five years. The blow was big. Code red now applies in Groningen. The concerns of the people in Groningen are very real. It's about their safety. And in the meantime, a lot of people are all murmuring. The cynicism is great. There are even people who don't file a claim for damages because it doesn't make sense, and don't even go round the house again to inspect the damage. Mrs Mulder has just mentioned this in the debate. Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union, security is number one. The Netherlands owes a debt of honor to the Groningers. Then excuses are only worth something if there are concrete deeds attached to them. I hope that the reduction in gas production and the handling of damage will be at the top of this minister's stack. Only by deeds can people's trust be regained. Mr. Chairman. The Minister wants to reduce gas extraction as much as possible. "Whatever we can come up with, we need to get gas extraction down." Those are the Minister's words. The NAM also controls a substantial reduction in gas production and closure of production clusters. That is at last a very different sound from last summer's NAM, when it appealed against the State's last 10% reduction in the extraction ceiling. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union urges the minister and the NAM to rush. We should not only do what is necessary, but do everything possible, the sooner the better. When does the Minister expect to be able to report more about reducing production? After all, he had to start working on the November Council of State ruling. And can the Minister confirm that closing specific clusters does not lead to the relocation of problems to other parts of Groningen or elsewhere in the country? Previously, the extraction at Loppersum of the Council of State had to be stopped. Yet a watchflame was held. In 2016 another 1 billion cuub was won from these clusters, and in 2017 also 0.8 billion cuub. Can the Minister explain why the watch flame was still relatively large in 2017? The NAM now advocates the closure of four production clusters. Does this mean that the watch flame can be extinguished? Mr. Chairman. The demand for Groningen gas can be greatly reduced if the industry's largest consumers rely on energy savings, hybrid systems, high-caloric gas or electrification. The coalition agreement also includes agreements on this subject. The Christian Union asks the Minister to engage actively in talks with these large industrial consumers. What agreements will the Minister make, and in what time will we be clear about this? There is still much to gain from the transition in the heat supply for homes. In newly built houses, the connection obligation for gas expires. The Christian Union asks the Minister what possibilities he sees, also in the light of the climate and energy agreement, to accelerate the transition, especially in existing housing. Mr. Chairman. There is also a need for urgency in the handling of damages. The government agreement is clear on the distance of the NAM, the public compensation fund, and a compensation protocol aligned with the region. The Christian Union prefers this part of the coalition agreement to be implemented today rather than tomorrow. The Minister expressed the hope of reaching a damages protocol within a few weeks. Does this mean this month? As far as the Christian Union is concerned. In the meantime, the number of reports of damage after the earthquake in Zeerijp has already risen to almost 3,000. There were thousands of files waiting. The Christian Union asks the Minister to ensure that reports of damage with the new damage protocol do not sink into a bureaucratic swamp again. One of the people in the public gallery I have just spoken to said: the chaos seems to be getting worse. That's not supposed to happen, is it? We also believe that the use of contours is not sustainable. Mining damage is damage that needs to be compensated. Is that how the Minister sees it? Mr. Chairman. If we agree here that the burden of proof has been reversed, how can I hear from people today that they have to prove every time that it has been the NAM? I'd like a response from the Minister. Today it became clear that the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council are stepping out of the consultation on the damage protocol. It is essential that they are supported by society. Why did they leave and what is the Minister going to do to get these parties back to the table? The reinforcement notice must go hand in hand with the sustainability of the homes. The Christian Union finds it impossible for houses to be dealt with and reconnected to the gas. Let Groningen become a frontrunner in the energy transition. The Minister has seen the problems. How is he going to handle this, and is he going to use the 50 million available? Recently, a characteristic farmhouse in Middelstum that was previously bought by the NAM to be demolished was cracked. Now it turns out that the property can be preserved, but there are more properties that have been bought up and threatened to get under the demolition hammer. The Christian Union wants not to look narrowly at the economic value of the buildings, but also at the monumental value, characteristic value and identity of Groningen. What about the progress of the Heritage Window and the Heritage Advisory Team, as included in the Government Agreement? And what does the Minister think of the criticism of the Groninger Monument Association Owners about the poor handling of cultural heritage in restoration and strengthening? How does he intend to prevent monuments from being demolished? We need to respond to this today. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Groningen earthquakes have an incredible impact on the people in Groningen, especially on the children, as a report by the Kinderombudsman showed. The government agreement states that more attention will be paid to spiritual assistance. Money has also been made available for this. Is the Minister going to make sure that this money and therefore the concern are already available this year? Because after last week's blow, the urgency to get to work is bigger than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. I'm actually standing here with shame. I have only been a Member of Parliament since March, but I wonder how this could have happened. I hear a number of people here saying that we shouldn't put anyone in the cold, but we have left the Groningers in the cold for years. I would therefore like to endorse the words of the Ombudsman, Mr Reinier van Zutphen, who says that it is all due to legal gibberish. He also says that the government itself and actively must now repair the damage caused by the gas earthquakes in Groningen. 50PLUS totally agrees with that. You, you need to take control now. You need to take control and cut the buttons. We really get the impression that Minister Wiebes really wants to, because he has visited Groningen a number of times since his arrival and he calls the course of events concerning the gas extraction and compensation of the Groningen in recent years 'a Dutch government failure of non-Dutch proportions'. He has also promised to make clear before 1 April how far he is going to reduce production further. He is talking about'maximum restrictions', perhaps even further than is stated in the coalition agreement. The NAM also calls for the closure of six production sites, because the risk is too high. The inkling definitely goes on for a long time, even if we stop the gas completely tomorrow. So we really need to speed that up. The Minister also states that we must get rid of the gas. That's what we think. That is why I tabled a motion in April. That motion has been widely adopted here in the Chamber, with 145 votes, and calls for a phasing-out plan for gas extraction. My question to the Minister is how far he is now with the phasing-out plan and the drafting of that motion. When can we expect the plan and are you also willing to discuss with the foreign customers, i.e. Germany, Belgium and France, that we may not be able to meet our delivery obligation until 2030? But don't forget that these countries have long been engaged in the transformation, with the transition to non-fossil energy. So maybe they can reach much earlier with less gas. First of all, however, we need to ensure that the damage protocol is implemented as quickly as possible, which the Groningers have been waiting for for so long, a protocol without contour lines, a protocol in which the burden of proof is reversed, so that the benefit of the doubt is due to the victims. It's really crying to heaven and to be ashamed of you, I've just told you that these people have been on a leash for so long. In Buitenhof, the Prime Minister said that the damages protocol will be in place within a few weeks. That would therefore be before 31 January. But is this date hard to make now that the Groninger Gasberaad and the Groninger Soil Movement have stepped out of the consultation? In October, the Groningen region laid down a compensation protocol which was satisfactory in Groningen. My question to the Minister is: why did you take out the counter-expertise in the new damages protocol? Why do you do that? That is one of the reasons why these two parties left the consultation. Especially in the light of the experience so far and the many lawsuits that the NAM has spent in this whole process, legal cases against the Groningen people have been dealt with, I think that such a counter-expertise is of great importance to the Groningen people. Finally. How do you plan to regain the confidence of the Groningen people? And do you agree with me that it is a very serious moral obligation not to leave the Groningen in uncertainty for another day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you. I call Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Groningen was once again alarmed by a major earthquake last week. First of all, I would like to express my support and wish all affected residents, who have suffered yet another setback by this blow. Last Friday, I was in Groningen myself. I was a guest there with three families at home, in three totally different situations: one family in a heavily damaged house, one family in a temporary suitcase and one family in an already fortified house. All three families faced some kind of burden: the uncertainty in which they had to live for years in an unsafe area, the burden of difficult damage settlement and uncertainty about strengthening their own home or neighbourhood. Despite these concerns and that stress, I had frank conversations with them and showed these Groninger's resilience. I have an awful lot of respect for that. But through these discussions last Friday and the previous visits we made as a committee for economic affairs in Groningen, I feel the duty to fight here, in the Chamber, for a better approach that does justice to the suffering of Groningen. Mr. Chairman. After last week's blow, we have to conclude that if we really have the safety of Groningen at one, two and three, the gas extraction must be further reduced. For D66, the advice of State supervision has always been decisive. State surveillance has now said it's code red for Groningen. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he points that code red. How quickly is the Minister prepared to reduce gas extraction to ensure the safety of Groningen? Mr. Chairman. We want to reduce gas extraction to the maximum in the longer term, further than we have agreed to so far. Above all, we must also ensure that the demand for Groningen gas decreases rapidly. This can be done with fewer exports, but this can also be done by reducing the consumption of Gronings gas in our own country. It has already been said this evening: less gas in industry is being accelerated by the industry. There are seven industrial consumers who together consume 2 billion m of gas. What possibilities does the Minister see for settling this within a few years with large industrial consumers? Is he prepared to provide financial support to industry in order to make that change within a few years? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the gas consumption of our homes also needs to be reduced quickly. D66 wants to ban gas connections in new buildings, but also speed up the roll-out of heat grids in large cities, because these heat grids allow us to use less gas on a large scale in residential areas. In the roll-out of heat grids, we are still running at high costs. I would like to hear if the Minister is prepared to pursue the transition and acceleration of the roll-out of heat grids with temporary financial support, so that large-scale projects already on the shelf are now really starting to emerge. I agree with Mrs Mulder's call for the energy transition in Groningen to begin. Fortified homes in Groningen are currently being delivered with a gas connection. If the residents ask if they can please have a house without gas, then they have to pay more extra. That's the world upside down. The homes in Groningen that we are dealing with now must also be dealt with right away. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to ensure that as soon as we resume the reinforcement operation in full speed, the homes in Groningen are the example of how we are doing that energy transition in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the damage settlement and the reinforcement operation itself. The damage protocol should be adopted as soon as possible with the widest possible support. The recording and handling of damages should also be started immediately. The handling must be generous. D66 wants residents no longer to have to switch with the NAM for the damage settlement. It's possible to do so with a public fund for damages. That is what we agreed with each other in the coalition agreement. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he can establish that damage protocol within two weeks. What is the content of the discussion with the region? If that damages protocol is soon to be established, is it immediately with a new compensation fund under public control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u127	I have a simple question. I read in the news today: "CDA and D66: formation didn't stop dealing with gas damage." I don't understand it so well anymore. Friday we had Rutte, who said: it is partly the region. On Sunday we had Rutte, who said: it's the formation. Now D66, which is part of the same cabinet, says: no, it was not the formation. I don't get it anymore. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u128	Whether it was the formation or not, it's a shame that the resolution of the damage has stopped for so long. We all let that happen here. We can do you-bake all night on exactly who it was, but the core is to make sure that the damage protocol is there within two weeks and that the damage withdrawals and damage handling are immediately restarted. That's what the Groningers are waiting for. If the formation could have been quicker, we would all have been happy, not just on this file. Perhaps I can anticipate the question which is likely to follow, namely the extraction which is contained in the coalition agreement. We have constantly asked in the formation how low gas extraction should be to ensure safety for the Groningen. The comments in the article referred to by Mrs Beckerman are partly about this. The answer at the formation table was always: the level that is now in the coalition agreement. I am very sorry that this is coming after last week's blow, but if the SodM says it should be lower, then I hate that we didn't already know it at the formation table. But then I also say that the new advice of the SodM must be followed. If gas extraction has to go further down in the coming period, then we are going to do so as far as D66 is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u129	That is a very nice commitment, but the advice of the SodM was already there. In 2012, they gave all the advice to go back to 12 billion if you want seismicity to be nil. If you really want people to dare put their kid to bed safely at night, you have to go back to 12 billion. That advice was already there. You made promises about that in election time. Then it is very sad that we are getting a government agreement in which gas extraction remains the same for two years. But I wasn't gonna ask you that at all. I still wanted to know who's right now. Do you agree with Rutte or do you agree with Pechtold? What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u130	Again, as far as I'm concerned, that just doesn't matter. The point is that we establish that damage protocol, start the damage settlement immediately and lower the gas extraction to a level that is safe for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u131	Very briefly, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u132	But I don't get it. People have been waiting since March 31st. There are thousands of cases already and you say it doesn't matter. It's not a crazy question I'm asking, is it? How did Groningers have to wait so long? Thousands of people live on hold and you say it doesn't matter. I don't understand. We as the House of Representatives are the controlling power, and that is why we want to know how this can happen. Is Rutte right or is your leader right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u133	I'm not going to defend Mr. Rutte's statements in the last few days. I didn't think they were so handy either, and I didn't think they were doing justice to the situation the Groningen people are in. Mr. Chairman. I had just said that the damage protocol should be there as soon as possible and preferably with an independent fund. It is also important that any damage is assessed individually and that any damage caused by extraction from the Groningen field is treated equally. This means: with a reverse burden of proof, without red tape for residents and without distinction between inner and outer areas with contour maps. Can the Minister confirm that no distinction will be made between the various damages? Last week and also on the previous visit to Groningen, I heard that the confidence of many Groningers in the Centre for Safe Living has fallen considerably. The CVW plays an important role in the recording and handling of the damages. Many Groningers do not see the CVW as independent, because this center works on behalf of the NAM. D66 therefore wants the CVW under public control. That could be the CVW, but that could also be the independent committee the National Coordinator mentioned earlier. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the claims are made independently and under public control as soon as possible? In the coalition agreement, it was also agreed that the National Coordinator would develop a buy-back scheme along the lines of the Koopinstrument pilot, so that Groningers who are in an uncertain situation know that they will be helped out of the fire if that is really necessary. In the First Chamber, a D66 motion has been passed on this issue. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the further development of this buy-back scheme? When can Groningen look forward to this buy-back arrangement? Finally, I agree with what Mrs Dik-Faber has just said. In addition to the technical operation and the technical discussions on the level of gas extraction and its effects, Groningen faces an enormous social and spiritual challenge. People are in long-term uncertainty and insecurity. They have stress and health problems. We in the Chamber must have a maximum eye for that. In order to help individual families through this period of insecurity, damage and reinforcement, and to ensure that social cohesion in neighbourhoods and villages is not put to the maximum test, we need to support individual people and neighbourhoods in the future. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that additional money would be made available for this purpose. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it will be available already this year, so that municipalities can start directly with this individual guidance and the strengthening of social cohesion in neighbourhoods and villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u134	I have a question for Mr Jetten of D66. How does he look at image-defining buildings in the province that really reflect the identity of the province? It is now a bit of a financial consideration: 100% rebuilding value, 150% new construction value. Then it's actually broken down if it's possible. If you do that on a large scale, it's really undesirable. Does D66 agree with the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yes, I didn't say anything about that now, because I agree with your input and Mrs Dik-Faber's. My predecessor Van Veldhoven has often talked about this. We have, I think, seen a number of examples of villages where really picturesque buildings are in danger of disappearing. It actually knocks the soul out of such a village. So we really need to ensure that the image-defining buildings and the cultural heritage of Groningen stand by that reinforcement. I'm assuming the Minister's gonna promise this, too. Otherwise, I understand you have a motion to bring this to the attention of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u136	I welcome the support for this, because it is now really set to numbers. It is not just that something is broken down if it does not have that value, but that is the starting point. I think that's a really bad starting point. I'm glad D66 supports that. In this way we can also get a majority of the Chamber to make the action that took place at Middelstum at Christmas be of value to the whole province.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u137	I thought it was a nice and clear statement by Mr Jetten. It was also very good that Mr Jetten distanced himself from some of the statements made by our Prime Minister. My question is actually about gas exports. Does Mr Jetten share with GroenLinks that, in order to carry out her controlling task properly, the Chamber should have an insight into what we are seeing about the export of Groningen gas abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u138	I believe that we in the Chamber have a technical briefing tomorrow at lunchtime, including on this point. I hope we can get more insight there. The most important appeal I am sending to the Minister is: make sure that exports go down as quickly as possible, so that we have less Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u139	I'm really glad to hear that. Does the same apply to the original contract between the State and Shell and Exxon, 1963? It also lays down the breakdown of the amounts of damage. Should that be for the taxpayer or for the company? Would Mr Jetten, like GroenLinks, like to get an insight into this contract, if necessary confidentially?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u140	At the moment, it does not add much to me, because I want the Minister to put his time and energy into completing the damage protocol and starting that damage settlement. Let's see at a later point if we need to go back in time to do some truth finding at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u141	I am also pleased that Mr Jetten says that important, picturesque and old buildings in Groningen deserve protection. Does that also mean that D66 thinks that an acceptable seismicity is insufficient, because that kind of old buildings can really suffer, and that we should go to as little seismicity as possible, or nil, and so to 12 billion cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mr Wassenberg referred indirectly to the opinion of the SodM. I also have a report from the SodM from 2016. In it it itself writes that it has ever come to the cautious conclusion that 12 billion cube could lead to a certain safe situation. In my opinion, as a Chamber, we should get rid of the 12 billion, because that also leads to a lot of confusion. The most important thing for D66 is that we move to a safe situation as soon as possible and eventually reduce that gas extraction to zero. Mr Wassenberg also knows that if we reduce it to 15 or 12 billion, this subsurface will remain unstable in the years to come. That leads to earthquakes for years to come. Let us not create some sort of false security here by yelling that with 12 billion all the problems have been solved. Eventually, the problems won't be solved until we're at zero with that gas extraction. That is why I have also made a number of proposals to reduce gas demand as quickly as possible. In the coming weeks, as a D66 group, we will look at the advice of State surveillance on what will lead to the safest situation in Groningen. As far as we are concerned, that is the line to which the Minister must also go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u143	That's right. The gas that is being extracted today can still have effect in months. If you stop winning gas tomorrow, you can still expect seismicity in the next few months, but if you want to bring this back structurally over the next few months or years, you'll still have to go to much lower levels. Indeed, the SodM later commented on the 12 billion. At the 12 billion it is nil and at that higher figure it is acceptable, but that is true of fortified buildings. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that these old churches and old farms have not been strengthened and that they should also be protected? We can't build every building.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u144	Once again, the D66 Group will look at the advice we receive from State surveillance within two weeks. This determines for us to what extent gas extraction will have to go down in the near future. I would like to fight with Mr Wassenberg for us to get to that number 0 as quickly as possible, but that requires intervention in industry and in our homes. That is a huge task for which this minister stands. Mr President, in conclusion, if I may. As far as I am concerned, this evening is an evening in which we urge the Minister to make a decision in the coming weeks, so that we can really achieve results in this cabinet period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u146	You will also receive applause from your group. That's okay, too. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. I don't think I'm getting any applause from my group tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u148	Well, look, in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you very much. I knew the collegiality was great, but time goes on, I see. Mr. Chairman. Code red indicates the scale of the crisis that has arisen in Groningen. I believe that the greatest crisis at the moment is the breach of confidence; that countless inhabitants, certainly affected, have lost their confidence in their government. Funest for regaining that confidence in Groningen is saying that damage handling will proceed quickly and efficiently and will take place more generously, while in practice it is still not noticed at the moment. Mr Dijkgraaf, whom I am allowed to replace on this dossier for the time being because of circumstances, was in this area last summer. There hasn't been any damage protocol since then for six months. Everything was still; except for the gas extraction. That hasn't changed since then. That can't be true, can it? That is why I ask the Minister: how can he guarantee that there will be a final protocol within a few weeks? And apart from that, why couldn't simple damage cases be immediately arrested without necessarily depending on that protocol? Then there's another point. There will be a compensation fund to ensure that damage recovery can be financed more quickly and appropriately, especially in complex cases. The NAM is responsible for a substantial part, but it is a huge task for individual residents to sue against the NAM. The region wants the State to guarantee the process risks. That seems to us to be a sensible proposal as a group. Does the Minister agree? The reinforcement operation also has a huge impact. There is not only a financial impact: it takes 350 million for 2,500 houses and thus a multiple for all houses and buildings in the area. But there is certainly also an impact on people: they often feel attacked and not taken seriously. I understood that at the pilot in Loppersum only two of the 43 residents were positive. How is the Minister going to ensure that residents do not become the child of the account? Is the NAM going to get out of here, too? Then the messages of some of the victims. I quote one e-mail, which I recently received: "I also think it is important that you know that there is simply blackmail. People say they have damage and this is sometimes partly granted. One must then sign that they agree that the rest is not a quake damage, in order to receive the amount granted." My question to the Minister is: do you recognize this sound? To make it even more complex: sometimes, as a result of a new quake, damage to a property has been repaired before. The new claim is then rejected, because the owner has already been compensated for a damage. Does the Minister recognize this signal? Madam President. The recent earthquake underlines that safety in Groningen is still at stake. The ground acceleration would be even higher than with the heavy earthquake in 2012. If you take all the tremors, 2017 counted the largest number of tremors since the start of the gas extraction. Not for nothing should state surveillance draw the red card, despite the reduced gas production. At the same time, and that has been a bit of a craftsmanship, I notice that the number of heavier tremors seems to have decreased somewhat in recent years. That could be a hopeful sign, but I would like to hear the Minister's explanation on this point: what does this say about the development of earthquake risks? The SGP calls for further reductions in gas extraction. The Minister wants to map out all conceivable possibilities to reduce demand for Groningen gas. We'd like to see that. It's not supposed to be a push-over. I understand that security of supply and foreign contracts are important, but I fear that this dossier will not be resolved without pain. The safety of Groningen must be paramount. It has already been appointed by colleagues: if gas extraction has stopped or is reduced to acceptable proportions, then the afterquakes are likely to last for a long time. What guarantee do those affected by this guarantee have, then, that the damage will also be compensated? This can last for years to come. Finally, Mr President. In his New Year's speech, the director of the NAM said he'd put his money on natural gas for the time being. A quote: "We also want the energy supply to be reliable. We don't want blackouts." That should also apply to Groningen. There one deserves a reliable living environment, reliable damage handling and a reliable government. In fact, my key question to all the questions I have raised is: what steps is the Minister going to take to restore that confidence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u151	I would like to thank all the Groningen people who have come here and who have taken the trouble to be here today. The way in which we are dealing with compensation for the victims of the earthquake in Groningen is symptomatic of how problems are not solved in this country, how we are moving on in consultation circuits without clear decisions and how we do not see any decisiveness in the Rutte government. FvD wants a fundamental change in the outdated way of politics in this country, and thus a fundamental change in the way this problem is addressed. To solve this problem, we have to start from the beginning. In 1959 the Groningen natural gas field was discovered. Minister De Pous of the CDA set up a construction in which the NAM, a collaboration of 50% Shell and 50% ExxonMobil, together with the Dutch State, was to exploit the Groningen gas field. The NAM and the State formed the so-called Groningen Maatschap in the ratio 60% NAM and 40% State. So there was a majority for the companies. On 30 May 1963, by Royal Decree, the natural gas and oil concession Groningen was granted to the NAM. That's the document I have here. It is based on a covenant concluded a few months before, an agreement of cooperation between the NAM and the State. This agreement of cooperation is what really matters when dealing with the damage to the victims of Groningen. Such agreements shall determine who shall compensate the victims of the damage to the victims of Groningen and to what extent. And just this document has been state secret for 55 years. What is in the agreement on the distribution of liability between Shell, ExxonMobil and the State? Why has this agreement been classified for 55 years? What does it say that the Dutch and Groningers should not know? This is without doubt one of the most important contracts the Dutch State has concluded in the last century. We're talking about hundreds of billions of euros. The Netherlands and Groningen have the right to know what it says. What the hell is in a 55-year-old contract that we still can't know in 2018? Why has VVD Minister Kamp structuralally refused WOB requests for the publication of this agreement for cooperation? Does it not seem that once again there is a deep conflict of interest between the established political parties and companies such as Shell and ExxonMobil? Is it not true that Mark Rutte's VVD recently gave an unsolicited gift of EUR 1.4 billion to multinationals by abolishing the dividend tax? Isn't it true that Minister of Finance Hoekstra was working for Shell? Where is the loyalty of these ministers and this cabinet? With the Dutch population or with the multinationals? In the second term, we will table a motion calling on Minister Wiebes to make this secret agreement of cooperation, including all annexes and amendments, available to the Chamber without delay since 1963. This secret agreement was reported to have been amended twice, in 1975 and 1983. Now is the time to re-adjust this agreement with the NAM, after we have of course been able to look at it, so that the NAM is obliged to quickly and correctly compensate for the damage in Groningen and to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u152	I do not recall that Mr Baudet was at the meeting this afternoon, but this request for the contract to be put on the table is exactly what I did in that arrangement of work. And then the President, as she always does, said that she would pass the request on to the government. So I welcome this support of the GroenLinks proposal by Forum for Democracy. I do hope that this minister will reveal that contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u153	I would like to thank Mrs Van Tongeren for this support. We would also like Minister Wiebes to mention a specific date on which all the damage found was credited to the Groningen bank accounts. Rutte daily pours out the happy message about us that everything is going so great in the Netherlands, that it is so cool, that we can be so optimistic. Mark Rutte, don't leave it with your usual empty promises now, but put your faith in the word. Forum for Democracy calls on the Chamber to put Minister Wiebes in an ultimatum. If Wiebes does not solve this problem before 1 July of this year and the damage has been credited to the Groningen bank accounts, Wiebes has to wiggle. If the NAM does not quickly go along with finding a solution and paying for this damage, then we will do so with the concession, namely, as I am doing here now, these cracks in half! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I actually want to take a short break of ten to fifteen minutes. I shall suspend the sitting until 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u155	We will continue the debate on gas extraction in Groningen. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr. Chairman. The gallery is still empty, but I would like to welcome the Groningers who are here. I'll be back with you next week. In reply to Mrs Beckerman's suggestion, I say: yes, it is true, I am not the Prime Minister, I do not want to become a Prime Minister, but I am responsible for this dossier. I am happy to answer the questions and I trust that the questions put by Members here are actually the questions of the people in the gallery. I'd like to do this for the chairman. I have to say a few introductory things in advance. Then I'm really gonna go into the damage settlement. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Then I'll come up with a block across the extraction level. Then I will deal with the other elements of what needs to be done and revised. This concerns, for example, the strengthening and revision of the gas contract, the so-called gas building. Then I want to see which questions I haven't answered and I'm going to go over the various questions per spokesperson. As long as they haven't been discussed before, I'll take them with me. The times I have been in Groningen, I have always summarized it with the words that Mrs Mulder also chose. The emotions I've seen most are anger and despondency, sometimes united in one person. The communication with Groningen has so far been relatively easy for me, because I have noticed that I have been in agreement with most of the Groningen people I have been in front of me so far. That's what makes the light. We all know that there are also files in the public domain that you are grinding your teeth with because you think what is being fired at you is unreasonable. But I haven't had that for a second here. For me, that is the reason for being in the position of solutions. I will try to answer the historical questions as best I can, but I can be less complete about them than about the way in which I want to move forward, because that is how I have done this dossier so far. Not a bad word; I have already said it in the press, but I will also say it here: I really regard this area as a failure on the part of governments, and I think that this should end. I know that I am responsible for this now, together with the region, but I do have an important role to play. I will say something later about why I consider this role of the Empire to be so important. Okay, first of all, let me get this straight. Going out with each other to get out is a beautiful Dutch tradition. It's very simple, but it's not easy. It's very simple, because it doesn't take anything else but to sit down and listen to each other, but it's not easy; we know that too. On the basis of substantive considerations, on which I shall say a few things, I think we can really get out of this. If you've been through that whole process and you see the wrong words or the wrong origin of documents flying by, I understand that you're thinking, "it's gonna happen again, this is gonna be a repeat of it" and you're gonna walk off the table. I'm speaking to representatives of the Groninger Soil Movement and the Groninger Gas Council myself tomorrow. They're here. I also spoke to the king's commissioner. My commitment will be to get past the content here. But first the next thing about that, because that explains something of the difference. That is actually the only historical work I have done in recent times. What the hell is going on here? What's the crux? What's it in? So what do we have to look out for to fix this? Since 1963 we have organized gas extraction in this society mainly as a private business. The NAM is a private company that wins gas. The role of the government is actually limited to supervision and a shareholder role, the only private role that the government can play. Those roles have remained like this for a long time, but they have remained like this for too long. I think we can say that. So at some point, when there's heavy soil movements and there's more massive damage, there's a turning point and you can't keep saying it's a private file. If the Council of Ministers is in a meeting and two cars bump into each other on the Voorhout, then we don't run out immediately, because that's just a private matter. There comes a time when you let me put it this way, should have acknowledged that it was supposed to be a public file. With a moving soil in a province it becomes a public record. I think we haven't done that for too long. The coalition agreement now gives me the room to "publicize" that. I will explain later what explanation I give to the coalition agreement on the various elements. In my opinion, I remain within what is intended, but with a broad explanation. In essence, this means that we are in many areas... Look, the NAM shouldn't have a role in the damages settlement. Many of you have said that. The NAM should have no role in the strengthening operation. The NAM should have no role in determining the level of extraction. So Groningers shouldn't have anything to do with the NAM either. Groningers report to a front door somewhere and the back door is somewhere a matter of the Empire. I think the untying of that front door and that back door is important. We're about to get to the damage protocol. It has to be reasonable on the front door and then I think it's up to me to get it to the back door, because liability stays where it is. That decoupling makes it a public record. That's inevitable. That is why the role of the coalition agreement is important. The performance listens closely, because it's actually a real change from how we've done it so far. The top priority now is not in any way a structural solution, but the most important step now is, of course, to resolve damage. It is funny that the Ombudsman is talking about legal gibberish. He's the lawyer; I find it a bit legal. The question is, of course, why a damage protocol? Why? There is someone who has damage and there is someone who is liable; why then a compensation protocol? It is important to take this into account, because the damage protocol is the instrument by which liability can be settled by an independent institution, independently of the NAM. The NAM has that underlying liability, but resolving it independently, independently of the NAM, is what regulates the damages protocol. The damage protocol doesn't regulate a lot of things either. A damages protocol should not restrict or affect the right to compensation for damage. A damages protocol should not affect the independence of the judgment. A damage protocol shouldn't affect an amount you get. That's not a damage protocol, if it's a good damage protocol. I'll tell you later what I did first on this file. The second thing I did afterwards has been wrong. A team of people from the region is working on that right now. I expressly invited civil society organisations. I have something to prove there, but "I" is not just me, but also the region. In my view and in my view, it is not at all a matter of disagreement at this stage. I do not see any clear differences between directors and I wonder if there are very large differences of opinion with civil society organisations. I'm gonna talk to them, but I'm curious. Sure, there's another concern of the county board, which I share, by the way. I will come back to civil society later, but the county administration and I have said that there is no point and that it is not desirable to put civil society on the line. They should be able to inform themselves about what lies ahead, also in relation to other arrangements. So that's a point that's still hanging. There has also been a request for a technical and legal test in the broad sense. I may speak a little for my turn, but I have always kept to what I believe to be a matter of substance in this dossier, even if it is sometimes absolved by the coalition agreement, which is the case once or twice, and if I am sometimes advised not to do so. A few times I walk something for the music. If I sketch it myself, I would see that the solution is somewhere in a window where all Groningers can go, under public control. I would see for myself that there is an independent assessment of damage by experts. This is clearly not done by stakeholders. So it should never be the NAM, but it shouldn't be the Empire. The Minister must also refrain from doing so, because it is to some extent important or may give the impression that it is important. None of that's supposed to happen. There should therefore be an independent injury assessment by experts whose action is to assess injury. We shouldn't want to go into that profession. We don't have to protocol them. They're experts. I think it is important to ensure that there is an individual assessment of each case. Those should not be cases where you say "we don't have to look at this" or "these are outside of competition" or "these are declared inadmissible." I think there should be an opportunity to object. We are from the government and we are used to being able to object and say: I do not believe it; I think it is wrong. Sometimes people make mistakes, but governments also make mistakes. Experts also make mistakes. That's what happens. With that, I am focusing purely on the front door: what should that window look like? I'm not negotiating damage with the NAM. That's another point. That's the back door. That could be messy and bloody; I don't know what it's gonna be like. But that's different. I'm trying to set up the front in a neat way, according to the standards we have here. That is what I am working on with the region and hopefully with the civil society organisations. That does not automatically mean that the outcome is that everyone gets everything. Everyone understands that; they understand that in Groningen. Let me tell you something. Damage reports came in from Gelderland. I think it's less than two weeks before we get damage reports from Utrecht. Maybe we'll even get them from Zeeland. We all know that a substantive assessment must also be a substantive assessment. It comes from the fact that, if there is a probability and we have the reverse burden of proof that is simply true, some people do not get something because damage is impossible for them, at least it seems to me very strong that there is damage from gas extraction in Gelderland. So that comes out, and we're gonna have to decorate it. That must be credible, because you can only be credible to the rest of the Netherlands if you rightly say yes to damage. But you can only be credible in Groningen if you rightly, understandably and transparently also once say no when damage is claimed. That needs to be done neatly and remotely. The NAM but also the Empire is not one of them. It must therefore be subject to public control in terms of system and it must be independent in case assessment. When I say "public," do I necessarily mean the government? Let's face it, it's about Groningen. So I can imagine that there are arrangements other than the Empire. In any case, it's said a lot: you're gonna have to take care of this now. I know that I can draw harder than my colleagues in the province to a system change, the publicization of the whole. I know I have to do that, but it's not one-sided the Empire. An independent establishment of the damage company is a wish of the Empire and the region. This is not the exclusive territory of the Empire either. The region is important. The region is co-government. I'm not in charge of the region. The region isn't in charge of me either, but no one thought so. We are equal governments. That too is a democracy, with representatives of the people who want something and who have views. I can waltz over there if everything else fails there are other things, but I'm assuming we have to do this together. I'm not in charge of the Groningers, and I don't decide what they want. We need to get together. That's Dutch and we're supposed to be able to do that. These civil society organisations are also Dutch. They also have a view and a role in the consideration. They must be heard in an appropriate manner, but only after they have been given the opportunity to explore what lies ahead. That's what I'm trying to do. When I have reservations about the phrase "you have to solve this," I sometimes mean that part of "you" is also in the gallery. This isn't a Hague thing. There's a lot of Haags about it, because a lot of things didn't go well whatever's in here. I know, but the way forward is not purely The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u157	I suggest that you complete your introduction before I give the floor to the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u158	Do you want me to say something about protocol? Look, so far it hasn't come. I read a lot about that and you read it. Is that very relevant? Here's what I'd like to say. I haven't spent a lot of time historicalally on this, but in my observation the cabinet is for this I was sitting in it, so I can say a few words about it or the department where I'm sitting now. I'm talking about myself in all kinds of ways during the missionary period just wasn't very receptive to proposals. It has not felt the mandate to be able to cut any buttons. As a result, this has not gotten traction, to use a modernism once in a while, I try to be modern now and then. That's what happened. Is it the formation? Well, at least it's not the forming parties; let's be clear about that. But during that missionary period there was simply insufficient mandate to say: this is, that is not, that sister and so on. That mandate is there now. In the meantime, the region has taken a head start, and it is not that bad. Soon I will be asked: how much longer now? It is a fact that in discussions with civil society organisations, at least by me, it has been said that we should be out in a few weeks. This has also been mentioned among directors and it has also been discussed in the Cabinet, "a few weeks," but I chose not to put pressure on civil society organisations through a hard deadline. They felt a substantive delay to the proposals that existed. They certainly have the right to ask for some breathing time to see what's in there and what they think about it. So I agreed not to set a hard deadline. That's what we agreed on. The drivers also agreed to do so. And I never will be, but if you do become Prime Minister and if you are later, it's up to you to sigh. Then it is up to you to give a personal opinion on that and to say that it should be a few weeks, but this is what the deal is. Everyone else is free to sigh. Some of you were pretty tight in sighing at that table, too. Others gave us a little more time. We're all free to do that. I would just like to say that my agreement with the region is to do it as quickly as possible, but as quickly as possible and not as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u159	Please continue. Were you finished with your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u160	There have been many specific questions that I will come across later, but this is what I wanted to say about the damage. We've been asked whether the arbitrators fit into that building somehow. I think so, but that still needs to be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you for explaining how the Minister looks at the damage protocol and what its status actually is, but I am curious to see which bottlenecks that are still on the table make it so incredibly difficult to close it in the short term. Of course, I hear the Minister say: I do not want to put pressure on civil society organisations, such as the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council. That is a credit to the Minister, but it should not be an excuse that we may be months later. So there is a very delicate balance in that. I don't want to pin anything on them. The Minister doesn't want that either, but I do want the damage to be recovered and dealt with. In fact, I am getting more signals that the problems would not be in that area but in other areas. Can the Minister be quite clear about exactly where the problems lie, which means that the damage protocol is not yet in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u162	No, I can't exactly, because that's why I'm going to talk to the organizations tomorrow. That's what this project is about. I'm not gonna talk for other parties. They'll have to do it themselves. I do not think it is my role to explain the views of others. They can do much better themselves. Let me put it this way: whenever I talk about this dossier, I hear things that I think would fit in my worldview; just say the worldview I have just read. I come across a remarkable number of players in this field who would say: well, maybe we can live with that. But I'm not gonna speak for those people. I'm not gonna negotiate in public here either. I'm just gonna say that I understand that we're in a bit of a hurry here. Yeah, it's a delicate balance. It's complicated. It's a delicate balance. This should not be the case for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u163	Unfortunately, over the last few years, I have encountered many inhabitants of Groningen who had an NAM against them who did not want to and did everything to get rid of them. Is that on the table? Is the NAM working this way, too? Then they must really be ashamed, you know, I say here to the NAM. Because if that is a problem, then it must be very clear on the table and then we must discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u164	I'm not gonna say here that the NAM is a problem. If the NAM is already a problem, I've just explained that that's my problem, at the back door. That is not part of the negotiations. I don't want to confront Groningers with the NAM. I want a reasonable protocol. What the NAM thinks of that is at the back door, and that's my problem. I do not think it is appropriate to turn individual residents of Groningen against the NAM. I also think that the assessment of a reasonable harm protocol does not depend initially on the NAM. I'll unplug that. There's a front door. We must deal with appropriate damage in a manner that is neat, both in terms of procedure and in terms of experts, independence and what I have just mentioned. After that, I'm gonna have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u166	Mr. President, didn't it go in threes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u167	No, I'm really gonna do it in half right now, because things are getting a little out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u168	I agree with much of the Minister's speech, and I also liked what he said about the secondary authorities with which this minister wants to raise, but does this also apply, for example, to opinions on the level of gas extraction, on the granting of new mining licences, on the level of export contracts and also on the rate of phasing out of gas use? Because those are the things that cause the damage. So it is very good that it is recognised that secondary governments and civil society organisations have a role to play. Is this Minister also open to opinions on those other issues that affect the Groningers as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u169	We'll be at the extraction level later, but I said I'd look at what's possible first. That is what I am going to discuss with the region, and after that discussion I will have to make a decision, I will inform the Chamber about it and I will set it in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u170	I may have asked unclearly. My question was as follows. The Minister would like to work together with the organisations and governments in Groningen. Necessary governments must come together to establish a protocol. Does this also apply to, for example, the height of gas extraction? Or is that something that this minister says: no, that is what I decide from The Hague; I do not need these civil society organisations and those secondary governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u171	I said it's my role to do that. I said that I was discussing this with the region before taking a decision. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u172	I hear the Minister say that no mandate has been felt in recent months and that is why there is no damage protocol yet. But in June, the Prime Minister promised speed and in response to the question whether it was possible during the formation that it was "statutory nonsense" that it could not be done. That doesn't match. Is what the Prime Minister said at the time rather than "baloney" to stay in his own words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u173	Well, if I may say it quite frankly, I think the Prime Minister is right that it is also not forbidden for a outgoing cabinet to take such measures, because this is part of the board. I only think that when there was the impression that the financial consequences or risks were such that this was more of a new cabinet. That's the assessment. I think it would have been quite possible, strictly speaking, to do this in a missionary cabinet, but the assessment has been another one. This was a personal sigh of the Prime Minister, but not one I'm doing something about. That's how it turned out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u174	Okay, so they could, but they didn't think Groningen was a priority, so basically the summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u175	That's not how I say it, no. No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u176	You could have done it, but you didn't do it. Then there's my follow-up question. Let's talk about the future. We already know that Gasberaad and the Groninger Soil Movement have run away from the table or do not even want to sit around the table. They are afraid that not the plan of the region is a starting point, but a plan already approved by the NAM, and that they now have to deal with an expensive consultancy agency. Can you promise me that you'll just go round the table without an expensive consulting agency? Are you taking the Groningen plan as a starting point? Will you also promise that you will already rule out the emergence of new contour lines, so that people who fall outside and have that damage, and there are thousands of people, can have their damage assessed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u177	Let's talk about the contour lines. I am not going to stand here and negotiate, but if you have listened carefully to me, I think there were quite clear beckons. My commitment is quite clear there, that every Groninger should be able to go to one window. You interpret it as you wish, but I am not going to negotiate here in this Chamber. That's not right. That's what I'm supposed to do with the Groningers. That's what I'm supposed to do in Groningen. I will speak tomorrow, among other things, of two representatives of the two civil society organisations. I'm speaking to the Groningen board. They don't negotiate in their democracy, and I don't negotiate here. That's what we have to do with each other first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u178	I'm a Groninger. And that's a point: it doesn't just concern Groningers. In Woldendorp, which is located in Groningen, but also in Drenthe, in Emmen there is earthquake damage. What matters, however, is whether another circle is drawn at the provincial border, an earthquake does not stick to it, or whether the Minister's point of departure when talking to those organisations is that those earthquake damage in Drenthe, in Woldendorp, are covered by that protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u179	That's exactly what we're talking about. Let me take this suggestion from Mr Nijboer. I haven't been that precise in my judgment. We'll take this with us, because this is a reasonable question. But again, let's not try here... Look, tonight, we're not getting into any damage protocol in this company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u180	No, but we are giving direction from the Chamber on what we consider desirable to come out of it. This direction has been given from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u181	A clear direction!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u182	Another question is what happens to all the damage cases that are already there, including from the past, not only from the last eight months in which the damage has been recorded, but also from the past few years. What are they gonna be in later? Do they have the same rights as the people who have suffered damage in recent times and who still suffer damage in the near future? Or are they treated differently and remain in the poaching misery with the NAM, the CVW and its settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u183	Once again, I am not going to negotiate here, but it would come up against my chest if we had a solution in which the existing cases had to report back to the NAM. I wouldn't like it if I didn't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u184	I hear you saying that these two weeks are probably not going to work and that you are taking the time that is needed. God knows how long that'll be. But from October onwards there is a draft protocol that comes from Groningen and which all Groningen organisations are satisfied with. Why can't you assume that? Mrs Mulder just asked you what the problems might be. If that draft protocol is there from Groningen, then the bottlenecks that exist can only come from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u185	I do not have any problems with what has been presented to me by the region, among other things. I understand the concerns that have been raised. I'd like to help solve that. "The time needed": I do agree with Mrs Mulder's delicate balance. If this is going to take too long, we have to do something somehow. I don't know what yet. I am afraid to think about it, because I am now focusing on the solution with the parties I am talking to. But that delicate balance is there. As far as "the time required" is concerned, Mrs Sazias suggests that this could last forever; let us not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u186	But let's get back to the damage protocol that's been in place since October and that's coming from Groningen. Why don't you just take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u187	It's not about me. It's about what we agreed between drivers. It's about something coming out. There are also concerns about what is now in store and what has been taken as a starting point. I'm not gonna stand here and negotiate. All proposals are for review. I am not going to take any statements here that are causing the negotiations in all kinds of ways. I have to respect the parties I'm talking to. I need to talk to them about the negotiations and not here in this Chamber. I've shown my starting position on main lines. I think that was very clear to the good hearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u188	The Minister says that the outgoing cabinet did not act very actively on this; I paraphrase him for a moment. That explains why nothing has been done from mid-March to early October, mid-October. But the new cabinet has been in the saddle for 82 days now. And the damage protocol has been there since the beginning of October, so it seems that the cabinet has not felt much urgency in the past 82 days. I don't think that happened until after last Monday's earthquake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u189	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u190	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u191	My question is: why hasn't the cabinet done so much in the first 75 days?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u192	I'm not going to make my agenda public here. But no, the statement that this was a very high priority certainly dates from before the quake. There are a number of other things that I'll come up with later, those that date before the quake. No, the cabinet doesn't move until there's a quake. It does illustrate that we just don't have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u193	But when the cabinet is in the saddle, at least 75 days nothing visible happens and after 82 days the Minister says that something must be done quickly and can also be done in those two weeks, I do not have it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u194	Efforts are maximum but they have not yet led to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u195	This is a very nice sentence. I had to think about that. In general, I appreciate the careful approach taken by the Minister. I mean that from the bottom of my heart, but the next thing is still a bit cramped. This seems to me to be a bit of an open-ended funding, if I translate it into the financial situation. What is needed to put more pressure on the process? Suppose this continues, there will be no result and it will muddle, what will happen then? At what point does the Minister say: now are we going to choose a different strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u196	I'm not gonna burden the negotiations with that kind of hand grenade pins you can pull out. I am now focusing on the conversations that exist. Again, I myself am convinced that it is possible. Maybe that's my naivety, but it was chosen by itself and out of total conviction. The things I hear on the other side of the table and on the other side of the phone don't seem very strange to me. At some point it is clear that there are transcending administrative responsibilities, but I am not going to anticipate them now. I think Mr Bishop understands why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u197	Yes, only set a slightly more aligned course without a mortgage on the conversations, because that part I share wholeheartedly can also be a matter of decisiveness. If this goes on for a few weeks and doesn't get any further, we're gonna lose faith. I'd like to warn you about that. My question to the Minister is: what will he do to prevent that in this part of the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mr Bishop says in other terms what Mrs Mulder says, namely that there are two sides to it. It is good to give the whole process a chance to achieve a result, but at some point there has to be a result. She called it a "delicate balance" and Mr Bishop called it "active power." Let's just say that we all know that this really needs to be settled in the foreseeable future, but I'm not gonna mortgage the conversations. He understands why, but I understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u199	I recognize the delicate balance. In recent years, we have had a lot of discussions about the extraction of gas. We have devised and set in motion a great deal to improve the settlement of damages for the people in Groningen. The Centre for Safe Living has been established, as has the reverse burden of proof and more measures. We were all there. Many proposals have also been supported by Parliament. However, prior to this debate, I spoke to someone who said that the chaos has only increased. It scared the hell out of me. With all good intentions, we seem to have arranged it in such a way that it is an administrative spaghetti and that the damage treatment for many people has become a swamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u200	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u201	My question to the Minister is: what gives him this time the confidence that we are going to do really well and that people do not end up in the swamp again? What gives the Minister the confidence that this is the right approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u202	Let me turn it around: I am convinced that we cannot do this in a normal way if we leave the NAM in here. The mistrust of the Groningen people alone will really not lead to peace in the situation. It's also just weird to have the person responsible for the damage determine the extent of the damage, which is a neat legal term, but you can also say: the person who caused the damage. That's not right. That's not how you set it up. If we don't change that, it won't work. Conversely, is it all right if we take the NAM out? I do not think so, because we must have sufficient handling capacity to do so, and we must gain experience in doing so. There must be ways in which Groningers, as well as Dutch, can gain confidence in that system. If you're gonna make a story, you're gonna have to be heard and if you're gonna file something, you need to have a good look at it. That does not mean that everything is approved, but that means that you do recognise that quality is being delivered and that justice is being done. We still have a way to go. It also depends on how it's operational. With just taking the NAM out, we're really not there yet. I see there's still a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u203	I'm just gonna keep that delicate balance in mind. I understand what the Minister is saying. He also uses a number of principles, for example that the NAM should get away. At the same time, he says: we are not there yet. Maybe I should just wait for the proposal that the Chamber gets back, but I am very curious to see what the Minister's starting points are. What would be the basis for such a proposal by the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u204	I have just mentioned the substantive points, but the handling should also be good. We still have some preparatory work to do. It's happening now in the domain of the NAM, but it has to come out. We have a whole processing plant to hang in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u205	What am I listening to? Sounds like there's a coach at work here, a relationship therapist. You're the boss. You are the leader of this trial. You should show leadership. You're in a decision-making position, but you're posing as a submissive counselor. That is exactly what is wrong with Dutch politics: no one dares make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u206	That's because I don't have the position of just expressing opinions on my own. I have to do it with a region. And yes, there is a delicate balance. I'm sure that's gonna end sometime. We have to take care of this, but this is pretty good now. You think that is wrong with Dutch politics, but I also think that is a strength of the Netherlands. We need to get out of this together first, and that's what I'm doing. I do not think that if I were to say from The Hague what it should be like, the civil society organisations or the provincial government or the municipalities would say: well, that's what you've done fantasticly from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yeah, I guess so. I think everyone is waiting for the moment you say: go, we're going to do it; in two weeks we'll have it arranged and on July 1st, all those Groningers will have the money in their accounts at the latest. The same goes for your relationship with the NAM. A means of pressure has to be formulated, and that is the lifting of the concession and the issuing of a new tender, whereby other companies can simply win the Groningen gas instead of keeping it all to the leash of the companies that got that deal 50 years ago. You must negotiate much harder!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u208	Fine, but first I'm gonna hear myself with the region. I'm going to do that first with the regional government and I'm going to hear the civil society organisations. I promised. I think that's an orderly process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u209	And how long is that gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u210	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u211	And yes, there comes a time when it is inevitable that something must happen. We will recognize that moment, but it is quite reasonable to do so first with a co-government and the civil society organisations that have been working on it for a year. And yes, the Empire did not play the role of the one who was able to tie the knot in the missionary period. So now it suits me to give them the space to say something about it. That's what I'm in. Mr Baudet does not think so. That difference of opinion must be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u212	The minister just made a crystal clear distinction between the front door and the back door. I think that is a good approach, because the Groninger should not have anything to do with the NAM; it should indeed be able to go to a single point of contact so that it can have its damage assessed independently and so that the damage can be dealt with quickly. On that point, I fully support the Minister's line. I also hope that he will reach that agreement soon. I do have a question about that. The Minister says about the damages protocol: now give me time to finish the talks. But that one window, what's it gonna be? Is that the CVW? Do we have to rebuild that and so on? Does the National Coordinator have sufficient mandate to take up his role in this? What action can the Minister take now, pending that final damage protocol? It would be a real shame if, in a few weeks' time, we had such a damage protocol, then we would have to set up that window again for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u213	The final solution is an Institute for Mining Damage with an independent fund that needs to be filled. That is the final solution. There must now be an interim solution whereby it is clear that the State and the NAM are not in the individual damage handling that is operational. But it'll be an intermediate solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u214	The intermediate solution with such a fund et cetera, is that something we can arrange here from The Hague, so that it will be ready for Groningen? And if so, when can we start?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u215	I'm working on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u216	And again, it's all about the damage protocol, the legal gibberish; I said it in my first term. I've heard the Minister say several times that he doesn't want to negotiate here. Basically, he doesn't have much to say here at all. Isn't he saying that because it could undermine his own negotiating position? By that, I mean his negotiating position with the NAM. Isn't it true that the NAM is simply involved in the creation of the damage protocol and that the NAM should finally agree to that? Then my question is: what is the point in practice that the NAM should be put at a distance? I read today in the NRC that even by now there would have been direct consultation with Shell and Exxon, the owners of the NAM. Is that right? Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u217	That comes later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u218	Then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u219	I'm not talking to these parties about damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u220	The next question I would like to ask is the following. If we know that, if the NAM actually has a very big finger in it, then how can the Minister guarantee that in the end there will be a damage protocol that will be in the interest of the Groningen and will not try in any way to level out the liability of the NAM? Because that's what NAM is constantly trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u221	I have said that in shaping this protocol together with the region, I am focusing on something reasonable on the front door, which is fair to the Groningen. The back door is something else. That should not interfere with that. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u222	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u223	Yes. I'm coming to the extraction. That was where I first ran into after my arrival, even before the damage protocol. A long-term plan was already in the process of winning from the previous cabinet. That's a promise, too. I then made that commitment in the first quarter. It is a question of how we can reduce gas in the long term. But at the very beginning you will of course see the same state that Mr Wassenberg quoted here. You look at that and you think: well, that's not a situation that makes you feel very comfortable. There's still a substantial chance of severe tremors. Moreover, I find it very uncomfortable to say that the maximum that you want to do from the point of view of security of supply and the minimum that you are supposed to do from the point of view of security of supply are the same. That's extremely uncomfortable. I said in Groningen that I felt painted in the corner. In November, I started an inventory to see what could happen to this cabinet period, not in the longer term, but much earlier. That inventory started in November. The coalition agreement refers to that 1.5 billion cuub, but I was free to read that coalition agreement as follows: that 1.5 billion cuub is an estimate of what was possible with the knowledge of that time, but the spirit of the coalition agreement was indeed to go down as much as possible within this cabinet period. That is how I have read it, and no one in the participating groups and in the cabinet has contradicted me. As long as it is not contradicted, it seems to me to be a sensible line. We started that inventory. We've done it on all fronts. Of course, it starts with the question of how quickly you can make the existing homes more sustainable. We also have to count on the fact that, as a general rule, new neighbourhoods are no longer connected to gas. In the climate agreement we will have to make a move in this, because it is not only important from a climate perspective, my colleague from BZK also believes that this is important, but also from the perspective of the Groningen gas. That's one. The second is that we have large consumers. These are going to be irretrievably unpleasant conversations. A small 40 large consumers already use more than 3 billion cubs. The roughly 200 direct connections use more than 5.5 billion cubic metres. These are all individual companies. They have no alternative now. They are dependent on low-caloric gas. It is a very large inventory to map out who is where, how close to high-caloric gas they are, what is the nature of the type of process, and whether there is in principle a possibility of conversion. They all receive a letter, or have received it in part; that goes in instalments. We're gonna have a conversation there, too. They're all being approached. The letter is mine. I don't go to all 200 myself, but there's gonna be a delegation. It's just gonna take stock with them how fast that can be. That letter is a fairly punitive letter, because I think that's what the situation is. We need to see a large proportion of these large consumers in this cabinet period to switch. It all goes one by one. It's gonna be a big operation, but I don't see any alternative. "We have code red!" is called from the stands. That's right. So that means we have to get rid of the gas. In the long run, we have to get rid of the gas anyway. Mr Wassenberg mentions 12 billion, but there will also be scenarios that go to zero. But important within this cabinet period are the large consumers, that second category. The third category is exports. Mrs Van Tongeren asked why new contracts are being concluded over and over again? No, it's parties that are physically dependent on low-caloric gas. Of course, that physical dependence has to come out. That means those parties have to switch neighborhoods for neighborhoods. There are also some other unpleasant things, because some of them, some of them export, go to foreign electricity production, to our neighbouring countries, where alternatives are now under pressure, both coal and nuclear energy. So we still have some really difficult discussions with neighbouring friends, who are physically dependent on our gas and who have already made quite ambitious agreements with us on its phasing out. But I'm gonna talk to that again anyway, or we're talking to that already. All this must lead to gas extraction already going down. In doing so, I feel free to do so with the coalition agreement, and I do not feel free to do so with regard to financial considerations relating to the revenue from gas extraction. I didn't do that. I didn't do that. I'm just looking at how we can reasonably get the volume down in this cabinet period as much as possible, avoiding the Minister of Finance. That's what I do. That means that in the long run... Oh, sorry, I forgot one. A very serious option that is still in the race and participates, is the nitrogen installation. He also participates in the recital. I'll make the whole package. A cabinet decision has to be made and then it comes to the Chamber in the first quarter. All these options are discussed and budgeted and there is a proposal for them. So in the long run, we have to get rid of the gas. Mr Wassenberg has already said it. I do not fully support the declaration of the 12 billion. This was later put in a completely different light by the SodM. But in this case, I don't need the SodM to establish that we have the plan to get rid of the gas. But the important thing is that I have the most headache of the attempt to achieve a substantial reduction already in this cabinet period. That's coming to the chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u224	Is this the point of the extraction level ready as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u225	There are some questions about the SodM opinions and about what the NAM opinions mean. I can answer that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u226	Maybe that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u227	Yes. Code red means that the rule protocol will enter into force because the ground acceleration has exceeded a certain value. This means that the NAM has an opinion on this, but it is the SodM that advises the cabinet. It'll be here in two weeks. The SodM is really looking at safety. Then, in accordance with the ruling of the Council of State, a balance must be struck between security of supply and security of supply. Anyway, I can't do that until the moment there is. I would therefore like to take into consideration how far gas extraction could go down in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u228	I hear people say, "Delivery security? We want security of life!"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u229	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mrs Beckerman, do not involve people in the public gallery in the debate, because they really cannot interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u231	Okay. For years the Groningers were told that the crane was won by hand. So if things were to go wrong, we could go right back. That's what "hand on the crane" means. In fact, it turns out that we have a wheel in front of us and there is no plan at all for it to be exceeded. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u232	If that has been said in the past, that is not true. I'd think it was important to know where that was. The hand-to-the-crane principle applies to the small fields. The Groninger field works with the measurement and control protocol. So if one of the values is exceeded, something must be done. In all honesty: this was also exactly the uncomfortable feeling that hit me first when I arrived. We are in a situation where we have little room for manoeuvre because the minimum has become equal to the maximum. That's so uncomfortable that we've set in motion an attempt to get it down. Hopefully, in the first quarter, I'll make a statement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u233	But ambition doesn't stand up to your house. That's the problem. Can the Minister now undertake to put the first concrete actions on paper in two weeks' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u234	I mentioned the first quarter. It's a hell of a operation. I think Mrs Beckerman can also see that you are not doing this all at once with 200 large consumers, 3 exporting countries, power plants and whatnot. I really want to do that as soon as possible, but in two weeks, I'm not gonna make that happen. Well, then it's gonna be a bit of a bunch of bullshit. It's gotta be right. I need to be able to make it happen because it's connected to the nitrogen plant. It is also important and really a serious option. I can't witch; that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u235	The minister says that abroad is physically dependent on the Groningen gas as it is now exported. How does the Minister explain that abroad Groningen gas is converted into high-caloric gas? How does he explain that there have been and have been customers who would like to take less Groningen gas for abroad, but that GasTerra kept them to the contracts? How then is it possible that electricity is produced from Groningen gas abroad, when we absolutely have sufficient power generation capacity in the European market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u236	That's too many questions at the same time, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u237	How is it that we set a record in the export of Groningen gas? That quantity increased in 2015, 2016 and 2017. This can not only be absolute physical dependence abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u238	The parties that are physically dependent on Groningen gas have simply decreased more due to the weather and winter. That is what the parties that count on it tell me. Wherever we can get rid of it, we must not hesitate. Really, it's all being watched. But the physical dependence is really an obstacle to large volumes of volume. That too can be changed. It's not forever and you can do something about it, but not one-two-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u239	I understand that the total export volume cannot be one-two-three to zero, but this file has been dragging for a while. These issues were not addressed by this Minister but by Rutte II. Nothing's been done. It is not true that we are really physically dependent on the gas we are exporting now. The KNMI and the European forecasts also show that the winter in 2017 was no more extreme than the winter in 2016 or 2015. So that just can't be an explanation. I hope that this Minister will get that on the table soon and give me his word that we will stop what does not necessarily have to be exported because of physical dependence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u240	Mrs van Tongeren makes me very curious, because this would mean that on the parts where she is right, she will allow me to go down faster. In that sense, I would like to receive the email from her with the more concrete suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u241	Still a little bit to that 12 billion cube and that 0 billion cube. That 12 billion cube has not been declared sacred by me. I don't have that much with sanctification or sacred houses anyway, except to kick it sometimes. That 12 billion cube is the amount where the SodM says the seismicity is nil. That's different from a seismicity that's acceptable. The Minister agrees with us that gas extraction should go down and eventually even down to zero. We are not going to make it through this cabinet period, but I would like us to pre-sort on that. When I look at the coalition agreement, I see that 2024 and 2030 are also being looked at, and that is all outside this cabinet period. But there are already very vague plans...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u242	What's the question, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u243	My question is: can the Minister go back to 12, but above all go see how we can go to 0? That doesn't have to be done in detail, but can he set out broad lines for future Cabinets? 'Cause they're gonna be there soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u244	I think it's a good idea not to argue over the 12th. I have here the document in which the SodM speaks of the 12. That is more nuanced than Mr Wassenberg says. I don't think he and I here need the SodM pronunciation to establish that it has to go further down. Those are the scenarios he's gonna get.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u245	Even for the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u246	Yes, the longer term ones, yes, and also the scenarios that come to 0.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u247	The Minister also said that new neighbourhoods should no longer be connected to gas. Will there be concrete measures? Are gas connections going to be banned? Is it being made more expensive? Is that included?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u248	Those are the things we need to take into account in the climate agreement. I have promised Mr Wassenberg that in the first quarter he will have the long-term scenarios, including those going to 0. Oh, yeah. That's what's gonna happen. We do not need the SodM opinions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u249	The Minister just said that the spirit of the coalition agreement is for him that we go down as much as possible with the extraction. I fully support the Minister. The more the extraction can go down during this cabinet period, the better. But I'd like to get one specific group out. Those are the big consumers in the industry, because in the short term we can, I think, take the biggest hits there. For the management of expectations towards the plan that comes in Q1, I would like to ask what possibilities the Minister is considering to get the large consumers off the gas. Is that seducing and asking nicely if they want to get rid of the gas? Or is that part of the conversion to other heat and energy sources? Or is that perhaps in the extreme case also the obligation for companies to go off Groningen gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u250	Let me do that with those individual companies. I think that Mr Jetten also recognizes here that it costs money if you pre-sort on one and create resistance when you pre-sort on the other. Let's just let this team that's pretty proficient at that go on. Gradually, we find out how successful we are. Then we can always adjust. I would also like to keep Mr Jetten informed. It matters to all of us. This is essential. Then there's more. Of course, we are all talking about the level of extraction and the damage protocol, but, frankly, there is more going on. Look, this operation came about at a time when it had to be strengthened with great haste. There's a lot of experience in that, but you might wonder if we're about to think it's ideal. I think there are enough people and enough members of this Chamber who say that they still see a few possibilities to organise the strengthening operation in a different way. We all hear stories about the treatment and the trajectory that people have to go through. You hear these stories as well as I do. To be honest, that's why I think this consultant is doing a very valuable job. Because he has a lot of experience in how you treat customers. Well, people with damages aren't customers, but I have no objection to people being treated like customers. This applies to things such as the lead time, the clarity and certainty people get, how people can own their homes and say something about them themselves. I've talked to people who say, "Then and then my home is decided." Isn't that a weird way to talk about your own place? Something's not right. Then the combination with other societal challenges is very important. If you have to make a terraced house more sustainable, it costs €80,000. If you bring it to construction, it'll cost a lot less. Then you also have all kinds of options in it. You then have a much more innovative way of doing things. So that's what we need to take with us. This fits in with the vision that the region is making with us: the challenges of shrinking and growth and the challenges of ageing, in part. Do you want people to go back to exactly the same house or do you want to mean something to them by saying: while we're at it...? It's not like the Empire, the county, or the municipality determines all that for you. There are still options. People need to be able to make their own choices, but we need to facilitate them more. Driven from today's practice, everyone has the feeling that this could be done better and that we need to take a closer look at it. That's what's happening now. This must also be linked to the vision in itself that the region is making with the support of the Empire. I have been jointly responsible for the success of this, although the content of course has to come from the region more than from me. But I've promised that the cabinet will help put the shoulders on that. It's all happening. There's a whole structure for that, but that's all completely boring, so I'm not going to talk about that. What I do want to talk about is the gas building. That's another part of this trajectory. The State is part of the gas building. That's the partnership between Shell, Exxon and the State. It dates back to 1963. Most of them are public, but some of them aren't, which also makes me feel unhappy. That's true. I'll get to that in a minute. Look, those appointments don't work anymore, in any way. The way we deal with risks, the roles, the governance, the payment system and the link with security of supply are all wrong. Everything about roles and distribution is basically outdated, so we need to establish now. We are now in a phase that is not a build-up or stationary. We are in a situation with a view of an end game, in which also the damage handling and responsibilities need to be reviewed. That's what we're all doing. I do not intend to say anything about these negotiations, but we are conducting them now. It is now being discussed with the oil companies. Most of it about the gas building is public. We've talked about it once before, but sometimes there are shadows in things that I think they don't have to be shadowy. I can therefore imagine that there will be a technical briefing on this at some point; I do not find that strange. But there is a core that I cannot ignore, because there are agreements about it. These are, by the way, very old agreements. It's called the agreement of cooperation. I'm not allowed to make that public. That's what I have to stand for, because that's my role. I myself do not like things that are not public, especially when it comes to governments, but this is contractually established. Unfortunately, there is not much I can do about this, but I can arrange a briefing on this in confidence. I can do that. I can't do the rest. Maybe I would, but there's no point in saying that, because it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u251	Were you done with this point? It is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u254	It is quite remarkable that Mr Wiebes says that most is public, because the core is not public. The most important thing, what it's all about in the end, is not public. Who's gonna pay for the damage? Where exactly is the responsibility? That's what we want to know. The Minister may say that most of it is public, but the most important thing is not public. That's not possible in a democracy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u255	Well, I think the most important thing is public, like all the things about stock ratios and the distribution of both costs and revenues. We have even discussed this in the previous debate in this Chamber. Most of it's public. Apparently, but then I quote experts, part of what's in it has become public by mistake. But I've been contractually held to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u256	You are hiding behind a made agreement, because you are not prepared to really negotiate to break that concession and cooperation agreement. This can be done very easily by using the termination of the concession as a threat. That's what you can do, that's the leadership you can show. Then you get the NAM at the table and then first the agreements can be made public and secondly concrete means of printing will be applied so that the NAM will pay. That is what you must do, and you refuse to do so. You're scared of it. Everything shows that you're shy, that you're careful. You have to break that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u257	I'm not hiding behind anything, but I'm sticking to something. The breach occurs in that sense, but you estimate the position as the Empire could use it completely wrong. I'm not going to say anything else about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u258	That's exactly what you need to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u259	No, no, no. Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his promise that we will be briefed on this. I agree with him that the last thing the Groningers need is billions of lawsuits against the state, Shell and Exxon. That's just distracting attention from what it's all about, and that's Groningen. I would like to know so that I can check and understand why it is not possible for the Chamber to have access to it. It can hardly be competitive, so I do not understand why we should not see it as confidential. I would also like to be able to check in a way how the gas building will look and perhaps contribute some useful thoughts to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u261	What do you say we do that in that confidential technical session? Conversing here on what happens when or when doesn't happen makes it unclear. Shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u262	Then you've arrived...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u263	... to the individual questions, in so far as they are not...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u264	...have been answered in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u265	I shall begin with Mrs Van Tongeren, in so far as her questions have not yet been answered. She asked the question about the 50 million. In the previous debate, I had that question by chance from her colleague Van der Lee. You are quite consistent in your group discipline; congratulations. I don't know if I should give the answer. Maybe we shouldn't. Let me take one thing as a special point of interest. I think I have assured Mrs Van Tongeren once before that the NAM can still pay for the damage in the future. She's asked again now. She's usually very well informed. I'm gonna do this another way. I'm gonna look more detectively at whether there's smoke or fire somewhere, because she's not asking for nothing for a second time. I think I have a reassuring answer, but I'm not going to tell you that for the second time until I've been back to the drawing board once. Shall we do it like this? In the event of interruption, Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether the same rules apply elsewhere in the Netherlands. I am going to repeat the answer I gave earlier. The Technical Committee on Soil Movement is coming up with an opinion. On that basis, I will take a decision, after which we will have a discussion with each other. I'm just gonna have to check the question about the aphrodisiac. That's also a point of departure. We've been asked if the government can compete with Shell and Esso. Well, at least Mr Baudet doesn't think so. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u266	That was entrapment. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u267	I'm sorry, but this is really the important point. Earlier I heard Mr Wiebes say that I totally misjudged the negotiating position of the Dutch State with regard to the NAM; end quote. That should logically follow the conclusion that you therefore think that the Dutch State has a very poor negotiating position vis-à-vis the NAM. Then you say: I do not want to say anything about that. Now you say: unlike Mr Baudet, I think we can easily compete with Shell and Exxon. I don't get it anymore. You're totally contradicting yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u268	No, I think your sketch of the strengths and weaknesses is quite different from how I estimate them. In the end, I think we are a full partner and we can get out of this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u269	What did you mean when you said that I totally misjudged the negotiating position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u270	What I don't want is for everyone in the country to think you're right. At the same time, I do not want to say all kinds of things about negotiations. If a firm pronunciation can lead a life of its own that can cause all kinds of Dutch people to worry, I sometimes want to give a hint that it should not be immediately accepted as the pure truth. That's what I wanted to do. But I am not going to say another word about it, because these are my negotiations and, as you say, they are very important. We agree on that. That's why I'm not going to say anything about it. That's my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u271	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u272	I have answered many of Mr Wassenberg's questions. Some of his questions were more rhetorical and others were factual. Let me say it quite explicitly: it has nothing to do with the dividend tax. I do not see the reduction in extraction as a financial dossier. So I want it out of that atmosphere. That's not the point. I don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u273	Mr. Wassenberg, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u274	I had also explicitly linked it to something positive, namely the idea of transforming Groningen from a fossil energy region to a sustainable energy region. You could use money for that, too. This is separate from the production of gas, but the question is how to make Groningen a sustainable energy province.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u275	We have other plans and budgets for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u276	I'd like to suggest that you speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u277	Mr. Chairman. I have already answered some of her questions, but Mrs Yeşilgöz also wonders how the seal goes. Sealing is not very popular in gas country, because there is basically just a gas line with pressure on it. It could take decades. It is not seen as a desirable situation. It's an obstacle. You seal it when someone is a depayer or if a house is uninhabited, but you don't do that to warm your home in another way for 20 years. That's not how you'd want to do it. Actually, you're trying to handle it neighborhood-oriented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u278	Of course, we really want to tackle it neighborly, but I meant something else by saying that sealing might be an option for the longer term. At the moment I would like to give the space and freedom to Dutch people who say: I want to get rid of the gas voluntarily, but I can or I don't want to make very high costs and I don't want to wait until the whole neighborhood is decorated in that way. Then investigating whether you can decorate the seal for a long time is an option. If the Minister does not think that is such a good option, then I would like other options, so that people can choose freely but not lose money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u279	If someone volunteered to report that they're trying to get rid of the gas, it would be hard if they couldn't. That would also be bureaucratic. Let me see how far we get in the climate agreement. Then we can revisit this. Existing homes off the gas is, of course, an important goal. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u280	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u281	Then there is the idea of setting up a cooperative to buy up houses and rent them back. In itself, there is a buy-back arrangement. There is also a follow-up to this. But the idea that Mrs Yeşilgöz calls is actually a different idea. That's the idea of filling a cooperative with properties to buy. So that is actually a different idea from the buy-back scheme. I know that idea, too. All kinds of parties, including private parties, could organize it. Maybe it should go there eventually. Then it's a connection between all kinds of neighborhoods. But I don't want to interfere with a flight forward here right now. Even if you do it in co-operatives, you're gonna have to do some serious damage. I'm gonna focus on the main things right now. I want to know at the end of Q1 what happens to the gas extraction. I really want that damages settlement done. These things can all be added to that one way or another. But this is not my top priority right now. I have already answered Mrs Mulder's arbitrator's question. She asked me what I am going to do with the unclear advice of the NAM. I just told you that I'm not gonna do anything with that in principle. I'm gonna do something with the SodM recommendations. I have already said something about the owner who must have an influence on his own house and the 'financing arrangements'. That's a word I use all the time. Maybe we bumped into each other somewhere and we took over each other's words, but it's exactly how I think it should be. About Overschild I just don't have a very good answer. The existing operation is led by the National Coordinator Groningen. To be honest, I have no interest in that. It's kind of weird if you want to do that from The Hague. I don't see how you can weave that up. It has been agreed with the region that the NCG will take on board good ideas about how to do better, as soon as they come, in its existing operation, where it is possible, but I have no idea about this particular area and I simply do not have any interference with it at the moment. We should put that with the National Coordinator. We should ask him, but at the same time we should ask the municipality under which this falls. I just don't feel mandated to say anything about it here, and if I already feel it, I probably didn't have any sensible lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u282	In short, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u283	Would the Secretary of State agree to the CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u284	Minister. He's a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u285	Sorry. Would the Minister like to talk to these residents to hear for themselves what they are up against? Because I find it very worrying when I hear at the table that the report has already been written that your house is unsafe, but that there is no further procedure. What does it mean to you? What's gonna happen to your house? What's your own influence as a resident? What choice do you have? Suppose half of the approximately 125 houses in such a village have to be demolished, what kind of village is left? Then you're talking about town renewal. Then you should also see how you're going to do it in a good way and what people themselves need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u287	I would like to make it quite clear, Mr President, so that the Minister can reconnect this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u288	No, it's gotta be short. The same goes for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u289	The verdict of a Groninger I just repeated, "they're going to decide about my house," was one of those residents. This shows exactly what Mrs Mulder is putting forward. People feel like they're not at all about their own situation anymore. But I'm not gonna discuss that with the residents, because I'm not the person for that. I'm gonna go talk to the National Coordinator Groningen and talk to the residents. That's what it's about. I can come by a little bit and go there without any influence to keep a chat story, but I don't feel like it. That's no use to these people. The one who's working on that right now is the National Coordinator with his organization, and I'm gonna ask him this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u290	Perhaps the minister there, together with the National Coordinator, could just listen to what the inhabitants are up against. Then he can let the National Coordinator act on that, so that there is a real future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u291	Without pretending that I have spoken to enough people there: yes, I have spoken to the National Coordinator Groningen with some of those people. The observations are quite similar to those of Mrs Mulder. If we want to speed things up, we need to leave the organization that is working on it to make a move. But I'm sure I'm gonna talk to these people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u292	I suggest that you really look at the questions that have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u293	Yeah, I'm gonna try to speed up. Mr Nijboer asks where we need to cut back if the gas extraction goes down. That's really something for the spring note. Whether that's necessary at all, I don't even know. I'm not the Minister of Finance either. This is not the place to discuss that. I have decoupled that and the cabinet has decoupled it, so that is not the subject of this debate as far as I am concerned, but it will certainly come back in other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u294	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u295	Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u296	At least that's what I thought. Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u297	I have had rather intensive debates on this with the Minister of Finance, because I very much disagreed, by the way, with GroenLinks and then with the entire opposition, that the cabinet has decided that we need to cut back if gas extraction is to go down. Those are new budgetary rules. It never was, but it's been decided now. I understand that the Minister does not want to mention austerity, but I do not agree with that. Is that off the table? Does that budget rule go away, and is Groningen not being played out against other interests such as care, education, security and police? Or does it stand and the Minister not answer this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u298	I am not the one to answer that either, but this moment is not the time to answer that. There is another debate for that. That could be the spring note. That is where this debate needs to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u299	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u300	That other debate I had at the Financial Reviews, at the Autumn Note and then I got zero on Minister Hoekstra's rehearsal. He just said, "we're not changing it, your motion is being dissuaded" and then the coalition voted it out. It's one thing or the other. If the Minister says we're not going to cut back on that, I'm glad. I may sound a little hostile now, but I am very glad that this minister says: we are not going to do that. But then I don't want to be with Minister Hoekstra again next week and say: we're gonna do it and take a look at it, Mr Nijboer, with your proposals. So how's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u301	I am very sorry that Mr Nijboer has been so disappointed in a budget discussion with my colleague, the Minister of Finance, but the solution is not to have the same discussion with me, just as he is not having his climate discussions with Mr Hoekstra. So I am sorry that it has been disappointing, but I am not the one who can help him out, and this is not the time to do so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u302	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u303	Mrs Dik-Faber has asked a lot of questions, which I have answered to a great extent. Is closing clusters going to lead to trouble-moving? These are all things that should be included in the SodM recommendations. And if not, I ask for clarification. But those aren't answers I can give now. The watchfleet. These are the clusters, for example the Loppersum clusters, which are at the minimum, but the minimum is not even very limited, because it is about large compressors that need to be kept warm. So the minimum is disappointingly high. But that's the minimum, unless you decided to finally say goodbye to clusters, but that's another story. I'm sure it's all part of the search, but this is what it is. How do we prevent the monuments... I have a monument answer in my notes somewhere, but I don't have it right now. She'll have to pay for the second term. I think Mrs Sazias' points have been discussed, including the wording of SGP and CDA, including the precarious balance sheet and the government that is in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u304	Short, Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u305	First of all, my question about reducing gas extraction in Groningen should not lead to production elsewhere. The Minister indicated very quickly: I'm not going to say anything about that now, that's what State surveillance is going to advise on. I am very curious about that, because I already read in the newspapers that the NAM has said: no production in Friesland to absorb the reduced gas extraction in Groningen, unless new production sites are added. I get the feeling that Friesland is getting more gas because in Groningen it is being phased out. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u306	I am not going to respond until I have some advice on this, because I do not have any independent judgements on this at the moment. I think she would, too. Let's listen to the advisor who has the cabinet before we have any views on it. I don't have any other answers to offer her. I take note of her concern. I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u307	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u308	There was one more question left for me. It would be nice if the Minister could make a commitment on that, because that would save another motion. In the coalition agreement we made nice agreements about extra money for mental care. I would very much like that money to be made available quickly, in consultation with the region, if possible this year, because the need is high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u309	Yeah, that's a good one, too. I wrote that down somewhere, but I don't know the answer by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u310	Perhaps you will come to that in a moment, but I know Mrs Dik-Faber very well: if you do not, she will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u311	Yeah, we'll write these on the bar, too. Maybe somebody should help me write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u312	I'd still like to ask how much longer you think you'll need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u313	I'm trying to do it real fast. I had already answered many of Mr Jetten's questions. Let's see. The individual guidance and social cohesion. Yes, the funds are available from 2018. That is an answer to Mr Jetten. The heat grids and heat pumps, he knows that we are taking them with us in the climate agreement. How do we weigh the monumental value, he asked. First of all, monuments must not be demolished. For special buildings, these boundaries are higher. On top of that, the competent authority, i.e. municipality and county, can map and record what needs to be preserved. Regional authorities therefore have instruments for this. The Heritage Programme is also the guiding principle for this, so everything is on top of each other. Mr Jetten asked about spiritual support. I think I just failed Mrs Dik-Faber. The spiritual support should come from that fund from the region. So it's also up to the region. There is also consultation with the region. But in the end, it is the region that deals with this. I feel Mr Jetten wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u314	Yeah, me too. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u315	I just heard the Minister say that the mental support budget will be available in 2018. That's fantastic. A clearer question then is whether this goes directly to municipalities, for example through the Gemeentefonds, so that they can use it. I think it would be a good idea to clarify very quickly how that money actually becomes available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u316	We also put this on the list for the second term. Eventually, the buy-back scheme. I got it right here. There's gonna be a sequel. The start is just the first quarter. There's money for that. So that pilot can continue to be funded. Mr. Bishop. Let's see. I can't confirm the blackmail points out of my own perception, no, I can't. But I can imagine things happening that you don't want them to happen. In any case, I think trust will only come back if the NAM gets out of there. With that, apart from those three points, I was through the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u317	I see that Mr Baudet has a question that has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u318	The Minister has not addressed my points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u319	I said the gas building is being renegotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u320	In secret, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u321	Sure. That's how negotiations sometimes go. And you told me that if I didn't take care of everything on July 1st, there would be a wave. I've taken note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u322	In addition to your knowledge, can you also comment on that? Is that what you're gonna do? Is it feasible? Can you guarantee that? Can you explain that plan here tonight? All those people sitting here. Can you say: yes, on July 1st they have their money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u323	I have said that the protocol must be followed first, and I have said that I will shiver at the word'months'. Must have been done in weeks. I explained why I'm not setting a deadline for that. That is what Mr Baudet said, but I have on my agenda to keep the region on board for as long as possible and to regard it as an equal partner. That's a difference of opinion. The second thing I have said is that I am preparing to implement it with the region, because we need to be able to start it. But I can't predict whether we've paid all those damages before 1 July. I simply can't do that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u324	Thank you. So that brings us to the end of the government's first term. We now move on to holding a second term. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the person responsible calls the gas extraction situation in Groningen a government failure of non-Dutch proportions;]] [[In a few weeks' time, the government requests:]] [[come up with a damage protocol for mining damage along the lines of the Groningen concept, which is then legally anchored;]] [[ensure adequate access to (legal) advice and support for people with mining damage;]] [[launch the creation of an independent mining damage fund under public direction;]] [[and also to bring down the extraction of gas as quickly and as far as realistic as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Beckerman, Nijboer, Wassenberg, Agnes Mulder, Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Jetten, Dik-Faber, Kops, Sazias and Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-406]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I have one short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all Dutch must be treated equally;]] [[Whereas problems are caused by mining outside Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government to treat all Dutch residents living in mining areas in accordance with the same rules as regards compensation for the consequences of mining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Beckerman, Nijboer, Wassenberg and Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-407]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u327	Then I would like to thank the Minister for a strong series of commitments and for the confidential briefing on the contract. That's farther than we've ever come. I will give the Minister the information on those places where, in my humble opinion, there is an opportunity to reduce exports of Groningen gas abroad in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for his answers and commitments. Mr. Chairman. In November, the judgment of the Council of State stated that the minister's predecessor had insufficient regard for the safety of the inhabitants of the gas extraction area and that he did not examine sufficiently the possibilities for reducing gas extraction. When it comes to the resolution of earthquake damage, the National Ombudsman speaks of an irrefutable administrative grievance. For the Animal Party, that is sufficient reason to ask for a parliamentary inquiry into the extraction of gas in Groningen, because here so much structural, long-term, willingly misguided that it has to be sorted out to the bottom. A parliamentary survey is the best instrument for this. In July 2016, I tabled the same motion together with colleague Dik-Faber. She was then the first petitioner. I hope that, after all the developments of the last few months, the coalition will also be able to support this motion, because this must really be the bottom line. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas truth finding is essential in order to restore confidence for the Groningen people;]] [[Whereas it is necessary for the House of Representatives to have an in-depth understanding of how the gas building has functioned since 1963, how it has dealt with the risks and security of citizens, how political decision-making has taken place, and what the influence and interests of private companies are;]] [[Whereas this understanding is necessary, inter alia, to take the appropriate measures for the future and to draw lessons from it for the future;]] [[Considers that a parliamentary survey should not result in delays in repairing or delaying the risk of earthquakes and mining damage;]] [[points out that a parliamentary survey on gas extraction in Groningen should be carried out;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of the research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-408]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u330	I have one more shorter motion, the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet says to put security first;]] [[Whereas the recent earthquake in Zeerijp again demonstrates the need for rapid return to a safe level of gas extraction;]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines concluded that the seismicity of gas extraction of up to 12 billion cubic tons of gas per year would be virtually nil;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures within two weeks to rapidly reduce gas extraction ("hand-to-the-crane principle") and to draw up a phasing-out plan to quickly reduce gas extraction to the safe level of 12 billion cubic cubic metres of gas per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-409]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u331	Mr. Chairman. This in no way feels like a satisfactory end to this debate. We wanted action. The time for brainstorming out loud is over. This may not be the fault of this minister but of the other minister, who did not want to come today, the Prime Minister. As far as we're concerned, the Minister has two weeks. Then there is the supervisor's advice and we have a new debate as far as we are concerned; as far as I am concerned, with the Prime Minister. I really want to impress the Minister: in the meantime, make the wishes of the Groningen leader. Put the Groningers in front and come forward with deeds. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas damage has been spread throughout the province of Groningen;]] [[whereas only an independent assessment of such damage can provide relief;]] [[considers, therefore, that there cannot be a harm protocol applicable to a restricted area;]] [[calls on the Government to create a new damages protocol which does not introduce new contours and establishes counter-expertise, so that a new body of damage to be set up can assess the damage in full freedom and independence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Nijboer and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-410]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u332	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u333	Groningers in the stands, thank you for coming. I don't think we got what we wanted today. I don't think this is what you came here for. At least I want to press you all to the heart: hang in there and keep up your courage. We'll meet on Friday at the torch ride. Then we show again what we fight for, that we want safety first and that we want to matter again. Eventually, we're gonna have to win this thing. Get home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u334	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Yeşilgöz on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u335	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Although we differ here and there from time to time in this Chamber, I think we have clearly placed a shared message here: clarity for the Groningen people as soon as possible and a damage protocol as soon as possible. As the Minister says, the front door simply needs to be organized properly and quickly. Gas extraction must go down as quickly as possible in a responsible manner so that no one gets in the cold. We've jointly filed a broad-based motion. Mrs Van Tongeren has just read these. I myself have one motion on sealing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that system operators may temporarily seal gas connections on request to shut down a house from the gas;]] [[whereas system operators incur less costs in the case of sealing than in the case of removing a gas connection and therefore the cost to consumers is lower;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to ensure long-term closure of a gas connection at low cost for households willing to shut down their homes from gas, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u336	No, no, ma'am, you really shouldn't interfere. Mr. Nijboer, you want to ask another question? Then you'll have to walk to the interrupting microphone in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u337	That was because I needed to think about exactly what that motion was about. It's about sealing, but I was just talking to my colleague, Mr Moorlag, about what it's about. This is such a big debate. If you're talking about gas extraction in Groningen, damage handling and I don't know what already, is this for the VVD at the heart of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u338	I can imagine that we may not agree, but I have been standing here for quite some time to defend a whole story and, above all, to explain how we stand in it. We want to explain why it is so important for us to be clear as soon as possible. I have made a whole speech on why it is so important that gas extraction should go down as quickly as possible. I have quoted examples of how we can regulate this on a large scale, such as the amendment by my predecessor, Mr Bosman, to the FAT Act. I have also mentioned the example of all Dutch people who want to get rid of the gas and sympathize with the Groningers and who say: I want to be able to settle this voluntarily at low cost. I would like to illustrate with concrete examples how to move that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u339	You don't have to repeat it, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u340	Well, apparently it wasn't quite...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u341	That was the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u342	Apparently, it didn't land entirely. I've been talking for quite some time, so I thought I'd give you a summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u343	No. I am going to see Mrs Van Tongeren, but her question must be about the motion, because we are not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u344	Would you mind if I made a peer suggestion? Perhaps you could hold this motion until we have the debate on, among other things, my own initiative proposal and the Minister's proposal on gas and electricity connections. Because this doesn't save gas. It is only a question of consumer costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u345	I need to interrupt you for a moment, Mrs. Van Tongeren. People leave the public gallery, so it's a little noisy. We're just gonna wait for people to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u346	Have a nice trip back to Groningen. Thank you for being here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u347	Mr President, shall I address the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u348	Yes, please. You have heard Mrs Van Tongeren's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u349	I heard the question. Thanks for the suggestion. I'll wait for the Minister's answer and we'll take a closer look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u350	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder. It shall speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u351	Mr President, thank you. I'll read you a motion first. I shall then turn to a few points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the dwellings of our inhabitants in Groningen need to be strengthened, because they are no longer safe due to gas extraction;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of the district of Opwijde-Zuid in Appingedam would have been helped to make their homes more sustainable during the necessary reinforcement;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a pilot to provide homeowners with an offer, in addition to the reinforcement, to be able to get rid of the gas, supplemented by other sustainability options, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u352	I would like to thank colleagues for having been able to table a joint motion here today in order to make it even more clear how, according to the Chamber, it should proceed with Groningen. With this mission, I think the Minister will be able to take a more direct line. Thank you also to the Minister for his answers. Thanks also for continuing to try, tomorrow too, to involve civil society in the new harm protocol. I am glad that the arbitrators will stay as well and that the Minister is willing to look at financing arrangements as well. That's important when your house might qualify for demolition, when you actually want to stay in it and your house might be a figurative one for the village you live in. It is important that there should be rack and space and that you should not be forced to demolish at such a time. Mr. Chairman. I was wondering what would happen if there wasn't a new protocol in the short term. Then what's gonna happen? Of course, we will have another debate in a week or two. We will then ask the Minister very carefully about this, but it is still a little unsatisfactory for me that this could perhaps be extended for a very long time. What is so complicated as to really take the approach to the protocol from the region as a starting point, as we ask in our joint motion for a resolution? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u353	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u354	Mr. Chairman. Off the gas, gasless homes. I have even heard the Animal Party about banning gas connections. I have also heard the Minister constantly about sustainability. It is again that sustainability agenda that prevails here. And yes, that the gas extraction in Groningen has to be reduced, we all agree on that. There's no question about that. But that is a completely different discussion than that the Netherlands should be completely off the gas? What's to be done? Gas extraction has to be reduced, damages have to be compensated, but stop with all the ulterior motives. Instead, there is talk about a damages protocol, although our legal system does not require it at all. Especially for dealing with the smaller damages that is not necessary at all. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legal system does not require a protocol on damages;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, even in the absence of a damage protocol, the NAM does not evade its legal responsibility and reports of damage are dealt with,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u355	Then I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u356	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u357	I have just made it happen in the first term, but Mr Kops is now talking about all kinds of sustainable plans that would not be necessary. But Mr Kops also says: we are going to gain less gas in Groningen. My question to Mr Kops is: if we are going to do that, how are we going to heat all the homes in the Netherlands if we are not allowed to live up to these sustainable ambitions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u358	Well, of course that's a big deal, because in recent years the PVV, not only in this Chamber, but also in the province of Groningen, has made so many proposals to bring down the gas extraction and to come directly with alternatives. Stop exporting. Break open the export contracts. In 2014, my colleague Klever tabled a motion in this Chamber on this point, precisely on that point, because we need to be economical on the Groningen gas, and so that the gas extraction in Groningen can be reduced. And what does D66 do? Why don't you look it up? They're voting against it. So what do you want now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u359	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u360	But even if we stop exports et cetera, the PVV will still heat homes in the Netherlands with gas from the Groningen field. And if that's gone at some point, then the other alternative is to import gas from a wrong regime like Russia. That is not an alternative for all Dutch. The PVV closes its eyes to the sustainable energy transition that we need to use if we really want to get rid of Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u361	Mr Jetten is talking about Russian gas; it can also come from Canada, for example. But has Mr Jetten of D66 heard of the Nord Stream 1? That's a pipeline from Russia to Germany. It's right there. That's going through about 55 billion cubs a year. Now we are even negotiating a second pipeline, which also has to go through 55 billion cubic metres. Even the European Commission, of which Mr Jetten is such a fan, is interfering. So how are we supposed to become independent of gas? And why shouldn't we import from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u362	Mr Kops is very excited, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u363	Oh, yeah. You should do that sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u364	Well, you just saw me do that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u365	Not really, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u366	I thought it was a very fair question from Mr Jetten. Because you say that we should not do anything about renewable energy; that is all wrong, and that is all nonsense. You say we should spare the Groningers and stop drilling for gas. Then you say that we should actually drill for gas, but should not export it, and should mostly import it from Russia. In itself, it fits an A4's. That's a nice sustainability story from the PVV. Do you have any other suggestions as to how we could deal with this, in addition to importing from Russia and other sources of energy? A lot of options have come along from the PVV, and I hear such a great idea for the first time. What else is there from the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u367	Suddenly that's a big mouth of the VVD. It was so small in the first term. I would like to ask why you did not put that question directly in the first term. I only have half a minute to speak and now you come up with all these questions. Why now? Because the Groningers aren't in the stands anymore and no one hears you now? What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u368	Of course, I have not been in the Chamber very long. I have already been reminded of this, but I know that speaking time does not go on in the case of interruptions. So if Mr Kops just doesn't blame me for not doing that in the first round, I want to ask him now: what are all the other measures the PVV is proposing to bring down gas extraction and not invest in renewable energy? 'Cause maybe we're just missing a point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u369	Indeed: the gas extraction has to go down, we have to stop exporting, and there's nothing wrong with importing. What's wrong with this is that the entire province of Groningen is going to be crammed with windmills, so that the people are not only saddled with a house that is about to collapse, but also have a windmill in their backyard, which makes their home less and less worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u370	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u371	It's all really sad what happens then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u372	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u373	In Groningen, a knitting protest is organised. We're gonna knit for Groningen. And we're gonna plant flower bulbs. What the hell is that? That won't solve the earthquakes, will it? But that's all gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u374	Mr. Kops...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u375	What mockery measures! That was the answer to the interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u376	So I've heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u377	And here's the thing: the tilt meters. In February 2013, the then Minister of Economic Affairs already promised that tilt meters would be placed on a large scale in the province. The province of Groningen has also adopted a motion on this issue. But until now it does not happen: the tilt meters are still not there. This is partly because the deputy of the SP in Groningen does not carry out that motion. That's why I'm trying again here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the placing of tilt meters in the province of Groningen is an old commitment of the Minister for Economic Affairs;]] [[noting that the tilt meters have not yet been installed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that tilt meters are placed extensively in the province and that measurement dates become available to residents and other interested parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u378	If I may have ten more seconds, Mr. Chairman, please. If the outcome of this debate is that we have talked a great deal about sustainability, so a great deal of talk, if the Minister cannot say exactly when the protocol will come about and how it will come about, because secret negotiations are taking place, and if he cannot promise that all the damage will be resolved and when it will happen, he cannot come up with a deadline, then the outcome of this debate is basically zero. That's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u379	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You wouldn't say it if you heard the last speaker, but I think it would be very good if all parties in the House of Representatives would stand as one woman, one man behind the solution of the problems in Groningen. On this point, as a Chamber, we have taken a step forward with the broad-based motion which states that the damage protocol must be there quickly, that gas extraction must be reduced as quickly and as far as possible, and that people must be able to get proper legal advice and be able to be assisted. It is also different from previous debates, where some 40 or 50 motions were tabled. There are always differences between parties, but I think it's a good start to doing that. All this bickering in The Hague doesn't make the Groningers any better. I think we've done quite a bit of good with that today. I have one more point of substance and one more motion. The point of substance is about finance. I think the cabinet is making a bit of a mess of that. First, they make very strict budgetary rules. They then defend that very briefly in the Chamber, but they are not recommended to make any motions. Then we'll get back to you. Minister Wiebes says: we are going to reduce gas extraction, but we do not want to make more cuts. Minister Hoekstra says, "Well, I'm not going to deviate from it." Today, Minister Wiebes says again: we are really going to go to less than 20 billion. I'm very happy about that. But when it comes to the question of savings, for example on care, education or the police, he does not answer. It can't go on like this. You have a coalition agreement. You stand for that or you change it. Fine, send a letter of amendment to the Chamber. I welcome that. But I don't think Mr. Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, can always say "we're sticking to it and we're not going to cut it," while the other Minister says "we're going to do it." It can't be. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting on my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas due to the earthquake problem of Groningers, there is considerable uncertainty about the future;]] [[Whereas Groninger needs investment in the region to provide perspective;]] [[calls on the Government, together with Groningen, to draw up a plan for the future in which the Empire provides financial and substantive support, regardless of the amount of gas produced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u381	Finally, Mr President. Such a financial adder is also the link in the coalition agreement between the volume of gas extraction and the investments needed in Groningen. These investments are much greater than the 50 million earmarked. Those 50 million also hollow out with expenses for ggz, as we heard, and also hollow out with less gas extraction, that really shouldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u382	Thank you. I am now going to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. I am glad to see how quickly he has started working on the problems experienced by people in Groningen. I'd like to come back to mental welfare. In the coalition agreement, money has been made available for this. The Christian Union has also worked hard for this. The Christian Union believes it is important that this money should also be put in the right place and that people will notice something about it, because that is what it is all about in the end. The Minister has just promised that the money will be available in 2018. That's nice. Does he also want to contact the platform Church and Earthquake and also involve their expertise in the question of how the money ends up in the right places? I still had that question for the Minister. In the second term, we would also talk about the monumental heritage and the image-defining buildings. I shall now put forward this motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Government Agreement includes the continuation of the Heritage Window and the Heritage Advisory Team;]] [[noting that monumental churches, farms, notary houses and image-defining buildings are damaged by earthquakes;]] [[Whereas in practice many monumental buildings are threatened with demolition, because only financial value is considered and not monumental, cultural and social value;]] [[Whereas as a criterion for the structural strengthening of 100% reconstruction value and/or 150% economic value for buildings is taken as a limit in order to move to demolition and new construction;]] [[speaks of wanting to preserve image-defining buildings for Groningen;]] [[calls on the government to involve not only financial but above all cultural and social value in the restoration and strengthening of monumental heritage and image-defining buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u384	Mr. Chairman. I didn't get very happy about this debate. To be honest, I found the answer rather unsatisfactory. It sounded reasonable and full of good intentions, but also omfloerst with a lot of ifs and buts. The minister was more concrete in the media than he was here in the Chamber. This is gonna make me shiver, but okay. What I also find very unfortunate is that I have not received any answers to many questions. I asked you very clearly why you took out the counter-expertise. You didn't answer that. You also do not want to answer the question of the bottlenecks in the damage protocol that came from Groningen. I have here a copy of a motion adopted by 145 votes in April. Perhaps the messenger could pass this motion on to the minister. That motion calls for a phasing-out plan for gas extraction. I asked about the state of affairs, but I didn't hear another word about it. I would like to have an answer to that. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of a counter-expertise, or second opinion, has been removed from an earlier draft protocol;]] [[Whereas the possibility of a counter-expertise could give back some of the confidence to victims and civil society organisations such as the Groninger Soil Movement and the Groninger Gas Council;]] [[calls on the Government to include the possibility of counter-expertise in the new damages protocol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u385	Mr. Chairman. I imagine a lot of people sitting in the bleachers tonight or watching at home were thinking, "What good is this debate? It takes hours, it's technical and what will it get for Groningen tomorrow?" I understand that people are looking at such a debate, but still a few important things have happened tonight. This Chamber has shown its unity when it comes to, among other things, the rapid settlement of such a damages protocol and the generous compensation for the damage. We have seen this in the broadly signed motion proposed by Mrs Van Tongeren. We have also heard a minister who, in my opinion, has said a lot of important things about how he looks at this dossier. He may have been a little cautious at times, but I think that was also because we do not want to raise all kinds of expectations here tonight that will lead to new disappointments. The Minister has made it quite clear this evening that gas extraction is going down this cabinet period as much as possible and that we can expect a phasing-out plan from him this quarter. I would like to support him on this point on behalf of a number of groups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the demand for Groningen gas can be greatly reduced by accelerating the electrification of industry's largest gas consumers;]] [[Whereas several local authorities and housing corporations have large-scale plans for the construction of heat grids as an alternative to heating on Groningen gas;]] [[Calls on the Government to reduce the demand for Groningen gas to the maximum during this cabinet period by setting up a table with the industrial large consumers of low-caloric gas as soon as possible with the aim of switching industry to alternatives such as high-caloric gas, hybrid systems or electrification;]] [[calls on the Government to include the accelerated implementation of heat networks in residential areas in the development of the Energy and Climate Agreement and to examine the possibilities for a temporary incentive arrangement within the available climate resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-418]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u386	Finally. In addition to the important statements for accelerated reduction of gas extraction, I also share the Minister's view that there should be a one-stop shop with independent damage absorption and generous damages settlement without any interference from the NAM. That front and back door is an important step for the Minister. I fully support him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u387	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop, but he will refrain from doing so. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u388	In order to strengthen our criticism of the process and our solutions, I would like to table two motions. The first motion is called disclosure of secret NAM deal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Agreement of Cooperation between the Netherlands Petroleum Company (NAM) and Energy Management Netherlands (EBN) of 27 March 1963 forms the basis for the extraction of gas in Groningen;]] [[Whereas the Cooperation Agreement has been secret for 55 years;]] [[Whereas it is crucial to know exactly what was agreed in 1963 and who is responsible for the settlement of damages and to what extent, so that the problems can finally be tackled;]] [[calls on the Government to make public the Agreement of Cooperation between the NAM and EBN of 1963, the Agreement of Multi-Beneficiary Groningen Natural Gas of 1975 and the Additional Agreement of the Agreements of Schoonebeek, Rijswijk, Groningen, Tubbergen and Rossum-De Lutte of 1983,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-419]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u389	The second motion is the motion ultimatum 1 July 2018. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the handling of the earthquake damage in Groningen is now dragging on for far too long and stranded in far too long consultation structures and meeting circuits;]] [[Requires from the Government that all identified damage suffered by the victims of the Groningen earthquakes is credited to the victims' bank account by 1 July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-420]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u390	Then what do we do with damage that Groningers have on July 2nd?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u391	Then we propose a new ultimatum for the damage that ensues afterwards. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u392	That is exactly what has happened over the last five years: ultimatum after ultimatum after ultimatum. So your motion, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, will not solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u393	That is bullshit, of course, because these ultimatums are not so harsh that the money should actually be there. That's exactly the difference. I have seen a number of reports here and there saying that the Chamber is actually unanimous in calling for it to be done as soon as possible. I've heard a number of people say that. That is exactly the difference between, let us say, an effort obligation, which the Chamber likes to place with the Minister, and an obligation to achieve results, which Forum voor Democratie comes up with. That is precisely the difference in the way we conduct politics and the difference between our proposals and the proposals that have been made so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u394	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. A total of 15 motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u395	Let's move on. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u396	There were a few more questions. Mrs. Mulder has asked me, I think, for the familiar way to suggest me. She asked me: what happens if there is not a protocol in a reasonable period of time? I consider this an incentive. She knows the answer. We both know why I am not giving that answer: I really have to assume that I will get out with the region. If not, then her fine balance is at stake. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked me to contact the platform Church and Earthquake for spiritual care. I'll admit it. Her question on monumental heritage is raised in the debate on the motions for resolutions. Mrs Sazias' question on counter-expertise is also raised in the motions. With regard to the phasing-out plan for gas extraction, would I not have answered that? I have had it three times, even in three different debates. This gas extraction plan is not only about the long term, but also about the short term and comes in the first quarter. Mr Jetten wanted to know how the funds for social support and social cohesion would be paid out. That is what is being agreed with the region. Then there will be a plan for the stake: who will do what how? Then the budget can be made available. This can be done either through the Municipal Fund, or through the NCG, or through an organisation that we do not know yet, but which may be available for implementation in the future. I'm going to move on to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 406, requires some study from me. I can see the call in this very clearly. I assume that 'along the lines of the Groningen concept' means the outcome of the process that comes about after all the input. "appropriate access to (legal) advice and support" does not, I think, mean the 50 million-dollar snack. Can I seal the creation of an independent mining damage fund with a letter to the Chamber and take it as a measuring point? All these things are being worked hard. With that reading, I shall leave this motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u397	A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u398	As the Minister summarises, the motion is indeed intended. We are looking forward to the rapid development of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u399	Thank you. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u400	I look forward to that, too. There are not many topics that you can put so many harsh words on, but on which you agree. Boy, we're dying to get on with this. I don't want any less. The motion on equal treatment, with Mrs Van Tongeren as the first signatory, deals with the same rules elsewhere. I have already suggested holding this motion until I have clarity from the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u401	If the motion is not held, what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u402	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u403	The motion in part No. 407 by Mrs Van Tongeren c.s.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u404	Let me put it this way: if she were filed now, I would advise against her. Then it's up to Mrs. Van Tongeren to apprehend her. Is this how we can do it? We'll see what the advice's gonna be later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u405	Mr President, we are under five people, so before I hold the motion, I would first like to discuss it. However, I have heard the Minister correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u406	Good. You have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u407	The Wassenberg motion in part No. 408 is not addressed to me. I'm not gonna say anything else about it either. The motion in part No. 409 asks the government to take action within two weeks. It says "hand on the crane." That is not the situation as it is. The essayist needs to know it won't work in two weeks. We all want to go the same way, and yet I must advise against this motion. That's too bad. The motion in part No. 410 is about a new damage protocol in which no new contours are introduced. I do not want to anticipate my talks with the region. I'm looking at the region now. I don't want to put pressure on the region right now by means of a motion. I would therefore like to consider keeping Mrs Beckerman in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u408	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 409. Maybe the minister is too strict, because it doesn't say it has to go to 12 within two weeks or go to zero within two weeks. There must be measures within two weeks and then a plan has to be drawn up quickly to get to those 12. It does not say what needs to be achieved within these two weeks, just that steps must be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u409	"Asks the government to take measures to reduce gas extraction within two weeks." How am I supposed to do that? Should we close a factory or build a pipeline in two weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u410	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u411	We all want to go the same way, but if they become unrealistic texts, I give up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u412	Okay, clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u413	What the motion in part No. As far as 410 is concerned, I am not saying that we would not be able to get there, but again, I do not want to commit to that now. This is a specific development, and I have another discussion with the region on this. Here too, we may all want the same thing, but I must also advise against this motion. I'm sorry to hear that. The author also regrets it. The motion in part No. 411 is about the seal. I propose that we include this in the climate agreement and then consider it further. I must advise against the motion now, but if Mrs Yeşilgöz is prepared to hold her, we can see at a later date whether the motion is appropriate. Then we'll know more. Then it may not be a question of dissuade at all or we have an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u414	Then I'll hold the motion until... very soon, I hope, a new climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u415	At the request of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, I propose her motion (33529, No. 411) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u416	The motion in part No. 412 was actually taken from my heart. I might want a little bit of a trick there, too. We have to do a pilot with "off the gas" and I've already talked about it with so many parties. Up to and including the building lots one is ready to do this kind of thing. Yeah, I have to. Whether it should be this neighborhood is beyond my competence. I can't judge that. If we leave the neighborhood open, I'd like to leave the motion to the House's verdict. I can't guarantee it's this neighborhood. I'm not in charge of that. I'm not a builder. I'm not the NCG. We have to do this, yes, but can it stay open if it becomes this neighborhood? That's what I'm asking the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u417	Of course, my group prefers this district. Well, I guess I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u418	I secretly want that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u419	I understand that you want to keep that open, but I also assume that you are secretly trying a little bit and that you may be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u420	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u421	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u422	Then I will come to the Kops motion in part No. 413. It says "the NAM does not shirk its legal responsibility" and it says a few things about reported damages. Mr Kops is absolutely right: it is all possible. But then the NAM has to do it, and that's exactly what we don't want. This is exactly what the region does not want and should not want. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The movement-Kops in part No. 414 is about the tilt meters. At most, I am dealing with part of the system responsibility, but I am not dealing with the choice of instruments. It would be really weird if I chose which instruments the professionals should do their job with. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. That's not my role or my expertise. That's what happens when accidents happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u423	The motion on the tilt meters is an old commitment from 2013. The Minister has already agreed to this at the time. The province of Groningen has also indicated that it simply wants these tiltmeters. Does the Minister know why it has not been placed so many years later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u424	No, I don't. I don't know anything about that commitment either. I'll figure that out, but the advice will stand. Then the motion-Nijboer c.s. in piece No. 415. I do not know how to read this: 'calls on the government to draw up a future plan in which the Empire provides financial and substantive support, regardless of the amount of gas produced'. I can only read this if independence provides financial support, which is on the brink of collapse with the coalition agreement. Of course, we are always open if there are even more brilliant ideas than those of the coalition agreement, but that is not at all the issue right now. My starting point is really the coalition chord. This seems to distance itself from that. I must discourage the motion for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u425	In terms of finance, Mr Wiebes gave a very different interpretation of the coalition agreement on gas extraction. I also asked Mrs Mulder in an interrupting debate: shouldn't this link with the extraction of gas from investments in Groningen be withdrawn? Coalition partner the CDA indicated: that's right. That series is also in the coalition agreement. That 50 million is just there, but it's linked to the gas extraction. I'd love it if the minister would let go of that clutch. That would be the least of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u426	I can't just do that. I'll take the coalition chord as my starting point. Sometimes I come up with other things; that's true. I will then discuss this very carefully with the Chamber and the Cabinet, as I did in November and December with my interpretations of the coalition agreement in terms of volume.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u427	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u428	Then we have the motion-Dik-Faber/Nijboer in part no. 416 on monumental heritage. I think I should just take this motion as a signal. The question is whether the Chamber will accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u429	I'll look around and see if anyone has any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 416 by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Nijboer. No one has any objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u430	Also from the motion-Sazias c.s. in piece No. 417 comes up with a discussion point for the authors, a point where progress is made. Here too, I think I should discuss this with the region first. The county council is in the stands, but I'm not going to push them in a certain direction here. I cannot yet fully assess the substance of the request, so I must advise against it at this stage. In doing so, I shall keep all possible outcomes open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u431	While it is clear that this is at the specific request of the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u432	Well, then you shouldn't be so worried about that. The Jetten c.s. motion. in piece No. 418 I leave to the judgment of the Chamber. The Baudet motion in part No. 419 I advise. I explained that. The Baudet motion in part No. 420, I also advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u433	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u434	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament and the people who have been on the road for hours to attend the debate here, but also the people who have followed this debate in a different way via a live stream or at home via the Internet.
