ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u1	We will continue with the VAO Rail Organization with the same spokesmen. I should like to give the floor first to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate and even congratulated the Secretary of State for having managed to bring all parties together for the first time in this house. All those railers, you name it, everything was in agreement. Unfortunately, that was against the line of the Secretary of State. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cooperation between ProRail and the rail transport operators is finally going well;]] [[noting that the transformation of ProRail into a ZBO means that all ongoing rail contracts must be broken;]] [[Whereas the transformation of ProRail into a Zbo does not solve anything;]] [[calls on the government to reconsider the transformation of ProRail into a Zbo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-800]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. As far as rail regulations are concerned, we have two points which we are going to bring back briefly in a motion for a resolution. The first is the coordination on the decentralisation of the regional railway lines, and the other is of course also important: the acceptance and understanding of the financial consequences of the transition from ProRail to a Zbo. What's that gonna cost us all? We do not want to deal with the decentralisation of regional railway lines in the Chamber until there is proper coordination with the provinces concerned. The coalition agreement is clear and speaks on certain lines. So again, we also say to the Secretary of State, remove that hand brake and come up with proposals, again with those provinces. The second point is support. We have seen that the consultation produced sixteen responses. They weren't positive, even critical-negative. But important, and a big task for the Secretary of State, is to get those stakeholders along. Otherwise it will be very difficult to operate for ProRail 2.0. That's a certain task. Mr. Chairman. Then the cost aspect. We have a motion on that. A ZBO can have a significant financial impact on the provinces. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that local authorities will be affected by the transformation of ProRail by the modified VAT regime;]] [[Whereas the government has not formulated a solution to this as a prerequisite;]] [[Invites the Government to identify, as part of the financial section, the impact on ongoing or allocated rail projects and the cost increase for local authorities, if they are sponsors of ProRail after 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-801]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u6	That is true, and of course it has to do with the observation we made as a PVV that there is no basis for the transformation into a ZBO. I hear Mr Amhaouch from the CDA saying that there is a need to seek acceptance. Anyway, I just outlined what everyone is really against and not against. There are a lot of things on the table that I think are "yes." I don't know how Mr. Amhaouch sees it, but I don't know how the Secretary of State, except by reconsidering it, should get things back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr Van Aalst just complimented the Secretary of State on this. That was also about that support, but then the other way. We are also concerned about this support. Look, it's very simple. The consultation is now in place. We're at the beginning of that phase. It's gonna have to tilt in a minute. We will soon have to get our own stakeholders to talk about ProRail, NS and the other rail transport operators in this section. It is a task for everyone to shape that Zbo, so we share those concerns with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u8	May I conclude from this that if the concerns remain with these parties, the CDA is willing to reconsider this, because it might not have been the right choice after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u9	We have written this down in the coalition agreement, but we have not added that we will be very critical or the framework conditions properly fulfilled. We ask about the total financial picture. We want to know what it's going to cost in the end. As a political party, as a CDA, we have set conditions: it must not all land on the passenger rail ticket, but not on the freighters. It is important to add today: of course there must be support. You can't operate as a ZBO, I'll just call it ProRail 2.0 if there's no support. Let's go through those steps together critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I call Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a good discussion, we have only one motion to table. I'll read it to you here. The motion is also about rail safety. It could have been done with both VAOs, but it is more concerned with decentralisation. That's why we're doing it here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ILT report found that railway undertakings did not sufficiently guarantee train drivers' skills;]] [[Whereas it is currently being considered whether further sprinter lines can be decentralised;]] [[Whereas the guarantee of competence requirements for train drivers should be highly uniform and unambiguous at national level;]] [[Whereas, following the findings of the ILT, the sector has been invited to agree measures in the first quarter of 2019 to better ensure the professional requirements of drivers and conductors;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for legal guarantees of professional competence if railway undertakings show insufficient progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-802]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you. Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr President, thank you. We had a good debate. I think it is important that there is a comprehensive study of the practice of contracting and that working conditions and working conditions play a prominent role in this. I am pleased to see that the Secretary of State is taking this seriously and comprehensively. We do share the concerns about the Zbo ProRail, the lack of support and the risks identified by the sector itself. Then there is the question: what is the profit? So once again the question to the Secretary of State whether she can explain to us how it is going to generate acceptance and how it is going to deal with these risks. I have one motion on decentralisation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good fast connections between Dutch cities are of national importance;]] [[Whereas the need for rapid and frequent intercity connections has been expressed from several regions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that intercity connections do not suffer from this when considering the opportunities for contracting regional sprinter connections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-803]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you, Mr President. We had a good debate with the Secretary of State for which we thanked. We also handled the quickscan there. The quickscan was of course about the decentralisation of a number of lines. The Secretary of State has submitted a good analysis to the committee. The spokesmen were generally content with that. There's only one thing left for me. There was a bit of a wrong impression about the decentralisation of the two lines that were also mentioned in the quickscan and which seemed to be quite easy to realize for the time being. The argument there was that the elections would lead to concrete steps being taken at a later date. My group has some difficulty with this, quite apart from the fact that, of course, we are well aware that a careful decision must be taken, because the Chamber also has other wishes about the main rail network. A motion on this matter has just been tabled by the Christian Union and the VVD. There is therefore a sense of this, but in view of the fact that, in particular, elections still to be held, there should not be any delay in the way that such decentralisation could not begin until 2025, we still have a motion in place. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the lines Apeldoorn-Enschede, Zwolle-Groningen and Zwolle-Leeuwarden are specifically referred to as lines which can be decentralised; noting that the quickscan carried out supports the possibility of these decentralisations; calls on the Government to make the necessary preparations for the decision-making process on the main rail network in 2020, together with the provinces, in order to ensure that these lines are decentralised, so that they can then be implemented as soon as possible, taking into account the duration of the HRN concession and the relevant regional OB concessions, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been tabled by Mr Ziengs and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 804 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a very good debate. I very much welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that, as Mrs Kröger said, working conditions, market forces and their effects are included in the research that is to be carried out. In the debate, but also in previous debates, I expressed my concerns about the procurement, market forces and the decentralised procurement of a number of lines, which the government intends to examine in any case. Hence a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is investigating four railway lines to decentralise their procurement;]] [[noting that these lines are closer to the main rail network than previously decentralised railway lines and have a faster impact on the national timetable and complexity of the existing rail network;]] [[noting that the quickscan shows that the decentralised procurement of these lines involves significant costs;]] [[noting that no final statements can yet be made on the added value for the traveller to decentralise these lines;]] [[noting that several carriers on one track may lead to delays for passengers and rail freight;]] [[Whereas decentralised procurement of railway lines should not lead to delays and price increases for passengers and more freight by road;]] [[calls on the Government to look fully at the costs and benefits of the decentralised procurement of these lines and to place added value for passengers and rail freight transport at the heart of future decision-making on whether or not to award these lines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-805]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u18	Finally, many parties have expressed their concerns about the transformation of ProRail into Zbo. That's what my party belongs to, so that's why I hope the Secretary of State will take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u19	Mr Laçin points out that we must continue to do so if there is added value for the traveller. We understand that the passenger must always be at the centre of transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u20	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u21	But which parties could best assess whether the added value of the traveller is taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u22	Is Mr Amhaouch now asking me to list parties that could best judge that? The investigation will be carried out shortly. I'm just asking you to put the traveler at the centre. Which organizations are gonna run that, I'm not gonna decide. For that, I look at the Secretary of State with a slanted eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u23	No, you're not gonna decide. But you always steer in the direction that we can best judge from this house what is best for the traveller. Of course we will give a final judgment, but do you also agree that the regional directors, of all kinds of party-minded people, in the provinces, together with the Ministry, can best assess how to organise transport in the region for passengers and for freighters? Is there also an important responsibility for these provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u24	Absolutely. I think that the provinces, the municipalities, the ministry, NS, ProRail, should all talk to the regional carriers or at least be able to talk with them. The last thing I will argue here is that we all know best in Parliament. I won't say that, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u25	Look, that's how the CDA and the SP are getting closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u26	The world has become a little more beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u27	Thank you. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u28	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 800 by Mr Van Aalst ask me to reconsider the transformation into a Zbo. We discussed this extensively in the debate. I'm not prepared to do that. ProRail is a public organisation with a public task. So what does it really need an e.g. behind the name or a supervisory board for? I would like to be able to direct with you directly on those important public resources and that important public task. That's what the zbo-shape is important for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u30	The motion in part No. 800 will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u31	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the question raised by a number of other Members of your Chamber, in particular by Mr Amhaouch, but also, in my view, by Mr Laçin, on support. Of course, I think it is very important that we listen very carefully to all the concerns that all the parties have about the current cooperation, because that is what it is all about, in addition to specific concerns about the transformation, and that we really look with all the parties where it can be even better on the track. I hope you know me; I am always willing to really listen and see where the root of the problem lies. I am certainly prepared to do so throughout the whole process of this transformation. So I'd really like to go with all the parties to see how we can make this even better, where we can improve things. I will certainly work actively on the basis of support for the transformation, but also just for how we do things together in the Netherlands on the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u32	This looks a bit like the input from the CDA net. They said: we want support. That's what I hear the Secretary of State say. But if it turns out that there is simply no support for the transformation into Zbo, is the Secretary of State prepared to reconsider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u33	The transformation of ProRail into a zbo is because, from the role we have here, you as a parliament and I as a government, we consider it important to be able to steer the public funds properly. This is an independent interest, in addition to the importance of support. I think that's the self-interest that I need to take good care of. I need to make sure that I can properly justify to your Chamber where that 2 billion tax money is going and that I can properly steer how we secure the public interest of the rail system here. I think it is very important to be in very good consultation with everyone and to strive for that support, but I am not going to say: if there is too little support, I will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u34	That last sentence was actually what I asked for, because we already had the discussion about steering in the AA. We've said that with a Zbo it doesn't change. That steering doesn't change at all. We already have some direction. But if I understand the Secretary of State very well, the support of all parties is not decisive for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u35	I strive for as much support as possible, but you never have 100% support. That's why it's always a concept you can go anywhere. But you can be assured that I am absolutely committed to as much support as possible, that I will really listen to where the concerns are and that I will also try to find solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u36	However, I would like to point out that the support given by these sector parties does indeed affect the functioning of the rail system. So it's more than just: do we or do we not have support? It's about whether it's gonna work. With my question, I was hoping that the Secretary of State would make it clear to the Chamber how she is going to solve this problem, a problem created by the fact that the whole sector is actually saying unanimously that they do not like it. How is the Secretary of State going to mitigate the risk that has arisen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mrs Kröger is right in saying that it is very important that there is good cooperation between all parties and that there is support for this. That's absolutely true. That is why I will listen very actively to where the objections are and see how we can remove them. This was the phase of the consultation. In that we also asked all parties to put together everything they were still concerned about. That's what parties have done. That doesn't mean it's all insoluble. In fact, I think we can achieve a lot with each other in many ways. I'll work actively on that. We will, of course, at some point also indicate what we have done with the various reactions. So the Chamber will be able to follow that. Where there are concerns, we need to find solutions. I certainly see that as my task as part of this whole transformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u38	The motion in part No. 801.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u39	At first there was a question from Mr Amhaouch on decentralisation. I think it will be reflected in Mr Ziengs' motion. On the one hand, there is that agreement in the coalition agreement, for which we also had a quickscan run. That quickscan just shows, albeit with cross-compliance and some differences between one line and the other line, that these four lines are really interesting lines to consider when decentralisation. In fact, I hear from both of you that we need a timetable that is both careful and as soon as possible: careful, with the best interests of the traveller first, but also ensuring that there is no undue delay. I therefore consider these two aspects carefully and as soon as possible to be my task. In reply to Mr Ziengs' motion, I shall say a little more about this later. There's no question of a hand brake. Cooperation with the provinces is crucial; I would like to say this in particular in the direction of Mr Amhaouch. Then there's the motion in part No. 801 by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Ziengs, who asked me, as part of the financial paragraph, to identify the implications for the ongoing or allocated rail projects and the increase in costs for local authorities. I'd be happy to. The motion in part No. 801 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u40	The motion in part No. 801 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 802. We all think security is extremely important. Mr Schonis and Mr Laçin have said that the sector needs to get its affairs in order. I also believe that it is primarily up to the sector itself to put these matters in order. But they also asked me to look again at what could possibly be the possibilities at all. I am prepared to examine this in parallel, but we will, of course, wait and see what the sector itself does first. The ILT also maintains, but I'm judging Chamber. At least I'm prepared to do this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u42	The motion in part No. 802 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. In fact, 803 by Mrs Kröger asks not only to look at the regional aspect but also to really look at the rural aspect. Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Jetten have already tabled a motion on this subject which calls for the same thing. I therefore believe that this has already provided for what Mrs Kröger is asking here and that this motion is superfluous, but the importance of these long intercity lines has already been expressed by the Chamber. This is something I will take with your Chamber, of course, when we consider where we are going to decentralise and where we are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u44	That makes the motion in part no. 803...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u45	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u46	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motion on part No. 804, which is in fact exactly following on from this point of view, I would almost say that you have nicely coordinated it, and ask that the decision on decentralisation, although we are naturally going to prepare this in parallel with the provinces, really be taken in conjunction with a decision on the main rail network. We will make that decision in 2020. I think it is very sensible that Members should ask for this coherence, because this will sometimes call for a balance to be struck. For example, where do you opt for a fast connection to the North and where do you opt for more sprinters and more regional reinforcement? If the decision is taken in 2020, it would therefore be nice if we had a good map of what would be a good time to add it to those regional concessions. I am also reading Mr Ziengs's motion and Mr Amhaouch's motion that it should not necessarily last until the end of the main rail network concession. If we make a decision on a particular line, we will at least identify what would be a logical moment, otherwise you may have unnecessarily long different carriers in a particular concession. I'll map that out. In the decision-making process in 2020, we can also take into account what would be the right time for its impact. Here too, the consultation with the provinces is of course crucial; both gentlemen have also drawn attention to this. When does a province see a moment as a logical moment? The elections are not a reason for delay, but if you ask a driver to take over a concession, there will of course have to be support for the drivers who do so in the next period. But the preparation can begin. A decision will be taken in 2020 and the new College will allow us to see what the lines would be a good time for them to be effective. That doesn't necessarily have to be 2025. We can determine that in good consultation with each other. If there are financial consequences, we will also have to consider them in the balance with your Chamber. So with this explanation the motion gets in part no. 804 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u48	The motion in part No. 804 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u49	That's the Zieggens/Amhouch motion. Yes, that is indeed the motion in part No. 804.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u50	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u51	I have one small question. I understand that the Secretary of State is going through all sorts of trials in parallel. That seems logical to me, but I have a question in the context of care. We have seen in Limburg, for example, that it took four or five years of preparation to roll things out properly and a lot of mistakes have been made in Limburg. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State not to rush this and to do everything carefully. That's what we're gonna get out of after 2024, but I'd like to give this to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u52	I said carefully and quickly. That means that I understand your question, but I also understand Mr Ziengs's question and Mr Amhaouch's in order to start with everything we can already prepare in parallel. So you don't just start a process of thinking about lines in 2020. It's about profit for the traveler, because we're gonna do it when there's a profit for the traveler. Then you want to be able to book that profit as soon as possible. All due care must be taken in this respect. That's what we've discussed extensively. Therefore, I think "carefully and quickly" here should be the adadium. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 805. In fact, Mr Laçin asks that, when considering and deciding which lines you decentralise and which ones you do not decentralise, you look at the added value for passengers and the rail freight sector. He says 'central couples', but we say 'the traveller on one' and 'the transport of goods by rail'. That's exactly the way I look at it. If he is referring to 'rail freight transport' rather than 'rail freight transport', then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, otherwise it would seem as if it should take precedence over the traveller. If he wants to change it that way, it's actually how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr. Laçin, are you prepared to amend the motion in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u54	Yeah, I'll be sure to change that one. For us, it is simply important that there should be enough room for rail freight transport and that this should not get in the way. I'll change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u55	And then the motion gets to part no. 805 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u56	Judgment Room. The latter shows exactly why it is so important that we take a decision together in full by 2020. If the Chamber wants more freight and more regional transport as well as more international rail transport and more intercity's, that will require choices somewhere. It is important that we make those choices integrally with each other, but also that we ensure that we have prepared everything in such a way that we can quickly move on to our choices afterwards. That's how I'd like to do it with your room, Mr. Chairman. If it is correct, I have answered both the motions and the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u57	Yes. Thank you for your prompt response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-12.u58	I'll suspend for a few moments. Then we continue with the VAO Aliens' and asylum policy.
