ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VAO Article 100 Dutch participation in anti-ISIS coalition and situation in Syria. A very warm welcome to the three directors in trade union K. I call Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last month we debated the government's decision to return to the war in Iraq with some 100 soldiers. The SP doesn't support that for all kinds of reasons. Islamic State, which is a product of the illegal American raid in Iraq supported by the Netherlands in 2003, has been forced underground with the help of western military action, but is far from defeated and, with a focus on military means, cannot be defeated either. Terrorism cannot be bombed away, so history learns over and over again. Even the Dutch intelligence service had to observe that, despite seventeen years of war against terrorism, there is now no less but more terrorism. The war on terrorism, the war on terror, failed. It's that simple and sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	Will Mrs Karabulut acknowledge that the Dutch commitment with F-16's ISIS has been destroyed to a large extent and that the caliphate, which they once pretended to have founded, is now nothing? And does Mrs Karabulut not agree with me that this is a very good deed and that we should all welcome it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	The strategy of the war on terrorism, which has been going on for 17 years, which would bring us more security and defeat terrorism, has failed. What I acknowledge, whatever I have named and what I will continue to name, is that IS has indeed been defeated above ground, but certainly not underground and certainly not ideology at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr Koopmans, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u6	So Mrs Karabulut agrees with me that it is very good that ISIS, partly by the Dutch F-16s, has been defeated to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u7	ISIS is, unfortunately, a product of the illegal intervention in Iraq in 2003. This has not only led to the emergence of such a monstrous organisation as IS, but also to a great deal of suffering and civilian casualties. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that independent organisations regularly report many more civilian casualties as a result of air strikes against IS than the US-led coalition does;]] [[calls on the government within the coalition to promote an independent investigation into civilian casualties through coalition action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that independent organisations regularly report many more civilian casualties as a result of air strikes against IS than the US-led coalition does;]] [[Whereas uncertainty remains as to the involvement of coalition countries in attacks involving civilian casualties;]] [[whereas the involvement of Dutch F-16s in the fight against IS is terminated at the end of this year and it is expected that they will not be re-used;]] [[calls on the government to provide details of the deployment of F-16s over Iraq and Syria so that it can be verified whether Dutch air strikes have led to civilian casualties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-640]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-641]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the SP Group does not support this mission. Nevertheless, we wish the Dutch military who are deployed success and a preserved homecoming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I call Mr Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the fact that ISIS has been largely defeated, partly thanks to the use of Dutch F-16s, it is still a very worrying situation. The situation in Syria is horrible and then it is very important that the Netherlands make a contribution. We have been trying to defeat terrorism for a long time. This is important for the people in Syria, the victims there, but it is also important for the Netherlands and the safety of the Dutch. We are therefore extremely grateful for all the men and women who are committed to this mission. We're behind them. We think it is important that the home front also feels supported by this Chamber and we wish everyone every success and a preserved homecoming. We are also, of course, concerned about the reports of the American withdrawal from the war in Syria. What will that mean for the ISIS prisoners now being held by Kurdish troops? I would also like to express this concern here, but the main point I want to make is that it is a good thing that our men and women are working for the safety of the Netherlands and the Netherlands, even if they are threatened by terrorists in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs Karabulut has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u12	I have a question on that last point. Does Mr Koopmans, when he expresses those concerns, therefore share the view that our government should at least appeal to the Turks, Mr Ankara, that they are not moving into Northern Syria, as announced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u13	I am with Mrs Karabulut and many here concerned about further deterioration of the situation in Syria. If the Turkish Government takes action that worsens that situation, we are certainly very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u14	So, apart from that concern, Mr Koopmans calls with me on the government to tell the Turks to stay out of Syria so that what is built up in Northern Syria by the Kurds is preserved, there remains some stability and they can build their country further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u15	In my view, the Minister has been very clear about the situation in Syria and the Turkish interference in it. I support the Minister in what he has said about this. So I think it would be good to hear his response to the questions that have already been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you to Mr Koopmans. I call Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr President. In general terms, I have already supported, on behalf of my group, the extension of this mission, which is the subject of the Article 100 letter. I would like to repeat what I said at the time, namely that I have great respect for the people who are being sent, that I naturally wish them a safe return home and that I wish anyone who is left behind to see the safe return of their loved ones again. I don't have any motions. I have, however, signed two motions by Mrs Karabulut concerning transparency and clarity on the consequences of the Dutch F-16s' deployment for civilian victims. It seems very important to me that this should be clarified and clarified. It's a common argument: "We're still there, we're still flying there, so we can't be too open about that." As of next week, that argument will no longer apply, at least I would expect it to be, so clarity is also important. I will also be happy to sign a motion that Mrs Ploumen will be tabling, but she will be discussing it shortly. Actually, I do have a question of my own. Mr Koopmans has already spoken about it, and perhaps the Foreign Minister will be able to say something about it later. What does this American announcement by tweet mean that ISIS has been defeated and that America is therefore going to withdraw the troops? That also seems to lead to some discussion within the US government. But what does that mean? However, we can see that Erdogan's position may have been strengthened, as well as Assad's, and that the position of the Kurds is weakened. It could be that, among other things, the consequences of this decision. I would very much like to hear from the Cabinet a first appreciation of what this decision of the US President means for the mission, for which we have expressed our support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you. I call Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group has already expressed its support for the extension of the mission. Much respect for the military involved in the former fight against ISIS, but also the remnants of ISIS. We wish the military good luck and a safe return. Mr. Chairman. I agree with those colleagues who have previously expressed great concern about the withdrawal of the Americans, because that is the news that came to us yesterday. That is what we are very concerned about. I ask the Cabinet to respond to the withdrawal of the Americans. Is the cabinet prepared to do everything possible within NATO and otherwise within the EU to prevent the Turks from carrying out further attacks on the Kurds; the Kurds who were such an effective ally in the fight against ISIS? I would very much appreciate it if the Foreign Minister included this in the first IAB to see if we could exert pressure on Turkey, together with the EU, to prevent these attacks. Mr. Chairman. The Americans' troops, 2,000, are pulling away. What consequences does that have for us, for the Netherlands, for NATO? Is that going to be discussed within NATO? Are other, possibly EU countries going to fill that gap? We know that if that is not filled, the last pockets of ISIS will undoubtedly seize their chances again. Then we still get a total destabilisation of Syria. And if it is not ISIS, then it is possible that Assad wants to seize his chance to take Northern Syria, where they are now in the process of restoring democracy there. I'd like a response to those points. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you. I call Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group has already expressed its support for this mission and, of course, wishes the men and women who will participate in this mission all the success and strength and a preserved homecoming. Mr. Chairman. The fight against ISIS is an incredibly important battle in which the Netherlands played a major role and in which also very positive and important results have been achieved for the region. ISIS has been reduced to less than 1% of the largest geographical area they possessed. Many displaced people have been able to return and a great deal of violence has been prevented. But we're not there yet. In 2010, the fight against ISIS.......................................................................................................................... Then the group had 700 men left. 34 of the 42 leaders of that group were then killed by the Americans in 90 days and victory was crowded. But the leader of that group, Al-Baghdadi, then managed to control half of Syria and a third of Iraq years later. When I see that victory is being called again by the American President, I worry. Of course, only 1% geographically held, but the Inspector General of the Pentagon says that there are 20,000 to 30,000 men still out there. That is supported by the UN. That's when we counted our empire. Let's not count ourselves rich now, I'd like to say. I agree with those colleagues who have asked questions about what this means now, whether the Americans will indeed stop fighting against ISIS, but above all what this means for our cooperation with the SDF, for the opportunities that ISIS has to regain its strength and its territory and, of course, for the position of Assad. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mrs Karabulut has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u23	On that last point, of course, it is very important that a very strong signal is now sent to Turkey, namely that they should stay out of Syria and that they should refrain from expressing their aggression towards the Kurds in Northern Syria. Does Mr Sjoerdsma support this and condemns such an intention on the part of the Turks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u24	I have said from the very beginning, and actually from the very first Article 100 letter, that one of the main concerns I had about this mission and the strategy against ISIS was that we do not agree within NATO on who our allies are in this fight and who our enemies are. What I was referring to then, and what I am talking about now, is that for Turkey, the fight against ISIS is priority number nine and the fight against the PKK and the Kurds and all the sub-category Kurds you can call, perhaps number one, together with Assad. That brings with it serious problems. I've been ready to do that in the past and I'll be ready to do that again today. Any military action taken by Turkey, which is not in the interests of the defence of its own territory or of its own people, but only has the side effect of undermining the fight against ISIS, I condemn and reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u25	That's good to hear. It is true that Turkey, but certainly other allies, have supported jihadists from the outset. And now apparently a deal has been made between Trump and Erdogan on the sale of rocket weapons. My second question is whether Mr Sjoerdsma can support our proposal, our motion for transparent access to the data of the Dutch bombings in Iraq and Syria, so that it can be checked whether has been contributed to civilian casualties, for, ultimately, truth finding and for justice for the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u26	I'll take a very good look at that. I'm gonna take a swing at the arm. Let me say two things about it. In general terms, I think it is very important that the Netherlands and the coalitions in which the Netherlands participate in the military field show great transparency about what we achieve on the positive side, but do not dive away if... I do not want to use the word 'injury', because I think that a euphemistic word that does not cover the cargo at all, but if civilian casualties are caused by our actions, if houses of the civilian population are hit, then we must also be transparent about it. The only thing that Mrs Karabulut and I disagree on, and I would also like to highlight, is that the Netherlands is exceptionally transparent. Each attack by the F-16s in Jordan, Mrs Ploumen knows that too, even though she shakes no, is not only checked at the headquarters from which they fly, but also presented to the Arnhem State Attorney's Office. That's unique, but it shouldn't be unique. It's extremely strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u27	We are going to leave it at that, Mrs Karabulut. I call Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday there were reports of abuses, misconduct among themselves, of military personnel on the mission in Chad. This shows once again that we must first put our own defence personnel and our own policies in order. But there's a missionary urge from the cabinet. At the moment when the Americans call, or other large countries, the cabinet goes on a mission very quickly, anywhere. It does not meet the criteria that DENK has set for participating in a mission. My group does not support groups that violate human rights by force. We are not yet reassured by the Minister's answers to the question whether the Netherlands supports a group of rebels in their fight against a sovereign state. We are also concerned about the lack of transparency and information. We are concerned that the Netherlands does not have an independent information position. Therefore, DENK will not support the extension of the mission in Iraq. If the mission is to be extended, my group wishes the military who participate in the mission a safe return. Mr. Chairman. I've got 45 seconds, I see, and a small motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to extend the Dutch participation in the anti-ISIS coalition in Iraq;]] [[Whereas questioning borders leads to tensions and conflicts;]] [[expresses respect for the sovereignty of Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-642]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u29	The sovereignty of states must indeed be respected, as must the peoples of countries. In this case, Turkey intends to make another illegal invasion of Northern Syria. Does the group of DENK also condemn this possible action?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u30	We are now talking about the article 100 letter from the cabinet. We must make a very important assessment of whether our soldiers can go to Iraq. I know that Mrs Karabulut has a Turkish hobby, which raises questions about everything that happens around Turkey. I think those questions have just been asked. The chairman has given quite a lot of room in a VAO for something that is not currently playing. I think that's enough for today, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u31	I remember you talking about Chad yourself. That's far beyond too...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u32	No, no, no, no, no. Not far outside...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u33	...the order of this debate, but I will not go in with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u35	Oh, I'm sorry about this, already! I shouldn't have said that. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u36	No, you started it. I have a right to answer that. I said that one of the criteria for DENK not to do missions is that we must put our house in order first. The moment you read in the newspaper that there are abuses and misconduct in the military, I think it is important to raise this issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u37	Okay. Excuse me. Mrs Karabulut had a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u38	You could, I think, speak of hobbyism when you look away from human rights violations and/or violations of international law by Turkey. I think that Mr Öztürk should rather show himself a mirror in this respect, but I repeat my question because this is about the fight against IS and the sovereignty of peoples. In northern Syria, Kurds together with Christians and Arabs have been fighting that battle for years. They've made sacrifices and lost a lot of people. And now Turkey wants to commit an illegal act. Then it is not so complicated to be consistent and also condemn these violations of international law and human rights. That's all I'm asking. That has everything to do with the situation in the Middle East, but Mr Öztürk knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u39	If Mrs. Karabulut asks for it, she gets it. That's my way of communicating with Mrs. Karabulut. Look, Mrs. Karabulut, you're talking about human rights violations, aren't you? And you've been in the Chamber quite a long time. All this time that a terrorist organisation such as PKK is doing human rights violations in those areas, in Syria, Turkey and Iraq, I have never heard you talk. You silenced your own group when it comes to PKK terrorism. You will receive criticism from SP members throughout the country that you must stop supporting the PKK and bash Turkey every time. There are council members who want to quit, there are SPs who have cancelled their membership and you are still here to defend a terrorist organization like PKK and bash a NATO alliance member every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mrs. Karabulut, we're actually doing interruptions in half. Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u41	This is all disinformation, aside from the truth. The SP strives for peaceful solutions everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u42	I wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Öztürk, you must let Mrs. Karabulut finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u44	We reject the use of violence. However, the DENK Group, which rightly criticises military abuses, rightly says that the sovereignty of states must be respected, and rightly says that it attaches great importance to international law, which apparently does not apply to Turkey at the moment, because it is blind to Erdogan and his illegal policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u46	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u47	That is a pity, and I think that makes your story very unbelievable on all aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr Öztürk, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u49	We have a NATO alliance, which we also have an opinion on. But we also have an opinion on terrorist organisations such as the PKK. The SP defends the terrorist organisation PKK thanks to you. You are the one who puts the SP Group and the SP'ers in an evil light by always defending a terrorist organisation like the PKK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u50	We're not gonna go through with this. We're in a VAO on a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u51	I just want to take the compliments that I have so much power over my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u52	When it comes to the PKK, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u53	It is true that we have unity as regards peaceful solutions to very complex issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr Koopmans has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u55	My question concerns Mr Öztürk's motion, because I do not quite understand it. He says: "confirming that the cabinet wants to extend the Dutch participation in the coalition." Then he says: 'whereas questioning borders leads to tensions and conflicts' and 'that is the point 'that Iraq's sovereignty is respected'. Yes, of course we will respect the sovereignty of Iraq. But in between, he says, "the questioning of borders leads to tensions and conflicts." What does that phrase mean there? The extension of the mission is not at odds with respect for Iraq's sovereignty, is it? So what point does Mr Öztürk make about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u56	With the extension of the mission, we're also going to train rebels. You see now that Trump withdraws, and when America leaves, the Netherlands usually goes away. When the Netherlands withdraws, these rebels there will not respect the sovereignty of Iraq and will go there for their own pieces of land. So we want to say: beware; if you support rebels now, there can be an organisation like IS that wants a piece of that country at the moment the Netherlands is gone. That is why we would like to warn the cabinet now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u57	Clearly, what Mr Öztürk is saying is wrong. I'd like him to confirm that again. The Dutch mission is to fight terrorism. That mission is part of the invitation of the sovereign state of Iraq. When he adds a phrase that has nothing to do with it, namely "the questioning of borders leads to tensions and conflicts," he adds something... He could have said, "I think the sun should come up" or something. It's just that sentence he inserts that makes it irrelevant. He's suggesting things here that he can't live up to. Is he now saying that the Netherlands is questioning Iraq's sovereignty by responding to a request from the sovereign state of Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u58	I just explained it perfectly. I would like to say once again that the Netherlands has worked with terrorist organisations. That has now been proved thanks to Nieuwsuur and Trouw. Nikolaos van Dam, I called him Saint Nicholas, who gave the rebels military goods there. And I think more information will come out in the coming years. You just see that there is cooperation with terrorist organisations to achieve a goal. For these reasons, we say, these rebels may be able to do something to challenge Iraq's sovereignty when we leave with Dutch resources and training. That's the message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u59	Maybe we shouldn't make things too complicated. This motion asks us to respect the sovereignty of Iraq. I think we're all doing that here. But the question is actually very simple. Is Mr Öztürk aware that the mission we are now discussing is to take place on request, on invitation, of the State whose sovereignty he wishes to respect? Is he familiar with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u60	The same state is now dependent on the Western countries, especially large countries. The Netherlands also participates, with an ex-minister who has been sent away from this Chamber. This state, which is now in charge, so to speak, is now making decisions together with the Western countries. My point is: what is going to happen when the Western countries are gone? What are the rebels going to do with the military equipment and the training they've been given? Is there gonna be another I.S.? Is there going to be another PKK state? Is there gonna be anything else? That's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u61	I understand now. It is true that Mr Öztürk, who is asking us to recognise the sovereignty of the State of Iraq, himself does not recognise the sovereignty of the State of Iraq at the moment. That is clear from his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u62	That's bullshit; that's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u63	Does Mr Sjoerdsma have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u64	No, I'm with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would suggest that we await the Minister's assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u66	I find the position of DENK quite remarkable now. The sovereign state of Iraq is asking the Netherlands: will you please help us to assert our sovereignty? The Netherlands responds to that call. DENK says: we do not support that; we are not going to help you assert sovereignty, but we are calling on the Minister to respect Iraq's sovereignty. What is it now? Will you now help Iraq to assert sovereignty or drop it and do you not support the mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u67	Look, at one point, I agree with Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u68	But I asked a question now, Madam President. I asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u69	That's right. The answer is addressed to Mr Van Helvert, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u70	I'll give my answer my way. I say, on one point, I agree with Mrs Karabulut. She has explained very well and well why we are now in trouble in Iraq. There has been a raid by the Western countries, with America first. The Netherlands took part in this. Eventually hundreds of thousands of people died and we still haven't solved the terrorist problem there. The investigation of Nieuwsuur and Trouw shows that the way in which we now work with terrorist organisations can bring us back into trouble. This is actually a warning to the cabinet: do not cooperate with those terrorist organisations. Don't send Nicolaas van Dam back there with goods that support terrorist organizations. Try to see how we can keep Iraq sovereign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr Van Helvert, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u72	You say 'try to see how we can keep Iraq sovereign'. That is precisely the question of the Iraqi government: help us, the Netherlands. The Iraqi government is asking: help us maintain sovereignty. But that doesn't support DENK. DENK says we're dropping the Iraqis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u73	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u74	Apparently, DENK doesn't agree with what happened 17 years ago. That's okay, but DENK's dropping the Iraqis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u75	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u76	But in order to keep up appearances, you are tabling a motion to recognise sovereignty. Isn't that what's conflicting with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u77	This point has now been discussed in detail. You can respond briefly and I would like to continue with Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u78	Madam President, since Mr Van Helvert does not want to understand, it is very difficult to explain. I think I've explained it several times. Listen to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u79	A point of order. The name of Mr Koos van Dam, a very renowned former Dutch special envoy, was just mentioned. Mr Öztürk associated him with the support of terrorists. That is inappropriate, not only because that is, of course, completely incorrect, but also because Mr Van Dam is not here and cannot defend himself. I ask Mr Öztürk to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u80	There are several people who are not here and about which statements are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u82	Also by the group of the VVD. And we at Nieuwsuur and Trouw saw exactly what happened. I think I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u83	Did that bring you to the end of your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The PvdA Group also expressed its support for this mission earlier. We wish all men and women a safe return home. We also wish their loved ones and family strength in the period of absence. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of short, I agree with what Mr Van Ojik asked the cabinet about the position of the Americans, who this morning or yesterday tweeted said that they were withdrawing from Syria, because IS would have been defeated. Please comment: what is the appreciation of the cabinet and what does this mean for the Dutch role? I have a motion on the position of children of extravagants. During the general consultations, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Ojik spoke about this. I would like to put that to the cabinet in the form of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Dutch people who have travelled to Syria to fight for ISIS are themselves fully responsible for the situation they are now in;]] [[Whereas the children of extravagants have been the victims of their parents' reprehensible choice and are therefore living in insecurity, bad conditions and great fear;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with organisations active locally, such as the Red Cross, to work to guide Dutch children to a Dutch consulate and then back to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-643]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA has already indicated its support for the extension of the mission. I value the fact that we are here in plenary to give real compliments to our women and men for what they have achieved so far in the mission. The discussion in the VAO is being used by some parties to say whether they are for or against the whole war on terrorism. Of course we can, because that is why we are in a parliament. But in extending a mission, I think that we really must say that what the Dutch military have been doing has worked very well. In a very short time they have defeated ISIS military for the most part. That was the purpose of the mission. In a very short time they have removed the propaganda of ISIS. You don't see ISIS videos every day in a hundred languages on social media. The foreign fighters we see for a very large part. That was also a purpose of the mission. That's just what our people did super well. Whether you agree with the war on terror or not, that's what our people have done well. I think we should put that clearly here in Parliament. We should be proud of that. And for that we can give compliments to them, as well as to the families who have missed their children, fathers and mothers. Mr. Chairman. So we certainly support that extension, but we also have great concerns about what we heard today or read through a tweet of Trump. The question has already been asked by others, a question I really want to support: what are the consequences for what the Netherlands should do there? Is it even true what we were able to read on Twitter? And what are the consequences for the Kurds in Syria? I would like to ask the Minister specifically: how can we ensure that there is maximum pressure on our NATO ally Turkey, on our friend Turkey, as I have heard the Minister say, not to further invade the north-east of Syria? How are we gonna do that? How are you going to put that bilaterally and multilaterally on the agenda? I say it this way, and perhaps that is unusual: if the Minister feels strengthened by a motion from the Chamber to put that pressure bilaterally and multilaterally, then I will make an order proposal to table a fine motion in a third term, which has been agreed and with which the Minister can go out. But if you can do it without a motion, I have every confidence that you will. But I would like the Minister to somewhat elaborate on how he is going to put that pressure on Turkey. If we don't, the next winter will be a very heavy Christmas for the Kurds and all the people who live in Syria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you. The directors have indicated that they can proceed immediately with the reply. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bijleveld will answer the motions on the possible civilian casualties. I had the impression that there were no immediate questions for Mr Kaag. I have been asked a number of questions and a number of motions have been tabled in my area. In fact, everyone asked me for an appreciation of the message that the United States is about to end its military presence in Syria. We have only recently received this message. It's also very concise. It may be very far-reaching. I also understand very well the questions that have been asked about it. A rapid withdrawal from an area that comes from a war situation can lead to a massive shift in power relations. It may also lead to a renewed outbreak of violence. It is just too early at the moment to be able to say more than this. We do not have any information as to at what rate and how that withdrawal will take place. Well, we'll keep a close eye on this. For the operations in Syria, we are talking about such a short remaining period that it is very likely to have no consequences for that. Our troops, the air force that operates from Jordan, are only recently present there. Whether it will affect the situation in Iraq, including the subject of the Article 100 letter, is really not yet to be estimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u90	I understand that the Minister is not yet fully aware of the situation and the concrete steps that will be taken from the United States and does not know the consequences. He can inform us as soon as possible. I'd like to get that commitment. What the Minister can do is to announce the Turks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u91	That's my next topic. That is for me, because that question has been asked a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u92	The Turks have announced that they want to invade Northern Syria again, as with the illegal action earlier this year. Of course, the Minister can already condemn that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's what the Minister's gonna come up with. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u94	Before the Minister comes to Turkey, I have a question about what he has said so far. It's kind of staggering, isn't it? We are part of an international coalition, in which the United States is in charge; or had. The minister says he read the tweet, too. I don't blame this minister, but it's staggering that the leader of the coalition lets us know by tweet that they're quitting in Syria? They're just quitting Syria! I would like to ask the Minister if he is going to let the Americans know that this is no way to do within an ally coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u95	It is not that we have only been informed by tweet. It is true that we have been briefed at official level and only very recently. I didn't say for nothing that it might be a very far-reaching decision. We will be in close contact with the US, but also with the other countries that are active there, because we are operating in a broad alliance, looking at how the announced plans are now being implemented and what that means for the coalition commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u96	Perhaps for further clarification. The Minister says that he has not only been informed by tweet, but he has been brief. Maybe he can share a little more with the Chamber how and when the Dutch cabinet has been informed by the US President of its apparent intention to leave Syria within 20, 30 or 40 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u97	We were officially informed yesterday with the very brief communication that this communication would be coming. Mrs Karabulut asked me to take you in as soon as there was more information. Of course, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr Van Helvert or Mr Sjoerdsma? Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u99	If there is more information, I would like to receive it, but I would like to put it a little bit smarter. In fact, I think we should get a letter from the ministers in the short term, which clearly states what exactly was shared in Trump's information and what the first steps our cabinet is going to take. Because we can't keep waiting for Trump to send us another tweet. What is our course after this decision by Trump?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u100	I think it would be good to inform the Chamber as soon as we have substantial additional information. It will be clear that, together with the other allies, we are fully committed to this and that I will inform the Chamber about it as soon as that insight is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u101	With these kinds of coalitions and with these kinds of big assignments we set ourselves, usually goes out together, together at home. You're gonna start a job and you're gonna finish that job together. That is also what we have been doing in Afghanistan for more than ten years. That concerns me in two ways. Those are the two questions I would like to put to this Minister. One. The announcement of withdrawal will usually lead to violence against the remaining troops. I will certainly put this question to the Minister of Defence. Does that mean more risk to the Dutch military still in the area? That's question one. Then there is the second question. Of course, we are not only engaged in a battle with ISIS, but we are also engaged in other battles with the Americans. Have we ensured that we cannot expect the same kind of action from the Americans? Do we know that next week the American president won't be tweeting the world about Afghanistan, for example? Let me give you an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u102	I understand the concerns expressed by Mr Sjoerdsma and other Members of Parliament. I indicated in my initial reaction that we do not know at this time at what rate and in what form that withdrawal will take place, but that this is very relevant. We are therefore in close contact with the United States and its coalition partners, in particular in order to assess that very important aspect of the consequences for the safety of our own people. Once again, the Chamber will be informed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u103	I'd like that. I think it would be a good idea to include the other missions we are working on together with the Americans. It also seems to me to be a good thing, and I hope that, as the Minister of Defence, he will take that up so directly. It is not clear how that withdrawal will be completed. When that happens, it's not clear. And we're just gonna have to wait and see if it's gonna happen. Apart from the fact that it is a great victory for ISIS unfortunately, the fact that it has been announced does mean something for our soldiers present in that area. Maybe the Secretary of Defense can go into that right away. I'm very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u104	I think the Minister will deal with this later, as far as possible. Then there's the further answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u105	Most MPs have asked questions about the possible further Turkish activities in eastern Syria and the Dutch response to them. This response has also come from the High Representative of the European Union, Mrs Mogherini, on behalf of the Netherlands and partly on the initiative of the Netherlands, who expressed her concern about the Turkish announcement of a possible offensive in Northern Syria last weekend. The idea of setting this up in the RBZ seems logical to me, so I will also raise this with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u106	That's good. According to reports, this has been agreed between Trump and Erdogan, namely that he would have the space to invade the areas where the Americans are now invading without harming the American soldiers. Is the Minister prepared to contact Ankara himself to say that this action is absolutely condemned? Everyone is beating themselves up here, but in the end it was the Kurds who fought against IS on the ground for years. The world cannot abandon them in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u107	In my previous talks with my Turkish colleague, who is now taking place again, I mentioned that Turkey's action in Syria does not deserve our support. As soon as I speak to him again, I will raise that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u108	The Minister says as soon as I speak to him again. But I'd like the Minister to do that proactively now. The Turkish media are full of it, in all his speeches he calls it, he threatens with it and agreements have been reached. So it's kind of urgent. I would like to see a proactive attitude of this minister, so is he willing to contact his colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u109	That proactive attitude is over. There has been even more than the Dutch declaration, namely an EU declaration. In foreign policy, it is well known that it is much more effective to send out a clear signal at EU level than when each of the 27 countries issues its own declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr Voordewind, also on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u111	Yes, on this point, Mr. Chairman. I also read Mrs Mogherini's statement. She is indeed expressing her concerns. But what is the Minister going to say to the Board when he speaks to his colleagues? Speaking concerns is nice, but I do not know if Turkey is very impressed by that. Does the Minister not consider stronger words to condemn Turkey's announcements of attacks on Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u112	I think it is a good thing that we should come back to this when we deal with the RBZ Council, because between now and the RBZ Council developments are likely to take place, so I would like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u113	Then I would also like to hear, perhaps in the annotated agenda, what is the position of, for example, the French, the English or the Italians when it comes to the hole that will fall through the Americans. Do the French and Germans, for example, also intend to leave Eastern Syria? Does the Minister know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u114	The French have just announced that they will remain active. I have already indicated that, as soon as more information is available, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u115	And you come here if it's okay to talk to each other in the first week after the recess, on January 16th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u116	That's very nice, by the way. I would like to ask the Minister what this proactive attitude is. Either the Minister should say: for diplomatic reasons, I cannot say any more about it now. That is possible; all the understanding for that. Or we'll have to see a slightly stronger attitude from the Minister. There's so many things happening. NATO ally Turkey does something and makes a deal with another NATO ally, the United States, about how they're going to hand over the territories to each other when the United States moves away. Turkey says it wants to invade the northeast of Syria. The Kurds will be on their own. If the Netherlands can only say 'I will bring it up for a moment', that is too little. Then we can say that there has been an EU declaration, but it is already before the news. The situation has become much brighter now that Trump has said so and there will also be a threat from Turkey to the northeast of Syria. Is that diplomatic talk? If that is the case, then I can understand it, but say it. Or can we expect a more active attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr Van Helvert is now linking a number of things which are related but which are not contained in one statement. The pro-active attitude towards the Turkish announcement has been over. While we are talking about it here, there is already a clear EU declaration, including on the Dutch initiative. More proactive than before the debate, I cannot make it for you. Since then, there has been a new development, which Mr Van Helvert is also talking about. I have been very clear about that, too. We have been briefly informed about it and we are now in contact with the allies and the United States to see what the potentially very far-reaching consequences may be. Before I get that information, I can't inform the Chamber about it, but the Chamber gets that information. Then I come to Mr Öztürk's motion, which, as was also mentioned in the debate on the interruption, is very confusing. Mr Öztürk does not want to provide the support requested by the sovereign Iraqi authorities; Mr Öztürk is against this. Then he will table a motion on how this should be done, but on the basis of the false assumption that we are not supporting a sovereign government there, but rebels. That's so confusing that I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u118	The motion in part No. 642 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u119	Then I come to the motion by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik on the position of children of parents who have fought with ISIS. The motion calls on the government, in cooperation with organisations that are active locally, such as the Red Cross, to make an effort to accompany Dutch children to a Dutch consulate and then back to the Netherlands. The area where people are trapped is still a very dangerous area. As the honourable Member of Justice and Security and I have pointed out in recent months, we do not think it right to endanger people, whether they are Dutch diplomats or employees of organisations on which the motion refers by actively asking them to act in dangerous areas for this purpose. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u120	I would like to point out to the Minister that I have referred with emphasis to organisations that are already active and present locally, i.e. on the ground. Would that change his judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u121	No, because the Dutch government is being asked to invite people to dangerous operations in a dangerous area. That is a step we do not want to take now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u122	Not now, the Minister says. When would that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u123	Not now. You are now requesting this in this motion. I have no reason to believe that all of a sudden that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u124	The motion in part No. 643 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u125	These local organizations are there. The Red Cross is called. They're capable of doing this. What's the obstacle for the Minister to dissuade this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u126	The Chamber is asking me to call on people to be active in dangerous areas. If people go to dangerous areas on their own, we can judge them. We have also made this very clear to people in the Netherlands who are considering going to ISIS area. We have advised against this in every possible way and we have tried to counter it. When people do that, that is ultimately their own consideration, but the question in the motion is whether the government wants to actively promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr Voordewind, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u128	Very briefly. But there's services going that way. There are services that the Dutch children have visited there. It is now Kurdish territory. There's no more battle with ISIS there. So where does the Minister keep repeating that they are very dangerous areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u129	The situation in Syria is still very dangerous. The question to the cabinet to ask people to consciously go into that area, I find quite a lot. That's why I'm reacting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Van Ojik, also at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it is, because we have discussed this before in the AO. Suppose organisations already present in that area would themselves indicate their willingness to fetch and accompany those completely innocent children. Can the Dutch Government then provide support on request? So not active. I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u132	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr. Chairman. That is different from what is in the motion, but then too, the question is whether the Dutch government wants to actively support something in an area that is dangerous at the moment. That's a question to go along with. I think it would go a long way to asking people, as a Dutch government, to move actively into dangerous areas. So my answer to this motion is at least no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Van Ojik, any minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u135	I have, of course, heard that the Minister is dissuading this motion, but I am trying to find a solution by saying: what if organisations that are already there are called the Red Cross?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u136	Your question is clear and you have just received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yeah, well, then maybe I could ask the Minister if he'd like to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u138	I think he just gave it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u139	Sure. I also thought I should point out that, even if someone else's question comes but means "do you want the Dutch government..." because you always ask me the question "encourage others to enter that area?" Then my answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u140	I understand that Mr Van Ojik says: on his own initiative by organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u141	My question is another one. My question is: what if organisations were planning to pick up children? The motion asks the Minister for an active appeal. He doesn't want to. But I'm trying to find a different solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u142	But you'll get an answer to that, too. 'Cause you keep asking me something. So you ask me: will you encourage or support? It's still a dangerous area, so the answer remains no. Mr. Chairman. At the end of the questions and motions put to me, I would like to join with the many words of appreciation expressed by almost the entire Chamber to the men and women who are doing the work on our behalf. I had the pleasure of visiting Jordan and Iraq over the last few days and speaking with the people there, and also with the appreciation I have heard in the Chamber before. But it is very good to hear that support is also available today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you. The Minister of Defense has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the best thing for me to do is to go along with what Mr Blok has already said. He was just in Jordan. But I too would like to join in the warm words that have actually been spoken by everyone on the side of the Chamber about our men and women who do the work in sometimes very difficult circumstances. It is a good thing that we say that again here in this Chamber today. I, too, will, of course, pass that on to them. One specific question was asked to me when I looked at the situation surrounding the security of the Dutch military, Mr Sjoerdsma asked for it as a result of the Americans' decision. Indeed, as Mr Blok said, it is too early to draw conclusions on the consequences of the decision. We don't know exactly what that means. There was a vtc with Centcom at the beginning of the afternoon to talk about it in a coordinated manner. I think it is important to say, as Mr Van Helvert did, that, of course, ISIS has not yet been defeated in its entirety. It is true that very good work has been done, but they have not yet been defeated. This means that they still operate in in-search situations and can also come up again. Of course, that could have consequences for all the military who operate there. I think there are still several thousand ISIS fighters present in Syria, but also in Iraq, because it is about the article 100 letter Iraq that we are discussing. So we are certainly not yet done with ISIS and, of course, we are monitoring the situation very closely. I would like to say that we do not have Dutch soldiers in Syria. I think that's good to know. We only fly over Syria with the F-16s. We'll get it back on January 1st. The Chamber is aware of this, of course, as is stated in the letter. But the US still remains active. We monitor the security situation on a daily basis, even at the moment, and you can count on it. If there is any development in that, we will simply inform your Chamber with a letter. I think that is the best thing I can say about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u145	I would like to see that letter also address what I myself have just said about the effect of that announcement. The second question I would like to put is whether it is true that President Trump has already asked the Pentagon on 4 April 2018 to start preparing for withdrawal. I suppose that would have been shared with the Netherlands before, with allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u146	I don't know. I myself spoke in Canada two weeks ago with the special advisor of the Americans in this area. At that time he was not aware of the fact that they would withdraw, so in that sense I cannot confirm that message. But I'll take another look at that before the letter, so we'll know for sure. But in Canada, we have just talked to each other, with the core countries of the anti-ISIS coalition, about operating there. That was less than two weeks ago. I am convinced that the Pentagon was also somewhat surprised by this report, which was also, of course, unlucky. Mr. Chairman. Then the motions, because I think that's all that's left. On the motions on the items Nos. 640 and 641 I'll pass judgment. The motion in part No. 640 by Mrs Karabulut c.s. is about advocating an independent investigation within the coalition. As you know, at the request of the Chamber, I always pay attention to the investigation into CIVCAS, even when we speak in a coalition context. However, I would like to advise against this motion on behalf of the government, because it is simply being investigated by CENTCOM. We are also carrying out independent investigations; there I will get to the motion on item No. 641 to back. Moreover, this has just been mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma himself in his term, and we have a procedure for that, in which the prosecution is also involved. We think it is very carefully how that happens and we also have confidence in the procedure as it is. It is also being discussed with the Iraqi authorities. So I would have the motion in part no. Six hundred and forty-six. The same applies to the motion in part No. 641. At the time of withdrawal, too, I would like to say to Mr Van Ojik that I still think that the procedure is very careful. But one of the points we are so critical of is the fact that nothing should be traceable to our pilots. That's what this is about. As I indicated to you at the beginning of my term that ISIS has not yet been completely defeated, we should also advise against this motion, because there is still a danger that pilots will be visited by ISIS fighters. We have a good trial in this, in which the public prosecutor is also strongly involved. So I would also like to discourage this motion on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mervouw Karabulut, do you have a question about the motion in part No. 640, or on the motion in part No. 641?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u148	Let me confine myself to the motion in part No. 641, Chairman. There is simply a very great light between what the coalition reports and what human rights organisations as co-researchers on the ground report on the basis of civilian witnesses to civilian victims. That is also not surprising when we see the images of the totally destroyed cities, such as Mosul and Raqqa. I'm sure the Minister will have seen and followed that. Other countries do release the data on the date and location, so that organisations such as Airwars can check them too. This can contribute to transparency and to the view expressed by the Minister every time, of 'this is it, and this is sufficient'. But that control is not sufficient at the moment. And so do other countries, without endangering their people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u149	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u150	My question to the Minister is as follows. She says "not now." Can the Minister imagine that in the future there will be a moment where the data on the date and location of the Dutch deployment of F-16s in Iraq and Syria can be shared with Airwars?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u151	Of course, we have also had this debate in general consultation. Not now, I say indeed, because traceability is a really important point for us. We also have confidence in the procedure we conduct with each other and with the public prosecutor, a point just mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma. By the way, we have also become much more transparent. There is no misunderstanding about this, as Mrs Karabulut also thinks in our reports on the weekly operations. We are much more specific about what happened when there was a gun deployment. We make that visible on the Internet every week. Well, now isn't the time. I can't see into a glass ball when, but for now, the safety of our men and women is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u152	We're not asking for the names of men and women to be released, are we? Only the commitment, and this is also directed at those organisations that can link it to the information they get on the ground. Why do I think this is so important? The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development said that justice should ultimately be achieved for all victims; that the perpetrators should be tried and that the victims should be able to achieve their rights. This applies to IS and that applies to other warring groups in countries where war is being waged. But that also applies to ourselves, of course, precisely because we attach such great importance to it. Maybe the Minister can find a way to provide that protection. Again, I'm not asking for the names of the pilots, but I'm asking for data. Other countries do, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u153	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u154	The point is certainly clear to me. We have a good procedure for this, I say again. We'll report everything, you know that. There is an after-action report with us, the results of which are always made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Central Command is also investigating. I'm also reporting to the Chamber on what the D.A. did. We believe that, as a government, it is a good and correct procedure, which also looks very closely at the possible criminal aspects. Mr. Chairman. I stand by my judgment and I will certainly think further about Mrs Karabulut's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO on the Article 100 procedure. Thank you to the three rulers for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-8.u156	These motions will be voted on tonight. I'm suspending until 2:20 p.m.
