ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to raise the issue of the continuation of a previous written consultation of the Technical Advisory Committee on ammonia and livestock farming. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State in our midst. There were four Members who spoke with the request for speaking time during this VSO and the first is Mrs Lodders. She is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Two minutes' speaking time is really far too little for such a complicated dossier. I can see the Secretary of State nodding in agreement. This VSO is about huge amounts. It has given me some clarity on a number of questions, but I would very much appreciate it if the Chamber would, of course, deal with its own agenda if we could discuss this further. As far as I am concerned, this can be done if we have more clarity about the letter promised by the Minister of LNV on the whole ammonia dossier. Then you can meet me here again, Mr. Chairman. Measuring is knowing. I think that is a very important starting point when it comes to ammonia and other things. If you know what's going on, innovative solutions are needed to adapt barn systems so that there can be less gas emissions and more comfort for animals. I have made a lot of work visits over the past period and I have the impression that innovative companies, companies outside the established order, sometimes find it difficult to participate in the innovation of barn systems with their new concepts. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new techniques and innovative applications can further develop (current) housing systems in the area of sustainability such as reduced emissions of gases and improved animal comfort;]] [[Whereas new businesses such as start-ups and entrepreneurs or businesses operating in sectors other than livestock farming may also be interesting new players on the market for farmland concepts or applications;]] [[noting that these companies experience obstacles in testing housing concepts;]] [[calls on the government to identify the obstacles experienced by these companies;]] [[points out that all entrepreneurs from within and outside the sector should have an equal opportunity to test insights and concepts so that innovative and creative ideas can also be put in place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-202]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. To take the tension off for you, I say I have no motions. But I do have a few questions for the Secretary of State. There remains a lot of discussion about ammonia measurements in the atmosphere. The CDA Group wonders what influence the location of fixed measuring stations has when there is a livestock farm nearby. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. In addition, the CDA Group asks what period of time the international cooperation in VERA on measuring emissions of barn systems is going to produce results. And when will there be more internationally recognised housing systems for public health? Indeed, the reply states several times that clarity will come in the second half of 2018. I'm asking the Secretary of State if that's still the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Ouwehand, a member of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr President. As Mrs Lodders said, this is a complicated subject. It's actually about something very simple: of course animals produce, just like humans, manure and urine. Then you're stuck with ammonia. The more animals, the more ammonia. Ammonia is bad for nature, bad for our health. Less animals means less trouble. If you don't choose that solution, you're gonna sit down with all kinds of barn systems. You could still choose to do that, but I would ask this Secretary of State to reflect on the construction of new stables within this system, with a depreciation period. If we do not address the fact that we may have to keep fewer animals in the Netherlands, how about stables that are now being approved and built, perhaps with subsidies, and then have 15 years of depreciation? Don't we get in the way of fake sustainability, fake solutions and tiny little mess in the margins when we know the challenge is bigger? I would like an answer to that question. It is then striking that the focus of reducing ammonia emissions is only on human health quality. It is very important, but it is also about the animals themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the assessment of ammonia emissions in the stable is based solely on good air quality for humans;]] [[Whereas air quality in the stables is very poor, resulting in serious and structural animal welfare problems such as severe tightness, inflamed lung tissue, chronic cough and pneumonia in pigs;]] [[considers that animals also have the right to breathe healthy air;]] [[calls on the Government to apply an integrated approach to the housing assessment of ammonia emissions, taking full account of the importance of the animals for good air quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr President, in abundance: the outdoor air is usually healthier to breathe in for the animals than the air in the stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then we shall go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr De Groot, a member of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but a question. We now have this new system. It is good that we look more broadly than only at ammonia; also at smell and also at particulate matter. But basically, we're working on end-of-pipe measures. We have a stable system in which actually manure comes into a well, where the thick and the thin fraction of it gets together, I'll say it neatly. It'll create ammonia. We really need to go to business systems that are sustainable in themselves, where the manure is of good quality and where the whole system is assessed. In fact, we have to do some kind of cycle test instead of end or pipe with all the problems that there are in measuring these emissions. The question to the Secretary of State, but actually also to the Minister of LNV, is therefore: can we not even think about a system of business assessments in the case of stable assessments which are based more on the whole cycle and the quality that we want to achieve together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State, who's gathering her papers, and I'm gonna suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a pleasure to be here again. I was allowed to finish the year with you for the summer and the agenda works out so that I can kick off the year with you. I look forward to good cooperation again and hope to meet you here regularly. At least we start off well: two VAOs in a row, the first on indeed a very extensive and complicated subject. Mrs Lodders said that this cannot be understood in two minutes, but there are a number of important points that we are now passing by. Mrs Lodders said: whether you are an existing company or you are a new company with an innovative idea that can contribute to reducing animal emissions or comfort, we need to ensure that that kind of entrepreneur gets a chance and that the system is not a barrier to making use of good ideas. I agree. We have therefore already made the assessment process more transparent. RVO started this year to help applicants with a quickscan before submitting a full application, but I will have RVO check whether there are still obstacles to these innovators and to map them. I think that the ruling that the Chamber would make through Mrs Lodder's motion is right: you do not want that distinction to be unjustified. I can therefore leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	Nevertheless, an interruption by Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	It is of course nice at the first VSO after the summer recess to collect a "judge chamber" on a motion. Perhaps I could also suggest to the Secretary of State to include the Working Party on Staling Assessment, because, if I have read the answers correctly, the people from the field are in particular. Maybe they have signals, too. So I'd appreciate that. Thanks for the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	If we can find leads to make the system even better with each other, we certainly should not forget it, so I am happy to do so. Mr Geurts had asked a number of questions. First, he asked about the influence of fixed measuring stations when there is a livestock farm nearby. He is putting on the table a valid question. The responsibility for this lies primarily with the Minister of LNV, who will shortly be sending a cabinet response to the questions raised by the Permanent Committee on Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I can also make it clear that it is the planning that does not take so long. Mr Geurts has also asked in what area we can provide more internationally recognised barn systems and when these better barn systems will be introduced. There is international cooperation under the name VERA between Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands with the aim of establishing an international market for agricultural environmental technologies and housing systems. In recent months, the German Secretariat has completed a review of the main test protocols, including those for barn emissions, and will publish them in September. These in turn form the basis for a uniform test method, which is again the basis for the verification within VERA. Precise planning is, of course, difficult, because it is about international coordination. But our commitment is, of course, aimed at achieving this as soon as possible. Mrs Ouwehand had the question of whether you should take the depreciation period of stables with you when you think about a review of your agricultural policy. It seems logical to me to do so, but that is a somewhat broader debate than the discussion here about barn systems. I understand the point she raises and I think it would be something to discuss further in the discussions with the Minister for Agriculture on the future of agriculture. A comprehensive assessment is needed, because it is about animal welfare: that is the primary core of its motion in part No. 203, which it submits. I would ask that this motion be retained, because this too is actually a broader question. This also calls for consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture. I therefore ask her to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm willing to do that; let's start nicely on this first day. I understand from the words of the Secretary of State that she would like to discuss this motion with the Minister for Agriculture. If that's the case, I'd like to know when we'll get the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	Let me start off nicely, too. I'll do my best to get that done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	I'm holding the motion on for now, and if it takes too long, I'm standing here with a friendly rappel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	That will therefore be received kindly. We'll do our best, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u19	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (28973, No. 203). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr President, Mr De Groot quite rightly cut the point that you want everything you do to fit in with the larger picture of where you want to go. So I think he's right to make a point. Like a number of other points put forward by Members which relate to that larger whole of the future of agriculture, this too is primarily in the area of the Minister of LNV, but of course it also has a link with the circular economy. So I will discuss the request with my colleague from LNV, but I understand the point he is making. The direction he is looking for is one of consistency, and of course I can only endorse it. I hope I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Secretary of State. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-9.u22	The vote on the motion tabled will take place on Tuesday. I shall suspend for a few moments, after which we shall proceed with the debate on the VAO ERTMS/Rail Safety.
